Answering the
Questions that
mAtter
Annual Report 2007Five Questions.
Five Answers.
One mission.
Question How are you adapting your business model to
one succeed in the current healthcare environment?
Answer page 4
Question Why do you have a Consumer Healthcare
two business? Answer page 5
Question Share prices in the sector haven’t performed well,
three what is the outlook for GSK? Answer page 6
Question How is your research and development pipeline
four performing? Answer page 7
Question What are you doing to improve healthcare in the
five developing world? Answer page 8
Website
GlaxoSmithKline’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information on the Group. Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this
Annual Report.
Notice regarding limitations on Director liability under English Law
Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the Report of the Directors contained
on pages 9 to 86, under English law the Directors would be liable to the company (but not to any third party) if the Report of the Directors contains errors as a result of
recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
Report of the Directors
Pages 9 to 86 inclusive consist of a Report of the Directors that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and the
liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written information released, or oral statements
made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group’s current expectations or
forecasts of future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’,
‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial
performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and
anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results. The Group undertakes no obligation to update
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document,
could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under
‘Risk factors’ on pages 50 to 53 of this Annual Report.Chairman and CEO summary 3
Mission
Five questions, five answers 4
Our global quest is to improve the quality
of human life by enabling people to do
more, feel better and live longer. Report of the Directors
Business review 9
Our Spirit
Corporate governance 59
We undertake our quest with the
Remuneration Report 71
enthusiasm of entrepreneurs, excited by
the constant search for innovation. We value
performance achieved with integrity. We
will attain success as a world class global
leader with each and every one of our
people contributing with passion and an
unmatched sense of urgency.
Financial statements
Directors’ statements of responsibility 88
Independent Auditors’ report 89
Consolidated income statement 90
Consolidated balance sheet 91
Consolidated cash flow statement 92
Consolidated statement of recognised income
and expense 93
Notes to the financial statements 94
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc 159
Investor information
Financial record 166
Shareholder information 175
Taxation information for shareholders 179
Glossary of terms 180
Index Inside back cover
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 1
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
ContentsAnnual Report and Annual Review History and development of the company
This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on
ended 31st December 2007, prepared in accordance with United 6th December 1999 under English law. Its shares are listed on the
Kingdom requirements. It was approved by the Board of Directors on London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. On
27th February 2008 and published on 28th February 2008. 27th December 2000 the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc
and SmithKline Beecham plc, both English public limited companies,
A summary report on the year, the Annual Review 2007, which is
by way of a scheme of arrangem ent for the merger of the two
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom requirements and
companies. Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were
intended for the investor not needing the full detail of the Annual
major global healthcare businesses.
Report, is produced as a separate document. It includes the joint
statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, a GSK plc and its subsidiary and associated undertakings constitute a
summary review of operations, summary financial statements major global healthcare group engaged in the creation, discovery,
and a summary remuneration report. The Annual Review is issued development, manufacture and marketing of pharma ceutical and
to all shareholders. The Annual Report is issued to shareholders consumer health-related products.
who have elected to receive it. Both documents are available on
GSK has its corporate head office in London. It also has operational
GSK’s website.
headquarters in Philadelphia and Research Triangle Park, USA, and
In this Report ‘GlaxoSmithKline’, the ‘Group’ or ‘GSK’ means operations in some 114 countries, with products sold in over 140
GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings; the ‘company’ countries. The principal research and development (R&D) facilities
means GlaxoS mithKline plc; ‘GlaxoSmithKline share’ means an are in the UK, the USA, Belgium, Italy, Japan and Spain. Products are
Ordinary share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p; an American Depositary currently manufactured in some 38 countries.
Share (ADS) represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
The major markets for the Group’s products are the USA, France,
Business performance Japan, the UK, Italy, Germany and Spain.
Business performance, which is a supplemental non-IFRS measure,
Business segments
is the primary performance measure used by management and is
GSK operates principally in two industry segments:
presented after excluding costs relating to the new Operational
Excellence programme, which commenced in October 2007. • Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines)
Management believes that exclusion of these items provides a better
• C onsumer Healthcare (over-the-counter medicines, oral care and
reflection of the way in which the business is managed and gives a
nutritional healthcare).
more useful indication of the underlying performance of the Group.
This information, which is provided in addition to the total results Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are
prepared under IFRS, is given to assist shareholders to gain a clearer trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline
understanding of the underlying performance of the business and or associated companies, with the exception of Baycol and Levitra,
to increase comparability for the periods presented. trademarks of Bayer, Boniva/Bonviva, a trademark of Roche, Citrucel,
a trademark of Merrell Pharmaceuticals, Entereg, a trademark of
Exchange rates
Adolor Corporation in the USA, Hepsera, a trademark of Gilead
The Group operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs
Sciences in some countries including the USA, HuMax-CD20 a
costs in many currencies. The results of the Group, as reported in
trademark of Genmab, Integrilin, a trademark of Millennium
Sterling, are affected by movements in exchange rates between
Pharmaceuticals, Lymphostat B, a trademark of Human Genome
Sterling and other currencies. Average exchange rates prevailing
Sciences, Nicoderm, a trademark of Sanofi-Aventis, Pfizer Canada,
during the period are used to translate the results and cash flows
Elan, Novartis, Merrell or GlaxoSmithKline, and Vesicare, a trademark
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into Sterling.
of Astellas Pharmaceuticals in many countries and of Yamanouchi
Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of those entities.
Pharmaceuticals in certain countries, all of which are used in certain
The currencies which most influence these translations are the US
countries under licence by the Group.
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s practice
to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to
determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had remained
unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER% represents
growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual
exchange rates.
All commentaries in this Report are presented in terms of CER unless
otherwise stated.
2 I GSK Annual Report 2007Review of 2007
Chairman and CEO summary
It is natural that our stakeholders want to know how we are facing Seeing results from our investment in R&D
the challenges of the fast-changing healthcare environment, and Last year, GSK received a record 10 product approvals and filed 10
how we plan to convert our strategic direction into profitable results, product applications. New products launched during 2007 were
which should return value to our shareholders. Tykerb, for breast cancer, Veramyst/Avamys, for allergic rhinitis,
Altabax/Altargo for the treatment of skin infections and Cervarix our
Our 2007 Annual Report aims to answer these questions and
vaccine for the prevention of cervical cancer.
demonstrate that our strategic focus on research and development,
which is delivering improved pipeline productivity, will enhance We currently have 13 new product opportunities filed with
returns to shareholders over the long-term. The success of our regulators and commenced nine new phase III clinical development
Consumer Healthcare business and the strong performance of many programmes in 2007. There are at present 34 key assets in the phase
key pharmaceutical and vaccine products in our current portfolio III or registration stages.
are also providing strong contributions to growth and helped us to
Leading the way
deliver 2007 business performance earnings per share (EPS) growth
Although the future remains challenging, GSK is determined to
of 10% at constant exchange rates (CER); results that were at the
remain an industry leader across many fronts; not only through
high end of our guidance.
our pipeline progress but also through efficiency initiatives and by
We also continue to balance the needs of our shareholders with our fulfilling our responsibilities to communities worldwide.
commitment to improve healthcare in communities across the world –
In October we announced a significant new £1.5 billion Operational
we feel this is not just the right thing to do; but the only thing to do.
Excellence programme to improve operational efficiency and
Financial performance and outlook productivity. We expect this to deliver annual pre-tax savings of £700
Total sales were £22.7 billion, up 2%, and business performance EPS million by 2010.
was 99.1p, up 10% from 2006. The Board declared a dividend for
During 2007, our global community investment contributions
the year of 53p, up from 48p in 2006.
continued to deliver a positive influence on the lives of people
Pharmaceutical turnover was level at £19.2 billion, impacted by worldwide and we are proud to play our part to the full.
generic competition in the USA and a decrease of 22% in Avandia
We are grateful to our dedicated people for their efforts and passion
sales globally. Among other key products, sales of Seretide/Advair for
which contributed so much to our success. We also extend the company’s
asthma and COPD rose by 10% to £3.5 billion while those for Lamictal,
thanks to you, our shareholders, for your continuing support.
for epilepsy and bipolar disorder, increased by 18% to £1.1 billion. The
Vaccines business grew by 20% to £2 billion. Consumer Healthcare There have been changes in the management team in the past
generated strong sales growth, up 14% to almost £3.5 billion. 12 months including the departure of David Stout, President of
Pharmaceutical Operations, and Rupert Bondy, Senior Vice President
2007 also saw the launch of the largest share buy-back in the industry;
and General Counsel who will be leaving GSK at the end of March
share repurchases of £2.5 billion were made in 2007 under this
2008. We thank them both for their contribution to GSK over many
programme and a further £6 billion are expected in 2008. We expect to
years. We also welcomed Professor Sir Roy Anderson to the Board
repurchase £12 billion of shares under this programme by mid-2009.
as a Non-Executive Director and Andrew Witty and Chris Viehbacher
In May 2007, an article in the New England Journal of Medicine as Executive Directors.
suggested that there may be cardiovascular risk associated with
Overall, we are confident in GSK’s strength as an organisation and
Avandia, our second largest product. This was followed by intense
that we have the expertise to deal with the changing environment
media coverage and despite our efforts to explain the entirety of
the data, which did not confirm this risk, sales of Avandia dropped we face.
significantly in the second half of 2007.
Thank you again for your support.
The decline in Avandia sales, together with increased generic competition
in the USA, will adversely impact our earnings in 2008 and we expect
a mid-single digit percentage decline in business performance EPS, at
CER. Looking ahead we remain confident in GSK’s future. Our fast-
growing vaccines business, the resurgence of our Consumer Healthcare
division and the strong performance of key pharmaceutical products are
all providing contributions to growth. The momentum of our late-stage
pipeline continues to enhance our business and is producing a significant Sir Christopher Gent JP Garnier
renewal of our product line. Chairman Chief Executive Officer
Message from Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman
The AGM sees the retirement of our Chief Executive Officer JP Thank you, JP, on behalf of the Board and the stakeholders of GSK.
Garnier, who has served GSK with great style and distinction since
Andrew Witty becomes our new Chief Executive Officer at the
the merger in December 2000. JP brought wit, wisdom and hugely
AGM. Having worked for us since 1985, Andrew is experienced,
impressive business acumen to his role. He was directly responsible
enthusiastic and well-respected both inside GSK and beyond. I have
for many of the innovations of the last seven years, including the
no doubt that he will ensure that GSK fulfils its rich potential, and I
introduction of our Centres of Excellence in Drug Discovery, which
look forward to working alongside him.
have transformed the way we approach R&D, and driving a renewed
focus and energy behind our vaccines business.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 3We consult our stakeholders in many ways. From shareholders, patients, governments,
non-government organisations, payers and employees we hear many different questions.
For this year’s Annual Report we have focused on five key questions that lie at the heart
of the business.
Q
Summary
Our markets are changing and we are evolving
rapidly to reflect the new environment. We
are well-positioned, relative to our peers.
A • A broad-based, geographically-diverse and well-
balanced business.
• I mproved pipeline productivity.
• I nnovative programmes to reduce expenditure
How are you adapting your and work more closely with customers.
business model to succeed • Positioned to take advantage of opportunities in
the growing healthcare economies.
in the current healthcare
environment?
Reducing expenditure
Cost remains a major issue for our customers because the demand for
Diversity and balance healthcare continues to increase, driven by ageing populations and
We operate in a fast-changing market from both a regulatory and rising expectations. We are committed to working with governments
payer perspective. Regulators are becoming increasingly risk conscious to reduce total healthcare costs and to lowering our own expenditure
and payers more cost conscious. It is imperative that pharmaceutical so that we operate more efficiently and profitably in a lower priced
companies, including GSK, modernise and evolve to reflect these environment – enabling us to continue our investment in R&D.
market changes.
At the same time, we are adopting a more flexible and creative
As we move forward into this changing environment, we are well- approach to product pricing. We are alert to opportunities to share
positioned, relative to our peers. Why? Because we are a broad-based, risk with customers as a means of demonstrating that we have great
geographically-diverse and well-balanced Group encompassing belief in our medicines – and that we only expect to be rewarded when
Pharmaceuticals, vaccines and Consumer Healthcare. our medicines deliver the anticipated benefits.
Through the intellectual property system, we have a relatively short patent Our Operational Excellence programmes, which are an important part
exclusivity for traditional small molecule chemical pharmaceuticals. of our strategy, mean we are improving efficiency year-on-year. We
However, Biological Medicines, vaccines and Consumer Healthcare are also working hard to lower the cost of developing products and
products generally have a significantly longer product life cycle. Our have already outsourced some areas of our business to lower-cost
presence in all these sectors will continue to grow and enables us to countries. We will continue to assess and capture other opportunities
better balance risk and sustain growth. to reduce costs.
Growing the pipeline Seizing global opportunities
In recent years, our pipeline has expanded and flowed more quickly Globalisation is an increasingly important factor in the business
than ever before. Seven years ago we had relatively few products in our landscape. In the past, we have derived most of our growth from the
late-stage pipeline. Today we have 157 projects in clinical development, established economies of the USA, Europe and Japan. Countries such
of which 118 are NCEs or new vaccines; this includes 34 key assets in as Brazil, Russia, India and China – often known as the BRIC markets
late stage development. – have large populations. They are increasingly able to afford good
quality healthcare, opening up significant new markets which will be
This is a significant transformation, driven largely by changes we have
important future growth areas for GSK.
made to both our research and development (R&D) ‘hardware’ and
‘software’. We have radically changed the R&D infrastructure, breaking Investing in our people
down the traditional big bureaucratic pharma model into R&D Centres We will only reach our potential through the support and talent of
of Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDDs). At the same time, we are highly motivated people. Our ambition is to be the place where great
evolving and adapting our culture, helping our talented people to people apply their energy and passion to make a difference in the
improve the quality of our science and management. world. Their skills and intellect are key components in the successful
implementation of our strategy. During 2007 we continued to invest in
We will continue to ensure that we are creating new medicines
recruiting and training the best scientists and other professionals.
targeted at unmet medical need, and we will focus on developing these
medicines in a way that allows regulators to make a clear assessment
about the relative risks and benefits.
4 I GSK Annual Report 2007Q
Summary
Our Consumer Healthcare business is a
key part of GSK. It is a profitable, logical,
complement to our Pharmaceutical operation
A with a powerful portfolio and a healthy
pipeline.
• O utstanding performance in 2007, with double-
digit sales growth.
Why do you have a Consumer • E xcellent prospects, particularly in developing
economies.
Healthcare business?
• O pportunity to share expertise and resources
across the two businesses.
A healthy performance
Consumer Healthcare is an important business to us. Not only does • Steady, long-term growth helps balance the
it provide an excellent balance with our Pharmaceuticals operation, it Pharmaceutical business.
is also a thriving business in its own right which is delivering a strong
performance for shareholders.
Consumer Healthcare has shown significant acceleration in top line
Sharing strengths
performance, with sales growth up 14% in 2007. It has a powerful
The Consumer Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals businesses are
portfolio that includes Lucozade, Sensodyne, Panadol, Horlicks and
not stand alone entities, but are complementary and synergistic
Aquafresh, a brand which has benefited from investment and the
in a number of important areas. They are both backed by science
launch of new brand extensions. 2007 also saw the successful
endorsed strategies and a focus on R&D.
US launch of alli, the first over-the-counter (OTC) weight loss aid
approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which is There is a growing trend worldwide for patients to manage their
currently being reviewed by European regulatory authorities. own healthcare, choosing OTC products, rather than relying on
Through our Consumer Healthcare business, and its expertise in a prescription – a behaviour in which our Consumer Healthcare
sales and marketing, we are well placed to be the partner of choice professionals are richly experienced. We are able to draw on these
for ‘switch’ products, bringing them from the prescription to the skills and knowledge in our Pharmaceutical business and share
OTC market. costs and resources. We also share expertise and resources in other
areas, such as regulatory matters, R&D, marketing, distribution and
Top five Consumer Healthcare products by turnover 2007
procurement.
Products Turnover
Getting the balance right
2007
£m The Pharmaceuticals business operates in a tough climate. Increased
legislation, cautious regulatory regimes and pricing pressures are
Lucozade 347
among the key challenges that face any pharmaceutical company.
Aquafresh 308
At the same time, the patent framework for pharmaceutical products
Sensodyne 293
tends to result in a relatively short life cycle for even the most
Panadol 262
successful treatments.
Horlicks 174
In contrast, our Consumer Healthcare business offers long-term,
Capitalising on long-term potential steady cash flow. A broad portfolio of pharmaceutical and OTC
Global healthcare markets are in a state of change. For example, there products can help mitigate the impact of losses to generics and help
is an increasing trend for governments to cut state healthcare costs by smooth the more volatile nature of the pharmaceutical markets.
influencing a switch from prescription to generic or OTC products.
Looking ahead, healthcare is becoming more consumer-centred.
People expect to be able to access medical knowledge and to
influence their own treatments. For many, OTC products are their
first destination for everyday healthcare.
We expect that the highest rates of growth for all healthcare
businesses will be driven by the developing, emerging economies.
OTC is the foundation of healthcare in these countries. In China, for
example, OTC accounts for 36% of drug expenditure, compared to
8% in North America and 10% in Western Europe.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 5Q
Summary
To ensure that we remain an industry leader,
we are addressing the issues which face the
pharmaceutical sector.
A
• Investment to achieve industry leading R&D
productivity.
• A new £1.5 billion Operational Excellence
programme.
Share prices in the sector
• A 10% increase in the dividend paid to our
haven’t performed well, shareholders for 2007.
• T he largest share buy-back programme in the
what is the outlook for GSK?
industry.
Sector challenges • A ttracting and retaining the best employees.
After many years of sustained value creation for shareholders, the
pharmaceutical sector has suffered a de-rating since the beginning of
2001. The main factor behind the de-rating is that R&D productivity,
Taking action to create long-term value
which is integral to the growth of the pharmaceutical industry, has
The Board and management continually review GSK’s business strategy
declined. Share price valuations in the past also included more value for
and the external environment with a view to achieving growth on a
the longer-term potential of R&D pipelines than is currently the case.
sustainable basis.
At the same time, the level of generic competition has intensified.
Our industry has a long-term investment cycle, driven primarily by the
GSK has been able to withstand this pressure better than many of our
time it takes to develop a new pharmaceutical product – at least 10
peers because of the broad nature of our product line, a flow of new
years. The decisions taken over the last seven years that have improved
products from our pipeline and the greater protection we experience
R&D productivity at GSK, will still take time to have a major impact on
in our vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses.
our revenues. However, as investors become more confident in our
In fact every year since the merger at the end of 2000 we have delivered strategy and key pipeline products make it to the market, this will begin
increased sales, at CER, despite challenging market conditions. In to be factored into our share price.
financial terms, over the same period, total returns to shareholders
At the same time, we are very focused on taking action to enhance
for GSK’s peer group were down 29%. The total return to GSK
returns for shareholders by accelerating our efficiency programmes
shareholders over this period was down 15%, above the performance
and returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share buy-
of the peer group.
backs. The Board approved a 10% increase in its dividend for 2007
2007 – the Avandia factor and in July, GSK announced the largest share buy-back programme
In 2007 GSK’s share price fell by 5% compared to an increase in the in the industry.
FTSE 100 index of 4%. That was disappointing for our investors, a
After the third quarter, we announced a significant new £1.5 billion
significant number of whom are also our employees.
Operational Excellence programme to improve the efficiency and
We started 2007 strongly and achieved several important milestones productivity of our operations. This is expected to deliver annual savings
including the launches of Tykerb and the FDA approval of alli. In of up to £700 million by 2010.
the first quarter, we beat expectations and delivered EPS growth
Reducing costs does not mean cutting down on talent. GSK is respected
of 14%. As the market received this positive news our share price
worldwide as a Group where the best people can do their best work
outperformed most of our peers. Then, in May 2007, an article in the
and we continue to attract, retain and reward the brightest employees
New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) suggested that there may
from sales teams on the front line to the scientists who are at the
be cardiovascular risk associated with Avandia, our second largest
forefront of discovering new therapies.
product. This was followed by intense media coverage and despite
our efforts to explain the entirety of the data, which did not confirm
this risk, doctors were reluctant to prescribe Avandia for new patients
without further FDA guidance.
Sales of Avandia dropped significantly and this had a negative impact
on our share price. Following clarification from the FDA in October
2007, we now have a new approved label and can move ahead with
more clarity.
6 I GSK Annual Report 2007Q
Summary
This has been a good year for our R&D team.
A number of important products and potential
products moved through our pipeline and we
A achieved several important objectives.
• 3 4 key assets in phase III/registration.
• T hree new chemical entities approved, and one
new vaccine.
How is your research
• 1 0 new product opportunities filed with
and development pipeline regulators.
performing? • N ine new phase III clinical development
programmes commenced.
The best year for pharmaceutical R&D since the merger • T hree late-stage development programmes
2007 saw GSK’s best year for R&D since the Group was formed in in-licensed.
2000. We have undoubtedly made great strides in the last seven
years – but there remains more to achieve and more benefits which
we can look forward to as our investment in the pipeline delivers.
In October 2007 we also received encouraging safety and efficacy
During the year, three new chemical entities and one new vaccine
data with our vaccine to protect against malaria, which is currently
were approved; Veramyst for allergic rhinitis, Tykerb for breast cancer,
in phase II development. These results have given us the confidence
Altabax for skin infections and Cervarix to prevent cervical cancer.
to move into large scale phase III trials which are due to begin in the
We have progressed a range of products through the pipeline, second half of 2008.
positioning us well for the future. A total of nine new phase III
Adapting to the changing environment
programmes started. These are the large scale trials where we seek
We are responding in many ways to the challenges of R&D
to ascertain safety and also to prove unequivocally the efficacy of the
productivity that are faced by companies in the pharmaceutical
medicines before submitting them for approval.
sector. Our network of CEDDs focus skills and resources on targeted
Our initiative to in-license potential treatments continued. We disease areas. The CEDDs create the spirit of a small R&D-led team
brought three new late-stage programmes into GSK and moved a within a very large pharmaceutical organisation and allow us to be
further four into late-stage development, improving our ability to more nimble, and therefore productive, in our approach. In 2007 we
reload and sustain the pipeline we need. opened two new CEDDs, in Immuno-inflammation and Infectious
Diseases, both of which are headed by world-class scientists.
By its nature, R&D carries inherent risk. We were pleased that
2007 was a year of few disappointments, with the most notable An important element of our strategy is to access a broad diversity of
termination being that of odiparcil, to prevent blood clots. A number thinking. One way we do this is by partnering with academic centres
of product line extensions were delayed which we had hoped would worldwide. In 2007, we opened our new clinical imaging centre at
gain final regulatory approval in the USA, including Lamictal XR and Hammersmith Hospital in London, where research is concentrating
Requip XL. on cancer, stroke and neurological diseases. A second key strand is
to make sure that GSK is well-represented wherever the most cutting
Promising progress in vaccines
edge science is practised. In 2007, we opened a new fully integrated
We have a large and promising vaccines pipeline, with 24 projects in
research institute in China.
clinical development, including seven in phase III trials and another
five filed with regulators. GSK has a very active external partnering strategy. In 2007 we entered
into nine external product licensing collaborations, together with a
Cervarix, our HPV vaccine to prevent cervical cancer, has now been
number of other partnerships to develop further and utilise novel
approved in over 50 countries across the world. Further licensing
science and technologies in pharmaceutical and biological R&D.
applications have been submitted in 28 countries, including Japan.
In the USA, the FDA issued a Complete Response letter for Cervarix We continue to review actively our therapeutic area strategies to
in December 2007. We plan to submit our response to this letter in examine all the areas in which we have a presence and prioritise
the second quarter of 2008 and continue our discussions regarding those that demonstrate the most potential. We aim to derive 20%
the application with the FDA. of our pipeline from biopharmaceuticals by 2015 – it is around 6%
at present. We have also increased our investment in neurosciences,
While Cervarix is perhaps our most high-profile vaccine, several other
vaccines and oncology research.
vaccines made progress during 2007. Rotarix for rotavirus, a disease
which causes severe childhood diarrhoea, was filed in the USA in Whilst it remains a tough challenge to discover medicines and vaccines,
June, following approval in over 100 countries worldwide. We also the level of understanding, scientific advancement and breakthrough
filed Synflorix, a vaccine to prevent pneumococcal disease, in Europe is unprecedented. We believe that at GSK the opportunity to discover
and International markets at the end of the year. Our meningitis new products is now greater than ever.
vaccine Men-ACWY and our innovative Mage-A3 vaccine for the
treatment of non small cell lung cancer both entered phase III trials
in 2007.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 7Q
Summary
GSK is an industry leader in providing access
to medicines in the developing world.
• Preferential pricing ensures that the poorest can
A
still benefit from our treatments and vaccines.
• O ur investment in R&D is helping to build a
rich pipeline which reflects the needs of the
developing world.
What are you doing to
• Innovative partnerships have created breakthroughs
improve healthcare in the in treatments and vaccines for neglected diseases.
• Community investment activities help promote
developing world?
education and better healthcare.
Getting the balance right • G SK is also actively involved in supporting
For a commercial organisation like GSK, there is a balance to be patients in the developed world - see page 23.
struck between the return to shareholders and our desire to
improve access to our products, particularly for patients in the
Preferential pricing
developing world.
We have provided our vaccines at preferential prices to the developing
HIV/AIDS has both worsened the healthcare crisis in sub-Saharan world for over 20 years.
Africa and brought it worldwide attention. Poverty means that too
Our HIV/AIDS and malaria treatments are offered at not-for-profit
many are denied education or die from malnutrition and a lack of
prices to public sector customers and not-for-profit organisations
clean drinking water. The ability of a pharmaceutical company to
in all the Least Developed Countries and all of sub-Saharan Africa.
address the healthcare problems of the developing world must be
Including Global Fund and other eligible programmes, our not-for-
seen in this broader context.
profit prices are now available in around 80 countries.
Where we offer our anti-retrovirals (ARVs) and anti-malarials at
Innovative partnerships
not-for-profit prices, this is in addition to our significant community
For products with no viable commercial market, such as truly neglected
investment activities. Our Corporate Responsibility Report has more
tropical diseases, we work in public-private partnerships. We provide
details of our efforts to improve access to medicines, in both the
the R&D, technology, manufacturing and distribution expertise while
developing and the developed world, and information about our
academic institutions provide research and disease area knowledge.
other community partnership programmes.
Public sector partners, governments, or organisations such as
Do more, feel better, live longer the Gates Foundation, help fund the project and assist in getting
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria are killing around 20,000 people the medicines to the people who need them. Funds are usually
every day. We believe that playing our part is not just the right thing channelled through organisations such as the TB Alliance and the
to do; it is the only thing to do. Malaria Vaccine Initiative.
We contribute through action in four areas: preferential pricing These programmes have transformed R&D in neglected diseases. For
of our ARVs, anti-malarials and vaccines; investing in R&D into example, the pipeline for malaria treatments is now the richest the
diseases of the developing world; community investment activities world has ever seen.
and partnerships that foster effective healthcare; and through
We have granted voluntary licenses to allow generic manufacturers
innovative partnerships.
to produce their own versions of our key ARVs for HIV/AIDS. There
Sometimes, the healthcare crisis in Africa is used by some pressure is now global capacity to manufacture enough ARVs to meet the
groups to attack our industry or the intellectual property (IP) system. world’s needs – the challenge is to get the medicines to the people
But it is important to understand that we rely on IP to generate the who need them.
funds which enabled us to invest £3.2 billion in R&D during 2007.
Community investment
We will continue to stress this to those who would like to see the IP
January 2008 saw the 10th anniversary of our commitment to
environment weakened.
eliminate lymphatic filariasis (LF), also known as elephantiasis. To date
Without investment in R&D we will not see the much-needed new we have reached over 130 million people, and 24 million children
medicines and vaccines. This requires a delicate balance – which we have been born in areas that are now LF-free.
believe we achieve - to the benefit of shareholders and patients the
We also currently support significant HIV/AIDS education
world over.
programmes in Africa, India, China and Mexico. Each programme
faces different challenges, but the importance of education among
people marginalised by society is common to all.
Further community investment programmes include Personal Hygiene
and Sanitation Education (PHASE), which focuses on how the simple
act of washing hands can prevent diarrhoeal disease and save lives.
8 I GSK Annual Report 2007Business review
The business review discusses GSK’s financial and non-financial
activities, resources, developments and performance during 2007
and outlines the trends and factors which are likely to affect its
future development.
2007 performance overview 10
Financial trends and ratios 12
Optimising the performance of marketed products 13
Delivering the product pipeline for patients 14
Being the best place for the best people to do their best work 22
Improving access to medicines 23
Corporate responsibility and community investment 24
Global manufacturing and supply 26
Regulatory environment 27
World market 31
Products and competition 32
Financial review 2007 36
Financial position and resources 45
Outlook and risk factors 50
Financial review 2006 54
Accounting presentation
This report is prepared in accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union and also
with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates based
on the most recent data from independent external sources, and where
appropriate, are valued in Sterling at relevant exchange rates. Figures
quoted for product market share reflect sales by GSK and licensees.
Business performance
Business performance, which is a supplemental non-IFRS measure,
is the primary performance measure used by management and
is presented after excluding costs relating to the new Operational
Excellence programme, which commenced in October 2007.
Management believes that exclusion of these items provides a better
reflection of the way in which the business is managed and gives a
more useful indication of the underlying performance of the Group.
This information, which is provided in addition to the total results
prepared under IFRS, is given to assist shareholders to gain a clearer
understanding of the underlying performance of the business and to
increase comparability for the periods presented.
Exchange rates
The Group operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs
costs in many currencies. The results of the Group, as reported in
Sterling, are affected by movements in exchange rates between
Sterling and other currencies. Average exchange rates prevailing
during the period are used to translate the results and cash flows
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into Sterling.
Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of those entities.
The currencies which most influence these translations are the US
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s practice
to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to
determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had remained
unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER% represents
growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual
exchange rates.
All commentaries in this Report are presented in terms of CER unless
otherwise stated.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 9
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
weiver
ssenisuB2007 performance overview
GSK’s performance is driven by a number of important strategies
Key performance indicators
Turnover, business performance* earnings per
share growth and total shareholder return
Strategies
Turnover Optimising the performance of marketed products
£bn CER growth % Both the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare businesses
focus on ways to improve the return from the Group’s intellectual
property by maximising sales of key products. 2007 22.7 2
GSK’s activities include:
2006 23.2 9 • achieving worldwide sales force excellence
• achieving Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare
2005 21.7 7 marketing excellence
• maintaining the highest ethical standards
• improving the cost-effectiveness of operations
Business performance* earnings per share
pence CER growth %
2007 99.1 10
2006 95.5 19 Delivering the product pipeline for patients
GSK aims to create the best product pipeline in the industry for the
2005 82.6 18 benefit of society. This includes developing a focused strategy to
support the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds
from launch as prescription medicines through to potentially
becoming over-the-counter products.
Total shareholder return GSK measures R&D productivity by the number and level of
innovation of the products it creates, and by the ability to address
unmet patient needs.
175
150
Being the best place for the best people to do their
125
best work
100 GSK is committed to creating the best place for the best people to
75 do their best work by:
01/01/05 31/12/05 31/12/06 31/12/07 • recruiting and developing the best people in the industry
GSK Total Return Index GSK Pharma Peers Return Index • supporting a culture of high reward for high performance
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
• ensuring good communication and employee involvement
• maintaining a diverse and healthy workforce
Share price
Improving access to medicines
£ US$
GSK is finding innovative ways to bring medicines, vaccines and
16 65
health education to patients in all countries, including those
15 60 suffering from epidemics and neglected diseases.
14 55
13 50
12 45 Maximising total shareholder return (TSR)
GSK continues to work to maximise TSR through EPS growth,
11 40
dividend increases and share repurchases.
01/01/05 31/12/05 31/12/06 31/12/07
UK share price (£) US ADR price (US$)
At 22 February 2008, the share price was £11.10/$44.20 per ADR
* The calculation of business performance, a supplemental non-IFRS measure, is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
10 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
weivrevo
ecnamrofrep
7002Key developments in 2007
• Group turnover was £22.7 billion, up 2% at constant exchange rates compared with 2006
• Top ten Pharmaceutical products:
Seretide/Advair £3,499 million, up 10% Imigran/Imitrex £685 million, up 3%
Vaccines products £1,993 million, up 20% Flixotide/Flovent £621 million, down 1%
Avandia products £1,219 million, down 22% Coreg £587 million, down 18%
Lamictal £1,097 million, up 18% Seroxat/Paxil £553 million, down 6%
Valtrex £934 million, up 18% Augmentin £530 million, down 6%
• Other key pharmaceutical growth drivers, Arixtra, Avodart, Boniva and Requip delivered combined sales of £892 million (up 47%)
• Top five Consumer Healthcare products:
Lucozade £347 million, up 16% Panadol £262 million, up 14%
Aquafresh £308 million, up 12% Horlicks £174 million, up 12%
Sensodyne £293 million, up 16%
• The launch of alli in the USA in June was very successful, with sales of £150 million achieved
• Business performance operating margin improved by 1.3 percentage points to 34.9% of turnover
More details on page 13.
• In February 2008, GSK had 157 pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in clinical development, compared with 158 in
February 2007
• 34 major product opportunities were in phase III development or registration, including:
elesclomol (metastatic melanoma) Promacta (thrombocytopenia)
Entereg (post-operative ileus) Rezonic (chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting)
H5N1 (pandemic flu vaccine) Synflorix (S. pneumonia and non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae)
ofatumumab (rheumatoid arthritis) Tykerb + Armala (inflammatory breast cancer)
• Late stage projects terminated included odiparcil for prevention of blood clots
More details on page 14.
• The Group carries out a global leadership survey of over 10,000 managers every two years
• The last survey in 2006 showed a strong commitment to performance with integrity
• Management has been working since then on addressing the areas for improvement
• The Group is committed to encouraging diversity amongst its employees and in 2007 37% of the global management population
was female (2006 – 36%)
More details on page 22.
• Global community investment was valued at £282 million, 3.8% of total profit before tax
• The lymphatic filariasis elimination programme continued with another 150 million albendazole treatments donated, making
almost 750 million treatments in total
• GSK shipped 13 million Combivir tablets and nearly 72 million Epivir tablets to developing countries at not-for-profit prices.
Approximately 183 million tablets were supplied by generic manufacturers licensed by GSK
• Other international humanitarian product donations totalled £16 million More details on page 23.
• Business performance EPS was 99.1p, up 10% CER
• Total EPS was 94.4p, up 5% CER
• Dividend declared for 2007 of 53p, up 10%
• A new share buy-back programme of £12 billion over two years was announced in July, of which £2.5 billion was spent in 2007
and a further £6 billion is expected in 2008
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 11
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
weivrevo
ecnamrofrep
7002Financial trends and ratios
Total results 2007 Growth* 2006 Growth* 2005
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 19,233 – (4) 20,078 9 8 18,661
– Consumer Healthcare 3,483 14 11 3,147 6 5 2,999
Total turnover 22,716 2 (2) 23,225 9 7 21,660
Cost of sales (5,317) 8 6 (5,010) 6 5 (4,764)
Selling, general and administration (6,954) – (4) (7,257) – – (7,250)
Research and development (3,327) (1) (4) (3,457) 11 10 (3,136)
Other operating income 475 307 364
Operating profit 7,593 3 (3) 7,808 17 14 6,874
Profit before taxation 7,452 2 (4) 7,799 19 16 6,732
Profit after taxation for the year 5,310 3 (3) 5,498 17 14 4,816
Profit attributable to minority interests 96 109 127
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,214 5,389 4,689
Basic earnings per share (pence) 94.4p 5 (1) 95.5p 19 16 82.6p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 93.7p 94.5p 82.0p
Business performance results
Turnover 22,716 2 (2) 23,225 9 7 21,660
Cost of sales (5,206) 6 4 (5,010) 6 5 (4,764)
Selling, general and administration (6,817) (2) (6) (7,257) – – (7,250)
Research and development (3,237) (3) (6) (3,457) 11 10 (3,136)
Other operating income 475 307 364
Operating profit 7,931 8 2 7,808 17 14 6,874
Profit before taxation 7,790 6 – 7,799 19 16 6,732
Profit after taxation for the year 5,571 8 1 5,498 17 14 4,816
Profit attributable to minority interests 96 109 127
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,475 5,389 4,689
Basic earnings per share (pence) 99.1p 10 4 95.5p 19 16 82.6p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 98.3p 94.5p 82.0p
Research and development – total
Pharmaceuticals 3,219 3,353 3,030
Consumer Healthcare 108 104 106
Total 3,327 3,457 3,136
Net finance cost cover
Net finance costs 191 65 194
Cover 40 times 121 times 36 times
Net finance cost cover is profit before tax plus net finance costs, divided by net finance costs.
Tax rate – total 28.7% 29.5% 28.5%
Tax rate – business performance 28.5% 29.5% 28.5%
Borrowings
Net debt 6,039 2,450 1,237
Gearing 61% 25% 16%
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of total equity.
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling% or £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. See page 9.
The calculation of business performance, a supplemental non-IFRS measure, is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
12 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
soitar
dna
sdnert
laicnaniFBusiness review
Optimising the performance of marketed products
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 13
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
stcudorp
detekram
fo
ecnamrofrep
eht
gnisimitpO
Marketing codes
GSK undertakes a range of activities to
GSK is committed to ethical, responsible and patient-centred
maximise the commercial potential of marketing. The Group’s Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional
its intellectual property by introducing Activity policy governs marketing activities and applies to all
employees, suppliers, contractors and agents. This policy requires that
innovative products, accelerating the
all marketing and promotional activities are based on valid scientific
process of bringing them to as many
evidence and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
markets as possible, increasing brand
This policy is supported by regional marketing practices codes in
recognition and improving access to Europe, GSK’s International region, Japan and the USA. These
new medicines. codes apply the same ethical standards but reflect differences in
market structures, national healthcare systems and regulations. They
incorporate the principles of industry codes of practice such as the
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales force excellence
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries Associations, the
GSK’s sales force has always ranked high in surveys with healthcare
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations,
professionals. Worldwide Sales Force Excellence (WSFE) aims to
Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and Pharmaceutical
improve customer satisfaction even further.
Research and Manufacturers of America marketing codes.
The time available for physicians to learn about new medicines
Next Generation Now
and clinical studies is precious. Through the WSFE initiative, sales
The US pharmaceutical businesses have created and implemented
representatives strengthen product knowledge and learn to deliver
the Next Generation Now operating model for advertising agencies.
patient-specific treatment options more efficiently and more
Design of this model, which aims to improve creativity and productivity
effectively. Research shows that a sales visit is highly effective when
and achieve significant cost savings, involved a number of key areas.
a representative engages the physician in dialogue around patient
As a result professional brand accounts were consolidated under a
types and supports the message with visual aids that illustrate
single agency, which increased access to the best talent, streamlined
clinical results.
account management and reduced rates. The team also instituted
A single global sales call model has been introduced that focuses key changes for agency reviews and created financial parameters and
on treating the patient through a dialogue about “when” a resource guides to improve decision making and processes.
GSK medicine is appropriate, “why” it is effective and “how” to
Health literacy
administer it safely. All field staff in GSK’s key markets have been
To help patients understand basic information about their disease
trained in this new approach. The entire sales organisation is involved
and treatment options, US pharma launched a Health literacy
in WSFE to bring about a cultural change that raises ethical standards
programme. Over 1,000 employees and agency staff have gone
and helps build long-term, trusting relationships with the healthcare
through training to learn how to improve the materials, with a goal of
community. In addition, a dashboard of key performance indicators,
helping patients learn more about their disease and how to manage
a product knowledge certification process and an effective leadership
it. The result is obvious improvements to patient-directed materials
training programme have been established.
by making them easier to read, trimming content, incorporating
Superior product knowledge is essential in serving the needs of more user-friendly design and including step-by-step instructions on
healthcare professionals. Physicians rely on GSK to keep them abreast health behaviours. Health literacy is gaining ground in other parts of
of changes in prescribing information or new clinical studies involving GSK as colleagues begin adopting the concepts of simpler, clearer
GSK medicines. As a key goal of WSFE, GSK expanded its Annual patient communication.
Certification program to all countries. Over 30,000 representatives
Consumer Healthcare marketing excellence
passed certification tests on the pathology, prescribing information
Teams comprising marketing and R&D are dedicated to each
and key messages of their leading products. Scores were consistently
of seven global brands and focused on delivering pipelines and
around 98%, with many representatives achieving a perfect score.
global marketing programmes for in-country commercial teams to
Pharmaceutical marketing excellence execute. These efforts are driving significant sales growth in many
Large numbers of patients suffering the effects of disease continue markets. For other large brands that have one dominant market,
to be unable to benefit from innovative medicines and treatments. but may be available in several territories, a dedicated team drives
For example within Europe, around 50% of patients suffering from each of these lead market brands for their dominant market. The
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) are diagnosed and of remaining assets, termed enterprise brands, are locally managed
those, only 80% receive regular maintenance drug therapy. by in-market commercial teams to retain their entrepreneurial spirit
and local relevance.
GSK’s marketing initiative implements programmes to overcome the
barriers to proper diagnosis and treatment, by providing accurate
and balanced information on its products, to allow as many people
as possible to benefit from GSK’s medical advances. While these
programmes are beginning to show effects, more needs to be done
before the societal costs of disease will decrease.Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
• Metabolic – Research Triangle Park, USA
GSK spent over £3.2 billion on R&D in 2007
• O ncology – Upper Providence, USA
and employs over 16,000 staff in R&D. The • M acrolide Drug Discovery – Zagreb, Croatia
number of major product opportunities in • N eurology – Harlow, UK
phase III or registration has increased each • P sychiatry – Verona, Italy
year since 2000 and now stands at 34. • R espiratory – Stevenage, UK.
Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the targets of most relevance
in its therapeutic area and building on the lead compounds transferred
Research and development – Pharmaceuticals
from MDR to produce a potential medicine. The fundamental steps
GSK R&D has developed one of the most robust pipelines of potential in turning a lead compound into a medicine are optimising it for
new medicines in the industry. In 2007, Pharmaceutical R&D was potency, efficacy and safety and defining the biology in animals and
actively managing over 150 projects in human clinical trials across humans so that the medicine can be tested for effects in the right
the globe. Delivering this pipeline to patients safely and efficiently is patient groups.
the number one goal. Once a candidate compound is selected, the CEDDs are responsible for
Focus on the patient undertaking the clinical studies necessary to demonstrate a beneficial
One objective unites the 15,000 people who work at GSK effect sufficient to declare “proof of concept” – the first indication
Pharmaceutical R&D, and that is staying focused on the patient. in patients that the new medicine works. Based on the programme’s
It drives them to discover potential treatments for disease and to profile of safety and efficacy a decision is then made on whether to
develop innovative medicines that offer true benefit to patients. progress the medicine into late-stage drug development.
Reaching out to and speaking with patients and their families to As part of GSK’s commitment towards pursuing the best science
understand the impact of disease on their lives, their work and their anywhere in the world, the Centre of Excellence for External Drug
community are an essential part of this. GSK knows patients are Discovery (CEEDD) was established in 2005. The CEEDD has the
waiting, and the focus on the patient is the driver to deliver the best same objective as the CEDDs: delivering medicines into late-stage
every day. development, but does so by establishing and managing long-term
Pharmaceutical R&D at GSK is organised around the discovery and strategic collaborations with biotech and small to medium-sized
development of medicines for patients. Discovery is conducted pharmaceutical companies. In 2007, the CEEDD exercised its first
by GSK’s Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDDs), and option to bring in a compound to clinical development: XL880, an
development by GSK’s Medicine Development Centres (MDCs). anti-cancer inhibitor from Exelixis.
Along the way, many other groups provide critical scientific input, As part of this same strategic intent, in 2007 GSK established
conduct important experiments, and aid in managing the R&D a dedicated R&D centre in Shanghai. R&D in China will focus on
process. These groups are described in more detail below. research into neurodegeneration with the objective of creating new
Discovering potential medicines medicines for such severe disorders as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s
Two components are needed in the discovery of new medicines disease and Alzheimer’s disease. The centre will eventually direct the
– identification of the most important molecular targets that have global discovery and development activities within its therapeutic
potential to impact human disease and discovery of compounds that area, from drug-target identification to late-stage clinical studies,
can modulate these targets to alleviate disease in an effective and while collaborating with research institutions elsewhere in China and
safe way. other countries. Establishing R&D China reflects GSK’s commitment
to ally with talented researchers wherever they are located and to
Molecular Discovery Research (MDR) produces the lead compounds further encourage within R&D the contest of ideas needed to create
that may interact with targets which form the basis of drug discovery new medicines.
efforts in GSK’s CEDDs. In 2007, MDR progressed over 220 preclinical
drug discovery programmes and in so doing performed hundreds of Developing medicines for patients
assays per week and provided the CEDDs with over 30 leads. Progression into late-stage development (referred to at GSK as
‘medicines development’), consists of optimising both the physical
When GSK R&D designed the CEDDs, it integrated groups of product properties of the medicine, that is, the chemical steps and
scientists and clinicians and organised their work around specific formulation required to manufacture and deliver it, as well as the
disease areas, with the intent to produce nimble and entrepreneurial large scale confirming studies of efficacy and safety. The former
discovery units. activity is the responsibility of Preclinical Development, while the latter
GSK’s 11 CEDDs, based in Europe and the USA, are: is the responsibility of the clinical development and development
operations teams. The combination of the results of these two
• Biopharmaceuticals – Stevenage, UK
steps into a regulatory file for submission to regulatory agencies
• C ardiovascular & Urogenital – Upper Merion, USA
and approval for patient use is the responsibility of the regulatory
• Centre of Excellence for External Drug Discovery –
team. The integration of all steps above into a coherent project is the
Upper Merion, USA
responsibility of the project teams, which are grouped therapeutically
• I mmuno-inflammation – Stevenage, UK into Medicine Development Centres. These roles are described in
• Infectious Disease – Upper Merion and Research Triangle more detail as follows:
Park, USA
14 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
stneitap
rof
enilepip
tcudorp
eht
gnirevileDBusiness review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Preclinical Development (PCD) includes a wide range of activities Safety data are routinely collected throughout development
throughout the entire medicines development process. In addition, programmes and are reported to national and regional regulatory
this function is involved in the enhancement of existing products by agencies in line with applicable regulations.
devising more convenient formulations. Early in the development
GSK’s Chief Medical Officer, working with the Global Safety Board, is
process, the metabolism and safety of compounds are evaluated in
ultimately accountable for oversight of all major decisions regarding
laboratory animals before testing in humans. The testing required in
patient safety. The GSK Global Safety Board is responsible internally
animals is highly regulated (see Animals and research, page 16).
for approving pivotal studies and investigating any issues related
Processes and supporting analytical methods for drug synthesis and to patient safety arising during the development programme.
product formulation and delivery are scaled up to meet increasing Information from GSK clinical trials is widely and easily available at
supply requirements. This leads to the technical transfer of the the Clinical Trial Register on GSK’s website.
processes and methods to manufacturing. The new product supply
In-licensing
process, a partnership between R&D and Global Manufacturing and
GSK continues to identify compounds from other companies that
Supply, ensures that a robust product is developed for large-scale
would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations
commercial manufacturing and launch.
to ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for
Medicines Development is the collection of six therapeutically large and small companies.
aligned MDCs. Each MDC has ultimate accountability for developing
The subjects of acquisitions, in-licensing, co-marketing/co-promotion,
experimental drugs into regulatory-approved medicines for patients.
or future options arrangements in 2007 included:
The MDCs are responsible for creating value through the execution
of full product development plans and ensuring strong partnerships • X enoport (XP13512, phase III for RLS and phase II for
with the rest of GSK, in particular the CEDDs and the other late-stage neuropathic pain)
development groups. • S epracor (Lunesta/Lunivia (excluding USA, Canada, Mexico and
Japan), GABA-A agonist, insomnia, pending EU filing)
The MDCs are based at the major USA and UK sites and are aligned
• S ynta (STA-4783, HSP70 upregulation, melanoma, sarcoma,
with the following therapeutic areas:
solid tumors, phase III)
• C ardiovascular/Metabolic
• T oleRx (anti-CD3 mAb for autoimmune diseases, phase II)
• I nfectious Diseases including Diseases of the Developing • T argacept (TC-2696 in phase II for acute post-operative pain and
World (DDW) novel leads for Central nervous system diseases)
• Musculoskeletal/Inflammation/Gastrointestinal/Urology • A nacor (novel candidates for viral and bacterial diseases, preclinical)
• N euroscience (Psychiatry/Neurology) • O ncoMed (cancer stem cell therapeutics, preclinical)
• O ncology • G alapagos (novel anti-bacterials and antivirals, preclinical)
• R espiratory • S antaris (novel antiviral agents, preclinical)
Managing the portfolio
The MDCs discharge their responsibilities through project teams for
each medicine in development. These project teams are responsible Key projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed each month
for maximising the worldwide development opportunities for by the Product Management Board (PMB), which is responsible for
each product within their remit and to see that all the information determining if a medicine has met criteria for passing into the next
needed to support the registration, safety programmes, pricing and phase of development.
formulary negotiations is available. Commercial input from Global Progress of the portfolio is communicated to investors and the
Product Strategy and Commercial Operations ensures that regional media at regular intervals during the year. Details of GSK’s product
marketing needs are integrated into development plans at an development pipeline are given on pages 18 to 21.
early stage.
Risk in R&D
Development Operations drives operational excellence in the Pharmaceutical R&D, by its very nature, is an inherently risky
execution of the project’s clinical studies. This is done by establishing venture. From the time a potential medicine is discovered until it
integrated planning to ensure consistent and predictable drug becomes an approved medicine can take 10-15 years. Further, only
project plans and supplying clinical operations capabilities. In 2007, one in ten molecules that starts human clinical trials ever reaches
development operations managed clinical trials with over 30,000 regulatory approval. The nine out of ten that fail can be discontinued
active patients, handling everything from patient recruitment to data for a variety of reasons, from insufficient safety thresholds to lack
management to project planning. of efficacy to manufacturing hurdles. These discontinuations
The Office of the Chief Medical Officer is charged with the safety of occur despite extensive predictive testing. Late-stage projects
patients involved in clinical trials, as well as the proper filing of the terminated during 2007 included Ariflo for COPD and odiparcil for
findings with regulatory authorities. All clinical trials sponsored by stroke prevention.
GSK, irrespective of where they take place, are conducted according
to international standards of good clinical practice and applicable
laws and regulations. The protocols are reviewed by the external
regulatory agencies in the relevant countries where required and
all protocols are considered by an ethics review committee, whose
responsibilities cover the sites where the studies will take place.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 15
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
stneitap
rof
enilepip
tcudorp
eht
gnirevileDBusiness review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Research and development – vaccines Diseases of the developing world
GSK’s vaccine division activities include research, clinical Continued investment in research into diseases that disproportionately
development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy, scaling up, affect the developing world is essential if there is to be a long-term
vaccine production, packaging and all other support functions. The improvement in the health of people who live in these regions. As
discovery and development of a new vaccine is a complex process part of GSK’s response to this challenge, it operates a drug discovery
requiring long-term investment. In R&D over 1,500 scientists are unit, based at Tres Cantos (Spain), primarily dedicated to finding new
devoted to developing new vaccines and more cost-effective and medicines for malaria and tuberculosis. Additional research sites in
convenient combination vaccines to prevent infections that cause the USA and the UK are focused on discovering new medicines to
serious medical problems worldwide. GSK’s vaccine division is also treat HIV/AIDS and drug resistant bacteria, while vaccine research is
developing therapeutic immunotherapeutics aimed at educating conducted in Rixensart (Belgium).
the patient’s immune system to identify and attack cancer cells in a
Medicines and vaccines that enter clinical trials are taken through
highly specific manner. Thanks to the use of innovative technologies
development and regulatory processes by dedicated groups based
and its global business model, GSK is a fast-growing vaccine maker,
in the UK, USA and Belgium. Through these R&D efforts, GSK is
delivering value by contributing to the health and well-being of
addressing the prevention and treatment of all three of the World
people in every generation around the world.
Health Organization’s (WHO) priority infectious diseases. Recently,
Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia and GSK has developed scored-tablets for its key anti-retroviral products
the biotech industry to identify new vaccine antigens which are then to simplify the treatment of children living with HIV.
expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and purified to a
GSK currently has 12 clinical programmes of relevance to the
very high level.
developing world, seven of which are aimed at producing vaccines
This is followed by formulation of the clinical lots of the vaccine. This and medicines for diseases that disproportionately affect developing
may involve mixing antigens with selected GSK novel proprietary countries.
adjuvant systems, which are combinations of selected adjuvants
Public/Private Partnerships (PPPs) remain essential to fund research
designed to enhance the immune response. The first step is
where there is no commercially viable market for a potential product.
to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the candidate vaccine in a
GSK is a leader in working in PPPs and continues to collaborate
preclinical setting, usually involving an animal model. The candidate
closely with many governments, academic centres, United Nations’
vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy individuals to evaluate
agencies and other global funding bodies in this area, to maximise
safety and effectiveness in inducing an immune response to protect
expertise and knowledge. This has the dual benefit of encouraging
the body from infection encountered later in a natural setting (phase
research and development and accelerating access to the medicines
I/II). Large-scale field trials in healthy individuals follow to establish
in the developing world.
safety and efficacy in a cross section of the population (phase III).
Animals and research
The results obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the
For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals
development of a quality and large-scale production process and
remains a small but vital part of research and development of new
facilities are then combined into a regulatory file which is submitted
medicines and vaccines. GSK only uses animals where there is no
to the authorities in the countries where the vaccine will be
alternative and only in the numbers required for each test. The Group
made available.
strives to exceed regulatory standards in the care and use of the
After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are set up animals it uses and undergoes internal and external review to assure
to assess vaccination programmes and to monitor vaccine safety these standards.
(phase IV).
The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
Vaccine manufacturing is particularly complex as it requires the use GSK is actively engaged in research to develop and validate more
of innovative technologies and living micro-organisms. Sophisticated tests that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce the
quality assurance and quality control procedures are in place to ensure numbers needed. When animals are used in research unnecessary
both quality and safety of the vaccines and this commonly includes pain or suffering is scrupulously avoided.
animal use according to health authorities’ requirements. Due to their
GSK understands that use of animals for research purposes
biological nature, individual health authorities may subject vaccines
commands a high level of public interest. The GlaxoSmithKline Public
to a second control to guarantee the highest quality standards.
Policy Position ‘The care and ethical use of animals in research’, and
GSK has been increasing its capacity to supply vaccines by further information and reports, are available on GSK’s website or
developing its global manufacturing network (see page 26, ‘Global from Secretariat.
manufacturing and supply’).
16 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
stneitap
rof
enilepip
tcudorp
eht
gnirevileDBusiness review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Research and development – Consumer Healthcare Products filed:
• A vodart & alpha blocker co-prescription
The focus of R&D is to identify and develop novel products that
• C ervarix (USA & Japan)
benefit consumers in the over-the-counter (OTC), oral healthcare • E ntereg POI
and nutritional healthcare markets. To achieve a significant increase
• H 5N1 vaccine (EU)
in innovation from internal and external sources, R&D has been
• K inrix (USA)
remodelled to deliver a more valuable pipeline of products. With this
• L amictal XR (USA)
change, specific tasks that can be performed at lower cost outside
• L univia (EU)
GSK have been transferred to external development partners. This
• P romacta (USA)
transfer, along with other headcount reductions and savings, releases
• R equip XL (USA)
substantial funds for investment in additional innovation projects.
• R otarix (USA)
The remodelling builds on the Consumer Healthcare operating
• S ynflorix (EU & International)
model whereby, for the Global brands, R&D mirrors the commercial
• T reximet
structure, with brand-dedicated R&D teams paired with commercial
• V olibris (EU)
brand teams and both located together at the Innovation Centres at
Weybridge, UK or Parsippany, USA. GSK expects a sustained flow of new products in the next two years.
For further details of these developments, and information on other
GSK’s pipeline
important launches/filings see GSK outlook on page 50.
At the beginning of February 2008, GSK had nearly 210 pharmaceutical
The content of the drug development portfolio will change over time
and vaccine projects in development. Of these, 157 are in the clinic
as new compounds progress from discovery to development and
comprising 96 NCEs, 37 PLEs and 24 vaccines, compared with 123
from development to the market. Owing to the nature of the drug
in 2001.
development process, many of these compounds, especially those
In the last 12 months, GSK commenced 9 new phase III clinical in early stages of investigation, may be terminated as they progress
development programmes (including 2 vaccines) and now has 34 through development. Phase I NCEs with multiple indications are
key assets in phase III/registration. counted only once. NCEs in later phases are counted by each
indication. For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical
Compounds in phase III/registration
development have not been disclosed and some project types may
not have been identified.
GSK’s policy is to seek to obtain patent protection on all protectable
inventions discovered or developed through its R&D activities. Patent
protection for new active ingredients is available in all significant
markets and protection can also be obtained, for example, on new
pharmaceutical formulations, manufacturing processes, medical
uses and special devices for administering products, see page 28
‘Intellectual property’.
GSK has maintained momentum in delivering its late-stage pipeline,
receiving 10 product approvals and filing 10 product applications
in 2007. Currently it has 13 new product opportunities filed
with regulators.
Development programmes progressed into phase III in 2007:
• b elimumab (LymphoStat B)
• e lesclomol
• G SK 1838262 (XP13512)
• M AGE-A3 therapeutic vaccine
• M enACWY vaccine
• o fatumumab (RA)
• P romacta (Hep C)
• T ykerb + Armala (IBC)
• T ykerb (Head & Neck)
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 17
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
stneitap
rof
enilepip
tcudorp
eht
gnirevileD
40
34
31
30
20
10
2006 2007Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Key
† In-license or other alliance relationship with third party MAA Marketing authorisation application (Europe)
S Date of first submission NDA New drug application (USA)
A Date of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
approval letter) Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a
AL Date Approvable or Complete Response Letter received – indicates small number of patients
that ultimately approval can be given subject to resolution of Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
outstanding queries treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety.
BLA Biological License Application
Estimated submission dates are only disclosed where they are within 12 months of the date of the chart. This date represents the most
likely year of submission where it is considered that there is a reasonably high probability of successfully meeting the date assuming the
clinical data meets the expected end-points of the clinical trials.
Estimated
submission dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Cardiovascular & Metabolic
Cardiovascular projects
256073 high affinity nicotinic acid receptor dyslipidaemia I
(HM74A) agonist
rilapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis (also chronic obstructive pulmonary II
disease – COPD, neuropathic pain & rheumatoid arthritis)
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis (also COPD, depression & rheumatoid II
arthritis)
darapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis ll/III
Coreg CR† + ACE inhibitor beta blocker + angiotensin converting hypertension – fixed dose combination III N/A 2008
enzyme inhibitor
Volibris† endothelin A antagonist pulmonary arterial hypertension Submitted S:Mar07 N/A
Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome Approved A:Aug07 AL:Feb07
& Sep07
Metabolic projects
remoglifozin etabonate sodium dependent glucose transport (SGLT2) obesity I
(189075)† inhibitor
376501 PPAR gamma partial agonist type 2 diabetes I
756050 bile acid receptor agonist type 2 diabetes I
otelixizumab (TRX4)† anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody type 1 diabetes II
remoglifozin etabonate SGLT2 inhibitor type 2 diabetes II
(189075)†
Syncria† glucagon-like peptide 1 agonist type 2 diabetes II
Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist + metformin type 2 diabetes – extended release III N/A
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist atherosclerosis in type 2 diabetes III
Avandia + simvastatin PPAR gamma agonist + statin type 2 diabetes III N/A
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist prevention of disease progression Submitted S:Feb07
Infectious Diseases
580416 ribosome inhibitor treatment of bacterial infections I
945237 topoisomerase ll inhibitor treatment of bacterial infections I
1349572† HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections I
farglitazar PPAR gamma agonist hepatic fibrosis II
sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis II N/A
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria II
18 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
stneitap
rof
enilepip
tcudorp
eht
gnirevileDBusiness review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Estimated
submission dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Musculoskeletal, Inflammation, Gastrointestinal & Urology
315234 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis I
768974† parathyroid hormone agonist osteoporosis I
962040 motilin receptor agonist delayed gastric emptying I
971086 androgen modulator sarcopaenia I
1827771 interleukin 1 antagonist rheumatoid arthritis I
belimumab† anti-B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus I
antibody (s.c.)
pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor age-related macular degeneration (also cancer indications) I
221149 oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour II
232802 3G-selective oestrogen receptor modulator treatment of menopausal symptoms II
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis II
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) rheumatoid arthritis (also atherosclerosis, COPD II
& neuropathic pain)
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) rheumatoid arthritis (also atherosclerosis, COPD II
& depression)
876008† corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF1) antagonist irritable bowel syndrome (also depression & anxiety) II
ronacaleret† calcium antagonist osteoporosis & fracture healing II
solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist irritable bowel syndrome II
solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist overactive bladder II
Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer III
Avodart + alpha blocker 5-alpha reductase inhibitor + alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia – fixed dose combination III 2008 2009
belimumab† anti-B lymphocycte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus III
antibody (i.v.)
Bosatria (mepolizumab) anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome (also severe asthma & nasal III 2008 2008
polyposis)
Entrareg/Entereg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist opioid-induced bowel dysfunction III
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis (also cancer indications) III
Entrareg/Entereg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus Approvable AL:Jul05 &
AL:Nov06
Neurosciences
163090 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
239512 histamine H3 antagonist dementia I
249320 monoclonal antibody neuronal injury I
424887 NK1 antagonist/SSRI depression & anxiety I
561679† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
586529† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
598809 dopamine D3 antagonist drug dependency I
618334 dopamine D3 antagonist drug dependency I
729327 AMPA receptor modulator schizophrenia I
933776 monoclonal antibody Alzheimer’s disease I
1014802 sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder I
1018921 type 1 glycine transport inhibitor schizophrenia I
orvepitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
189254 histamine H3 antagonist narcolepsy II
372475† triple (5HT/noradrenaline/dopamine) re-uptake depression II
inhibitor
468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II
649868† orexin antagonist sleep disorders II
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor neuropathic pain (also atherosclerosis, COPD & II
rheumatoid arthritis)
742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II
773812 mixed 5HT/dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia II
842166 non-cannabinoid CB2 agonist inflammatory pain II
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor depression (also atherosclerosis, COPD & rheumatoid II
arthritis)
876008† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety (also irritable bowel syndrome) II
1838262 (XP13512)† voltage-gated calcium channel modulator migraine prophylaxis II
1838262 (XP13512)† voltage-gated calcium channel modulator neuropathic pain II
casopitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety (also as Zunrisa/Rezonic for chemo- II
therapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting)
firategrast† dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis II
1838262 (XP13512)† voltage-gated calcium channel modulator restless legs syndrome III 2008
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy – partial generalised tonic-clonic seizures, III N/A 2008
once-daily
rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer’s disease III
Lunivia† non-benzodiazepine GABA agonist insomnia Submitted S:Jul07 N/A
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy – partial seizures, once-daily Approvable N/A AL:Sep07
Treximet† 5HT1 agonist + naproxen migraine – fixed dose combination Approvable N/A AL:Jun06
& Aug07
Requip Modutab/XL† non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinson’s disease – once-daily controlled release Approved A:Mar07 AL:Dec07
formulation
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 19
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
stneitap
rof
enilepip
tcudorp
eht
gnirevileDBusiness review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Estimated
submission dates
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Oncology
461364 polo-like kinase inhibitor cancer I
690693 AKT kinase inhibitor cancer I
923295† centromere-associated protein E (CENP-E) cancer I
inhibitor
Armala (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor colorectal cancer I
iboctadekin† + rituximab lL18 immunomodulator + anti-CD20 non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma I
monoclonal antibody
totrombopag† thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia I
1363089 (XL-880)† C-met kinase inhibitor papillary renal cell carcinoma, gastric cancer and head & II
neck squamous cell carcinoma
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody relapsed diffuse large B cell lymphoma II
Armala (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer II
Armala (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ovarian cancer II
Armala (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor sarcoma II
Armala (pazopanib) + multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor + ErbB-2 metastatic breast cancer II
Tyverb/Tykerb and epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) dual kinase inhibitor
Armala (pazopanib + multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor + ErbB-2 other cancers II
Tyverb/Tykerb and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin agonist chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopaenia II
Tyverb/Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinomas II
(unresectable disease)
Tyverb/Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor refractory inflammatory breast cancer II
Armala (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor renal cell cancer III
Armala (pazopanib) + multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor + ErbB-2 inflammatory breast cancer III
Tyverb/Tykerb and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor
elesclomol (STA-4783)† oxidative stress inducer metastatic melanoma III
Hycamtin topoisomeraseI inhibitor ovarian cancer first-line therapy III
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia III 2008 2008
(also rheumatoid arthritis)
ofatumumab† anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody refractory follicular lymphoma (also rheumatoid arthritis) III
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin agonist hepatitis C III
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin agonist long-term idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura III 2008 2008
Tyverb/Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, adjuvant therapy III
Tyverb/Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, brain metastases III
Tyverb/Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, first-line therapy III
Tyverb/Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinomas (resectable disease) III
Zunrisa/Rezonic NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & III 2008 2008
vomiting (also depression & anxiety)
Revolade/Promacta† thrombopoietin agonist short-term idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura Submitted 2008 S:Dec07
Hycamtin topoisomerase I inhibitor (oral) small cell lung cancer, second-line therapy Approved S:May07 A:Oct07
Tyverb/Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor refractory breast cancer Approved S:Oct06 A:Mar07
Respiratory
656933 interleukin 8 antagonist cystic fibrosis I
835726 histamine H1/H3 dual antagonist (oral) allergic rhinitis I
1004723 histamine H1/H3 dual antagonist (intranasal) allergic rhinitis I
2190914 (AM-103)† 5 lipoxygenase activating protein (FLAP) inhibitor respiratory diseases I
159797† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
159802† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
256066 PDE IV inhibitor (inhaled) COPD II
256066 PDE IV inhibitor (inhaled) asthma II
256066 PDE IV inhibitor (intranasal) allergic rhinitis II
573719 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II
642444† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
679586 monoclonal antibody severe asthma II
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also atherosclerosis, neuropathic pain & II
rheumatoid arthritis)
685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
long-acting beta2 agonist (also as Avamys/Veramyst for
allergic rhinitis)
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also atherosclerosis, depression & rheumatoid II
arthritis)
870086 novel glucocorticoid agonist asthma II
961081† muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD II
darotropium (233705) muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody severe asthma & nasal polyposis (also hypereosinophilic II
syndrome)
Avamys/Veramyst glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis Approved A:Jan08 A:Apr07
20 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
stneitap
rof
enilepip
tcudorp
eht
gnirevileDBusiness review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Estimated
submission dates
Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA BLA
Paediatric Vaccines
Hib-MenCY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & III
Haemophilus influenzae type b disease prophylaxis
MenACWY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease III
prophylaxis
Infanrix-IPV/Kinrix subunit – inactivated diptheria, tetanus, pertussis + poliomyelitis prophylaxis Submitted S:Apr07
(booster-5th dose)
Synflorix conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease and non-typeable Submitted S:Dec07
Haemophilus influenzae prophylaxis for children
Rotarix† live attenuated (oral) rotavirus-induced gastroenteritis prophylaxis Approved A:Feb06 S:Jun07
Other Vaccines
Cytomegalovirus recombinant cytomegalovirus infection prophylaxis I
HIV recombinant HIV infection prophylaxis I
S. pneumoniae adult recombinant – conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis l
Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine Dengue fever prophylaxis ll
Epstein-Barr virus† recombinant EBV infection prophylaxis ll
Hepatitis E virus† recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis ll
Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis ll
Tuberculosis recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
Varicella Zoster virus recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention II
Flu pandemic† H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent pandemic influenza prophylaxis III 2008
(Quebec)
Flu pre-pandemic† H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent pandemic influenza prophylaxis III 2008 2008
(Quebec)
New generation flu inactivated split – trivalent seasonal influenza prophylaxis for the elderly III
vaccine
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis lll
Boostrix subunit adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus & pertussis Submitted S:Feb08
Flu pandemic† H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent pandemic influenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Feb07
(Dresden)
Flu pre-pandemic† H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent pandemic influenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Jan07
(Dresden)
Cervarix† recombinant human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis Approved A:Sep07 AL:Dec07
Antigen Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic (ASCI)
MAGE-A3 ASCI recombinant treatment of melanoma II
MAGE-A3 ASCI recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer III
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 21
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
stneitap
rof
enilepip
tcudorp
eht
gnirevileDBusiness review
Being the best place for the best people to do their best work
22 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
krow
tseb
rieht
od
ot
elpoep
tseb
eht
rof
ecalp
tseb
eht
gnieB
Business ethics and reputation
GSK employs over 100,000 people
GSK expects employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects
in more than 100 countries and is of business by conducting activities with honesty and integrity,
committed to creating the best place for adhering to corporate responsibility principles and complying with
applicable laws and regulations. The 2006 GLS showed 91%
the best people to do their best work.
believed that ‘people in their department showed commitment to
performance with integrity’ and 82% agreed that they ‘can report
Recruitment, talent management and leadership development unethical practices without fear of reprisal’. A half-day workshop
Attracting and recruiting the best people is critical to enhancing and on Ethical Decision-making has now been extended to three
sustaining GSK’s performance. Recruiters across GSK are focused e-learning modules, which are being implemented across GSK.
on actively targeting the best talent and assessing their fit with the
Commitment to the GSK Code of Conduct is reinforced by a senior
organisation for many key roles. GSK seeks to recruit people with
management certification programme, and each year over 12,000
the highest level of integrity. Interview questions with specific ethical
managers certify that they have complied with ‘Performance with
and integrity components have been developed for inclusion in the
Integrity’ principles. GSK audits its operations regularly to ensure that
standard interview questionnaire during 2008.
relevant standards, such as those in marketing practices, are reached
The annual performance and development planning (PDP) or exceeded.
process ensures that employees set business-aligned objectives
Diversity
and behavioural goals. PDPs are reviewed throughout the year,
The diversity and inclusion initiatives focus on improving performance.
culminating with an end of year review that is factored into
In the fifth year of the annual Multicultural Marketing and Diversity
compensation decisions. The annual talent management cycle
Awards, award winning projects repeatedly demonstrated the
identifies the highest performing people in each business and key
business value of understanding diverse perspectives and leveraging
talent is developed through tailored management and leadership
those differences to make a positive difference in the workplace,
programmes, exposure to top management through programmes
with customers and in the communities served. In 2007, the
such as the Chief Executive Forum and stretch assignments. A pool
global management population was 63% male and 37% female.
of potential successors is identified for each Vice-President position
For more details on diversity measures, see the Group’s Corporate
and other critical roles throughout the Group.
Responsibility report.
Performance and reward
The Group is committed to employment policies free from
Reward systems are designed to support a culture of high performance
discrimination against existing or potential staff on the grounds of
and to attract and retain the best people. Performance based pay and
age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith
bonuses, share awards and share options align employee interests
or disability. GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities
with the meeting of business targets.
access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.
Communication and employee involvement Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become
The Group conducts a Global Leadership Survey (GLS) every two disabled while working with the Group.
years. The most recent survey was conducted in 2006 among more
Healthy high performance
than 10,000 managers to gauge opinions on critical issues such as
Healthy, energised and engaged employees together with healthy
culture and confidence in the Group’s future. Scores on morale and
and sustainable ways of working contribute to the performance
engagement have steadily increased since 2002 and compare very
of the Group. Global policies on employee health are supported
favourably with global benchmarks (42 top-ranked companies). In
by mandatory standards that integrate employee health and
the 2006 survey, 90% of managers were ‘proud to be part of GSK’
safety and environmental requirements. A commitment to flexible
and 86% would ‘gladly refer a friend or family member to work
working through flexi-time, tele-conferencing, remote working
for GSK’. Each business develops action plans to address areas for
and flexible work schedules, recognises that employees work
improvement based on results from the GLS and other surveys.
best in an environment that helps them integrate their work and
The Group also consults employees on changes that affect them and personal lives.
discusses developments in the business with a European Employee
The Group’s Employee Health Management function is actively
Consultation Forum and similar bodies in countries where this is
delivering and implementing team and personal resilience
national practice.
programmes which are now available in 13 languages. In 2007, in
Employee numbers by region partnership with the Group’s Leadership and Development function,
Energy for Performance training has been introduced in order to
6 7 improve further the potential of employees.
5 1 1 USA (24,838)
4
2 Europe (46,869)
3 Asia Pacific (17,525)
3
4 Japan (3,284)
5 Middle East, Africa (3,156)
6 Latin America (5,249)
7 Canada (2,562)
2Business review
Improving access to medicines
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 23
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
senicidem
ot
ssecca
gnivorpmI
Looking ahead
GSK is committed to contributing to
GSK will continue to build on its product, pricing and partnership
health improvements in a sustainable commitments to help improve healthcare in the developing world.
manner. In the developing world, However, a significant increase in funding from the global community
is still needed. It is also important to maintain incentives for R&D this includes not-for-profit pricing,
through protection of intellectual property.
community investment programmes and
While much has been achieved, sustainable progress will only occur
other innovative solutions, while in the
if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better access to
developed world the focus is on patient healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global
assistance programmes. society – governments, international agencies, charities, academic
institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and others.
Access to healthcare in the developing world Access to medicines in the developed world
Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a major Programmes in the USA
challenge to the global community. The problem, which is rooted in GSK is working to provide access to medicines for people with limited
poverty, demands a significant mobilisation of political will, additional financial resources and without prescription drug insurance.
resources and a true spirit of partnership. GSK continues to play a
2007 marked the launch of GSK’s newest patient assistance
vital role, through its commitment to R&D into diseases particularly
programme, GSK Access, for eligible patients enrolled in Medicare
prevalent in the developing world, through its programme of not-for-
Part D prescription drug plans. Enrolment in this new programme
profit prices for its anti-retrovirals (ARVs), anti-malarials and vaccines,
was encouraged through a multi-million dollar national advertising
through its community investment programmes (see page 24) and
campaign in major magazines and newspapers.
through its willingness to seek innovative solutions, such as voluntary
licensing arrangements. For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or Medicaid,
GSK and 11 other pharmaceutical companies created Together Rx
Preferential pricing programme
Access, a programme for qualified individuals offering reductions
GSK has offered its vaccines to key organisations for vaccination
in the pharmacy cost on more than 300 medicines. Over 820,000
programmes in developing countries at preferential prices for over
Together Rx Access cardholders saved about $24 million in 2007.
20 years. The Group also sets a single not-for-profit price for each
of its ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the GSK also participates in the Partnership for Prescription Assistance (PPA),
Least Developed Countries (UN definition) and sub-Saharan Africa, a national service that helps match people in need with prescription
as well as Country Coordinating Mechanism-projects fully funded by medicine access programmes. To date, PPA has provided patients in the
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria and the US President’s USA with information about assistance to obtain necessary medicines.
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).
Launched with Tykerb to help with access to this medicine, Tykerb
GSK is committed to contributing to health improvements in a CARES is a single point of contact for physicians and patients. Tykerb
sustainable manner. The prices for its ARVs and anti-malarials are CARES provides reimbursement support and adherence support through
therefore set at levels at which no profit is made, but direct costs services like pre-therapy counselling from a trained oncology nurse.
are covered, allowing supply to be sustained for as long as required.
Patient Advocacy
During 2007, GSK shipped to developing countries 13 million tablets
The Patient Advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant progress
of not-for-profit-priced Combivir and 72 million tablets of not-for-
since its inception in 2002. Initially launched as a US programme, it
profit-priced Epivir. Some of GSK’s licensees are now supplying key
is now a critical initiative throughout GSK. Patient Advocacy teams in
markets in a more significant way.
the USA and Europe share best practices and established processes to
The offer of not-for-profit prices requires a sustainable framework, optimise interaction with patient groups. Typically these relationships
combining GSK’s commitment to preferential pricing with commitments provide mutual opportunities: to learn about patient needs and
from governments of the developed world to avoid price referencing priorities and for patient groups to develop an understanding of drug
against preferentially priced medicines and from all governments to help development challenges.
prevent product diversion. GSK has taken steps to minimise the threat of
In 2007, GSK continued to work with patient groups to educate them
diversion with the registration of specific access packs or access tablets
on issues of mutual concern, to advocate for access to medicines and
(differentiated red tablet as opposed to the traditional white) for its key
treatment and to improve its reputation with them, governments and
ARVs. GSK remains the only Group to have registered its ARVs under
the media through efforts to promote transparency. GSK is considered
the European Union’s Anti-Diversion Regulation.
to be a trustworthy partner with patient groups, and has developed
Innovative solutions guidelines and procedures for working with patient groups that are
GSK has shown industry leadership in granting voluntary licences to being imitated throughout the industry.
eight generic companies for the manufacture and supply of ARVs to
Programmes in other countries
both the public and private sectors in sub-Saharan Africa. GSK is also
The Group has also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts on
a leader in collaborating in Public-Private Partnerships to enable new
certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in a number of
drug discovery and development to take place more effectively.
other countries. The nature of the discounts varies between countries
and the way in which its healthcare system operates.Business review
Corporate responsibility and community investment
24 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tnemtsevni
ytinummoc
dna
ytilibisnopser
etaroproC
GSK’s cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education
In 2007, GSK made product, cash
initiatives as follows:
and other donations valued at £282
5
million to support over 100 community
programmes around the world 4 1 Health ( 50%)
3 2 Education (28%)
1 3 Arts and Culture (4%)
Commitment to corporate responsibility 4 Environment (2%)
5 Other (16%)
GSK is committed to connecting business decisions to ethical, 2
social and environmental concerns. Thus, corporate responsibility
is an integral and embedded part of the way GSK does business. In the UK, GSK contributed £6 million in 2007 to its continuing
In 2003, GSK published a set of Corporate Responsibility principles to programme of charitable activities supporting over 70 organisations
provide guidance on the standards to which the Group is committed. in health, medical research, science education, the arts and
This sets out the approach to 10 areas: standards of ethical the environment.
conduct, research and innovation, products and customers, access
Programmes in North America focused on improving public
to medicines, employment practices, human rights, community
education and access to better healthcare for children and seniors
investment, caring for the environment, leadership and advocacy,
both nationally and locally with funding of $35 million. On National
and engagement with stakeholders. The Group reports annually on
Philanthropy Day in the USA, GSK received the Excellence in
progress in upholding these principles in its Corporate Responsibility
Corporate Philanthropy Award from the Committee Encouraging
Report, which is available on GSK’s website.
Corporate Philanthropy (CECP).
Partnership success
GSK does not operate a single charitable foundation for its
GSK works as a partner with under-served communities in the developed
community investment programmes, but has a number of country
and developing world. It supports programmes that are innovative
based foundations. The grants made by these foundations in 2007
and sustainable and that bring real benefits to these communities.
are included in the investment total.
The Group engages with numerous external stakeholders, funds
community led initiatives around the world and donates medicines to Global Health Programmes
support humanitarian efforts and community based healthcare. Eliminating lymphatic filariasis
The Group’s effort to eliminate the disabling disease, lymphatic
Community investment filariasis (LF) from the world, continued in close partnership with the
governments of countries where the disease is endemic, the WHO
GSK’s global community investment activities in 2007 were valued
and over 40 partner organisations. GSK is committed to donate as
at £282 million, equivalent to 3.8% of Group total profit before tax.
much of the anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required to treat the
This comprised product donations of £224 million, cash giving of £41
one billion people at risk in over 80 countries. In 2007, 150 million
million, other in-kind donations of £3 million plus costs of £14 million to
albendazole treatments, worth £14 million at wholesale acquisition
manage and deliver community programmes in over 100 countries.
cost, were donated to 19 countries. Since the global elimination
Product donations in 2007 were as follows: programme started in 2000, a cumulative total of almost 750 million
albendazole treatments have been donated.
3
2 Positive Action on HIV/AIDS
1 Patient Assistance Programs Positive Action is GSK’s pioneering global programme working
£194 million
with communities affected by AIDS. Started in 1992, it supports
2 Albendazole for LF community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS
£14 million
education, prevention and healthcare services. During 2007,
3 Humanitarian Product Donations
Positive Action worked with 16 partners to support programmes
£16 million
in 19 countries. Positive Action’s larger programmes operate in
1
Mexico, Kenya, India, China, Cambodia and Vietnam.
All product donations valued at wholesale acquisition cost (WAC). The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership
GSK’s malaria advocacy programme ‘Mobilising for Malaria’ has
launched country Coalitions Against Malaria in the UK, Belgium,
France, Ethiopia and Cameroon to increase awareness of malaria
and mobilise resources. During 2007 Innovation Grants for Malaria
Advocacy were awarded to four organisations in Africa, working in
Nigeria, Congo, Senegal and Uganda. The benefits of GSK’s three
previous behavioural development programmes targeting malaria in
eight African countries continue to be seen.Business review
Corporate responsibility and community investment
continued
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 25
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tnemtsevni
ytinummoc
dna
ytilibisnopser
etaroproC
PHASE Education initiatives
The PHASE programme (Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education), During 2007, GSK continued to support the Institute for a
initiated by GSK in 1998, is now providing education to thousands of Competitive Workforce, a business coalition staffed by the Business
school children in Kenya, Uganda, Zambia, Nicaragua, Peru, Mexico, Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce. This is
Tajikistan and Bangladesh to improve their health and hygiene to aimed at improving education and creating a skilled workforce for
fight infectious diseases. In 2007, the Group committed three year the future.
funding of over $1.8 million to extend the programme to Indonesia
GSK also supports a range of local initiatives in the USA. For example
and Bolivia in partnership with Save the Children, USA. This also
‘Science in the Summer’, a free library-based science education
includes funding to introduce PHASE to the Millennium Village
programme in the Philadelphia area teaching basic scientific concepts,
project which employs science-based interventions to meet the
continued to receive support with a grant of nearly $427,000. GSK
Millennium Development Goals.
has also been a major sponsor of the University of North Carolina’s
Humanitarian product donations travelling science laboratory, Destiny, since its inception in 1999.
During 2007, GSK donated essential products, such as antibiotics, Destiny serves approximately 100 under-served secondary schools
through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, Direct Relief and reaches 4,000 students per year.
International, MAP International and Project HOPE, to support
In 2007, GSK helped to launch the CREST Star Investigators education
humanitarian relief efforts and community healthcare. The total
initiative. This programme has been developed in partnership with
value of the Group’s international humanitarian product donations
the British Association for the Advancement of Science to provide
was £16 million. This excludes albendazole donated as part of
science activities and awards for after school clubs in UK primary
the Group’s commitment to the lymphatic filariasis elimination
schools. 5,000 schools and 55,000 children are expected to be taking
programme. Product donations are valued at wholesale acquisition
part by 2010.
cost, which is the wholesale list price, not including discounts, and is
a standard industry method of valuation. Only 25% of secondary school science teachers in England are
chemistry specialists. Chemistry for Non-Specialists has been
Community initiatives
developed by the Royal Society of Chemistry to train teachers to teach
GSK is dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities through
chemistry with confidence, flair and enthusiasm. GSK is supporting
providing health and education initiatives and support for local civic
the programme with a donation of £450,000 over three years.
and cultural institutions that improve the quality of life.
Employee involvement
GSK’s contribution to improve healthcare includes a grant of almost
GSK employees are encouraged to contribute to their local communities
$3 million over three years to the Children’s Health Fund to expand
through employee volunteering schemes. Support includes employee
their Referral Management Initiative (RMI) to sites in Philadelphia,
time, cash donations to charities where employees volunteer and
including the Delaware Valley Community Health Center. The RMI
matching gift programmes.
ensures continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children
who are often homeless. In 2007 in the USA, the Group matched 16,500 employee and
retiree gifts at a value of $5 million. The Group also matched
2007 marked the tenth anniversary of the annual GlaxoSmithKline
$1.1 million of employee donations to GSK’s annual United
IMPACT Awards to recognise excellence in the work of non-profit
Way campaign. GSK’s GIVE program provided grants of over
community health organisations across the UK and in the Greater
$390,000 to almost 380 organisations where US employees
Philadelphia area of the USA. Each year over 20 charities receive
have volunteered.
unrestricted awards for their work dealing with diverse and difficult
social issues such as domestic violence, sexual health services for GSK’s Making a Difference programme in the UK provided grants
young people, community health support and counselling services. of almost £260,000 to nearly 380 non-profit organisations and
registered charities based on employee involvement.
To further medical research, over £490,000 was provided to three UK
medical charities, Primary Immunodeficiency Association, Research
into Ageing and WellChild.Business review
Global manufacturing and supply
26 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ylppus
dna
gnirutcafunam
labolG
Operational excellence
GSK’s manufacturing operations comprise Within GMS, operational excellence provides the capability to drive
a network of 79 sites in 37 countries and improvements in process robustness, quality, performance and
customer service. Operational excellence is underpinned by extensive employ over 33,000 people.
education and a culture of continuous improvement.
Vision Factory
GSK manufactures a large portfolio of products, ranging from tablets
GSK introduced the Vision Factory initiative to work towards a and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over 28,000
simpler, more efficient operating model within GMS. Vision Factory
different pack sizes and presentations.
is enabling manufacturing operations to accelerate the improvement
Manufacture of medicines starts with the development of a in performance and cost control.
therapeutic active ingredient (bulk active) in a selected formulation.
Quality Global Manufacturing and Supply (GMS) develops manufacturing
The quality organisation oversees product quality across the supply
processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at
chain, from suppliers and third party manufacturers through
primary manufacturing sites. Secondary sites then convert these
manufacturing to the supply operations that deliver products into
active compounds into finished medicines.
the market. The quality organisation focuses on improving quality
Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk actives and and compliance by increasing product quality understanding, and
more than four billion packs, which are sold in over 140 countries. It harmonising the quality approach across all sites.
also supports about 2,000 new product and line extension launches
External suppliers
every year.
GMS spends over £2 billion annually with many external suppliers,
By adopting leading edge practices and developing its people, purchasing active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging
GMS provides: components, and part-finished and finished products. It takes
appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any disruption.
• a secure source of supply of high quality products
• c ompliance with regulatory requirements and Procurement
customer expectations Widely recognised by industry analysts as a best practice leader,
• best in class cost. procurement works collaboratively to develop and implement
sourcing strategies which ensures that GSK receives best value when
Organisation
buying goods and services. GSK leverages its procurement activities
across the Group.
GMS operates as a single global network of 79 sites in 37 countries.
The sites are grouped into four supply divisions, based on common Vaccines supply chain
business drivers, areas of expertise and the commercial activities that GSK’s global vaccine manufacturing network is managed from the
they support. vaccine division’s headquarters in Belgium. By being present in all the
three major regions, GSK aims to ensure effective supply of vaccines
Primary supply
across the globe:
Primary supply has 12 sites in six countries, supplying high quality,
competitively priced bulk actives. The division is focused on • i n Europe, vaccine manufacturing is located primarily at Rixensart
improvements in primary technologies and processes. and Wavre in Belgium, with three other sites in France, Germany
and Hungary where the site is being extended.
New product and global supply
There are 10 new product and global supply sites in seven countries. • in North America, GSK established its vaccine production network
Sites work closely with R&D’s development team to ensure that in 2005 through three major acquisitions. It has a production site in
the right technical competencies are in place to support rapid and Hamilton, Montana manufacturing MPL, a key component of GSK’s
successful new product introduction. These sites also ensure secure novel and proprietary adjuvant systems, a vaccine production site
supply of key brands that are sold across many markets. This division in Marietta, Pennsylvania and flu vaccine manufacturing facilities in
is the focal point for developing and introducing new secondary Laval and Ste Foy, both in Quebec, Canada.
manufacturing technologies for GMS.
• in the International region, new vaccine production facilities are
Regional pharma supply being built in India, Singapore and China where some packaging
Regional pharma supply operates to supply key products in particular activities are already performed in Shanghai.
regions or markets and tailor packaging to meet specific local
Managing the vaccine supply chain involves anticipating market
requirements. This division focuses on reducing costs, allowing GSK
needs and using a flexible approach to be able to meet fluctuations in
to compete more effectively in all its markets. There are 29 regional
demand. These are based on forecasts from the different markets and
pharma supply sites in 22 countries.
firm orders from health authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
Consumer Healthcare supply
Production of bulk vaccines, filling and packaging activities are
Consumer Healthcare supply delivers high-quality, competitively
carefully balanced and planned. Storing of vaccines helps manage
priced products and supports rapid new product introduction in
short-term increases in demand. Such increases can result from disease
a highly innovative and competitive business with far shorter time
outbreaks or increased demand from the public prompted by disease
frames than pharmaceuticals. New technologies have become a
awareness campaigns.
fundamental platform for driving innovation, lowering costs and
providing flexibility in operations. There are 28 sites in 21 countries.Business review
Regulatory environment
The regulatory environment in the International region continues
GSK operates in a highly regulated to evolve. GSK is participating in a number of regional regulatory
environment, encompassing product initiatives, for example in China where proposed changes to the
regulatory framework have provided GSK with an opportunity to
approval, pricing restrictions,
work directly with the State Food Drug Administration (SFDA). GSK
maintenance of intellectual property
continues to include broader sets of patient populations from the
and environmental, health and safety International region in global development programmes in order
responsibilities. to increase global patient access to new innovative medicines and
optimise regulatory approvals.
Price controls
Regulation – Pharmaceuticals In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are
GSK operates within a highly regulated environment. Regional and controlled by law. Governments may also influence prices through
country-specific laws and regulations define the data required to show their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear a
safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products, as well as govern large part of the cost of supplying medicines to consumers.
testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of drugs.
Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France,
These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining
Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
whether a marketable product may be successfully developed and
the amount of time and expense associated with the development. In the USA, recent legislative proposals on healthcare reform, cross-
border trade, the acceleration of generics to market, and comparative
In the USA, the FDA continues to seek to encourage innovation in
effectiveness have further increased the focus on pricing. Currently,
drug development via its Critical Path Initiative and new tools and
there are no government price controls over private sector purchases,
processes are being pursued to enhance development of safe and
but federal law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay
effective drugs. GSK and others in the pharmaceutical industry are
prescribed rebates on certain drugs to be eligible for reimbursement
collaborating with the FDA and National Institutes of Health in a
under Medicaid and other state and federal healthcare programmes.
number of these areas, including evaluation of new biomarkers and
For the 2008 Presidential elections healthcare is one of the leading
benefit/risk assessments.
domestic issues. Though prices are part of the discussions, increasingly
Drug safety remains a primary focus of the FDA and congressional the leading candidates are proposing health reforms to address
oversight committees and, as in Europe, evaluation of benefit and chronic disease as the primary healthcare cost driver.
risk continues to be a paramount consideration for approval of a
Medicare
new drug. New legislation passed in 2007, the FDA Amendments
From 2006, the US Medicare program, a federally funded healthcare
Act, renews the User Fee system for drug reviews and mandates
insurance programme benefiting senior citizens and certain disabled
a rigorous FDA review of safety from approval through the post-
Americans, included coverage for prescription medicines. The
marketing phase of the product. The legislation also provides the
coverage is voluntary, includes brand-name and generic drugs and is
FDA with new tools to require sponsors to complete post-marketing
open to the 41 million Americans with Medicare coverage.
studies and to make labelling changes.
A number of competing private organisations provide the benefit
Regulations requiring development of prescription drugs and
with premiums subsidised by the government. Benefits must satisfy
biologics for paediatric populations were reauthorised by the US
a minimum standard outlined in federal law. While the law provides
Congress in 2007. Similarly in Europe new paediatrics regulation has
incentives for manufacturers to negotiate prices with private health
now been implemented. GSK fully supports the objective of ensuring
insurance plans, it does not provide for government price controls.
the development of better medicines for children.
The government provides additional help to more than 14 million
In Europe, pharmaceutical companies and government regulators people on Medicare with limited incomes and resources. Those
continue to implement the new medicines legislation introduced qualifying beneficiaries pay no or reduced premiums and deductibles,
at the end of 2005. This involves significant changes to the and low co-payments for their prescriptions.
EU regulatory system, including changes to product approval
The benefit has proved to be a marked success. Competition has
procedures, post-marketing requirements, manufacturing controls,
reduced the estimate of total costs made by the Congressional
labelling requirements, pharmacovigilance processes and increased
Budget Office by $387 billion over a ten year period. Recent polls of
transparency of regulatory processes.
Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in the new benefit show satisfaction
EU regulators are also engaged in ‘Better Regulation’ initiatives to rates of 85-89%.
cut red tape and over-regulation of the pharmaceutical industry.
Value for money
GSK welcomes the recognition that unnecessarily burdensome
Payers around the world are concerned about the cost of healthcare
regulatory requirements can damage competitiveness and may
and the pricing of medicines. The requirement to satisfy healthcare
negatively impact public health, and is therefore active in supporting
purchasers on value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for
these initiatives.
product acceptance over and above the regulatory tests of safety,
efficacy and quality.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 27
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tnemnorivne
yrotalugeRBusiness review
Regulatory environment
continued
While it is appropriate for payers to seek value for money when Since the term of a patent in most countries is a set period from
purchasing medicines, this often translates into cost-containment the filing date, typically 20 years, the effective term depends on
measures that delay patient access to new medicines and make it how long a product is in development before launch. This leads to a
difficult even for significantly improved therapies to achieve a price variation in patent term on a product by product basis, although in
that reflects added value. Healthcare budgets could be managed in a a number of markets, including the USA and Europe, it is possible in
more strategic and long-term manner. Focus should shift to value not certain circumstances to obtain a partial restoration of patent term to
cost, and pricing should reflect value. Value should be defined broadly. compensate for the length of the development process.
What matters is whether a medicine works and responds to medical
The patent position with respect to the active ingredients in significant
and patient needs. If so, it should be rewarded appropriately.
products is as follows:
Payers must also allocate their resources efficiently to provide the
Advair/Seretide. The patent on the specific combination of salmeterol
best health outcomes. Attention should be focused in three areas:
xinafoate and fluticasone propionate is not due to expire until 2010
prevention, innovation and better management of chronic diseases. (USA) and 2013b (Europe). The US Patent has been re-issued by the
As part of this triple solution, innovative medicines and vaccines will US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)e. Litigation under patents
play a key role by preventing, or providing better treatments for protecting the product is ongoing in certain European marketse.
expensive diseases such as cervical cancer, breast cancer, asthma,
The UK patent has been revoked by the UK courts. Patents on the
Alzheimer’s and diabetes.
individual ingredients have expired except the patents on salmeterol
It is not possible to predict whether and to what extent, the Group’s xinafoate in the USA (August 2008), France (December 2008), and
business will be affected by future legislative and regulatory developments Italy (2009).
relating to specific pharmaceutical products or their price.
Avandia, Avandamet and Avandaryl. The patent on rosiglitazone is
not due to expire until 2012a,c (USA) and 2013b (Europe). Patents on
Regulation – Consumer Healthcare
the commercial form of the active ingredient rosiglitazone maleate
The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation are not due to expire until 2015 (USA) and 2014b (Europe). Litigation
for the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of challenging the validity of the patents protecting these products in
products. In many countries, high standards of technical appraisal the USAe has been settled on terms allowing for generic entry late
involve a lengthy approval process before a new product is launched. in the first quarter 2012e.
National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the switch Avodart. The patent on dutasteride is not due to expire until 2015a
of products from prescription to OTC. The requirements include long- (USA) and 2017b (Europe). Litigation challenging the validity of the
term experience of the quality, safety and efficacy of the product patent protecting this product in the USA is ongoinge.
in a wide patient population and data to confirm that the relevant Avamys/Veramyst. The patent on fluticasone furoate is not due to
condition is both self-limiting and easily diagnosed by the consumer. expire until 2021 in the USA and 2022 in Europe.
Boniva. GSK has co-promotion rights under the patent on
Intellectual property
ibandronate which is not due to expire until 2012a (USA) and 2011b
Intellectual property is a key business asset for GSK. The effective legal (Europe). Litigation challenging the validity of the patent protecting
protection of intellectual property is critical in ensuring a reasonable this product is ongoing in the USAe.
return on investment in R&D. Intellectual property can be protected
Combivir. The patent on the specific combination of lamivudine
by patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain
and zidovudine is not due to expire until 2012 (USA) and 2013b
name registrations.
(Europe). Litigation challenging the validity of the patent protecting
Certain markets, including the USA, the EU and Canada also the combination is ongoing in the USAe.
provide a period of regulatory data exclusivity to qualifying drugs
Coreg. GSK is the exclusive licensee under the US patent on carvedilol,
which are new chemical entities or which are new formulations
which expired in 2007a,c. Coreg CR is protected by a formulation
or uses of marketed drugs. Manufacturers of generic drugs may,
patent that is not due to expire in the USA until 2016, and a patent
following any period of data exclusivity, launch, or attempt to launch,
on the active form carvedilol phosphate that is not due to expire until
generic versions of patented drugs prior to normal patent expiry,
2023. Litigation challenging the validity of the patent on the active
arguing that the relevant patents are invalid and/or are not
form is ongoing in the USAe.
infringed by their product. Significant litigation concerning these
challenges is summarised in Note 44 to the financial statements, Epivir. The patent on lamivudine is not due to expire until 2010a,c
‘Legal proceedings’. (USA) and 2011b (Europe).
Patents Imigran/Imitrex. The patent on sumatriptan is not due to expire
GSK’s policy is to seek to obtain patent protection on all protectable until 2009c (USA) and has expired in Europe (except Italy (December
inventions discovered or developed through its R&D activities. Patent 2008)). Litigation challenging the validity of the patent protecting
protection for new active ingredients is available in most significant this product in the USA has been settled allowing generic entry in
markets, and protection can also be obtained for example for new the fourth quarter 2008.
pharmaceutical formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses Lamictal. The patent on lamotrigine is not due to expire until 2009a,c
and special devices for administering products. Patents protecting
(USA). Litigation challenging the validity of this patent in the USA
new active ingredients are generally applied for early in the
has been settled on terms allowing for generic entry of tablet forms
development process.
in mid-2008. In Europe, the corresponding patent has expired and
generic competition exists.
28 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tnemnorivne
yrotalugeRBusiness review
Regulatory environment
continued
Levitrad. GSK has co-promotion rights under the US patent on
vardenafil, which is not due to expire until 2018.
Lexiva/Telzir. GSK is the exclusive licensee under the patent on
fosamprenavir, which is not due to expire until 2017 (USA) and
2019b (Europe).
Lovaza. The formulation of omega-3 acid ethyl esters is protected by
a patent that expires in the USA in 2018.
Paxil/Seroxat. The patent on the commercial form of paroxetine has
expired and generic competition exists on Paxil instant release (IR)
forms in the USA, Europe and other markets. Litigation relating to
patents protecting the product is ongoing in the USAe. Paxil CR is
protected by a patent issued in June 2007 relating to a delayed and
controlled release formulation of paroxetine hydrochloride. Litigation
relating to this patent has been settled on terms allowing for generic
entry on all strengths of Paxil CR no later than fourth quarter 2008e.
Requip. The patent on ropinirole expired in 2007a in the USA and is
due to expire in November 2008b in Europe. A patent relating to the
use of ropinirole in Parkinson’s disease is not due to expire until May
2008 (USA) and 2011b (Europe). Litigation challenging the validity of
the Parkinson’s use patent in the USA has been dismissed by the court,
and generic entry is not expected until after expiry of the patent in
May 2008e.
Serevent. The patent on salmeterol xinafoate expires in August 2008
in the USA. In Europe, the patent has expired, except in France
(December 2008b) and Italy (2009b).
Trizivir. The patent on the method of treatment using a combination
of lamivudine, zidovudine and abacavir does not expire until 2016
(USA) and 2016 (Europe).
Tykerb/Tyverb. The Patent on lapatinib is not due to expire until 2020a
in the USA and 2022b in Europe.
Valtrex. The patent on valaciclovir is not due to expire until 2009a
(USA) and 2009b (Europe, except Greece and Spain (August 2008)).
Litigation challenging the validity of the patent in the USA has been
settled on terms allowing for generic entry in late 2009e.
Wellbutrin SR, Wellbutrin XL and Zyban. The patent on the active
ingredient has expired. There is now generic competition for the
sustained release (SR) instant release (IR) and 300mg dosage form of
Wellbutrin XL in the USA. Litigation in the USA relating to formulation
patents covering Wellbutrin XL has been settled on terms allowing
generic entry for the 150mg form in 2008. In Europe, regulatory data
exclusivity provides protection until 2009 in some markets.
Ziagen. The patent on abacavir is not due to expire until 2012a,c
(USA) and 2014b (Europe).
Zofran. The patent on ondansetron has expired in the USA
and Europe, (except Italy (November 2008b)). A patent on use in
treating emesis has also expired. Generic competition exists in the
USA, Europe and other markets.
a) Including granted or pending patent term restoration under the Hatch-Waxman Act
b) Including granted or pending extension of term by national or European
supplementary protection certificates
c) Including granted or pending extension of term for paediatric exclusivity
d) A registered trademark of Bayer AG
e) See Note 44 to financial statements ‘Legal proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 29
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tnemnorivne
yrotalugeR
Trademarks
All of GSK’s pharmaceutical products are protected by registered
trademarks in major markets. There may be local variations, for
example, in the USA the trademark Paxil is used instead of Seroxat
and Advair is used instead of Seretide.
Trademark protection may generally be extended for as long as the
trademark is used by renewing it when necessary. GSK’s trademarks
on pharmaceutical products are important for maintaining the brand
identity of the product upon expiration of the patent.
The Consumer Healthcare trademarks are particularly important, as
the business is very brand oriented and many products do not have
patent protection.
Responsibility for environment, health and safety
Environment, health and safety (EHS) is a key element of corporate
responsibility for the Group and has a high priority. Responsibility for
EHS is at the highest level. There is a corporate department reporting
to the General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing
governance and leadership on EHS issues. The head of this department
makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team (CET) and the
Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board. Within
the businesses all executives and managers are responsible for EHS
and are supported by site-based EHS and occupational medical staff.
EHS strategy and plan
GSK has a 10-year strategic plan for EHS that extends to 2015 with
annual action plans. The plan is aligned with the GSK business drivers
and includes management objectives with performance measures
and targets. In 2007, GSK’s progress was evaluated against the
targets set in 2006.
The focus for 2007 was EHS Stewardship which is about building a
sustainable business. It involves caring for the present while thinking to
the future in making decisions. This supports all three aspirations in the
2006 to 2015 plan – embedding EHS in the business, environmental
sustainability and open and transparent stakeholder relations.
Accomplishments in 2007
• C limate change: A comprehensive strategy on climate change and
energy efficiency was approved and is available on GSK’s website.
A climate change and energy reduction team has been formed to
manage a special fund which is used to support climate change
projects. The team identified more than 400 projects for 2007 and
2008 to reduce energy consumption and to increase GSK’s use of
renewable energy.
• M anufacturing efficiency: In the ongoing effort to improve the
efficiency of manufacturing processes and therefore significantly
decrease both the purchase of raw materials and the production
of waste, GSK has selected the best candidate medicines for
improvement. The mass efficiency of processes in development
continues to improve and progress is being made to achieve the
target to double mass efficiency and thereby halve the waste per
unit of product for the manufacturing processes for all phase III
compounds by 2010. Late stage products have been evaluated
since 2005 for efficiency with an improvement to 2.8% on average.
Certain marketed products, with a known market potential, have
also been selected for improvement of the efficiency of their
manufacturing processes.Business review
Regulatory environment
continued
• Workplace chemical exposure: Occupational hygiene Most of the measures selected are similar to those reported by other
measurements have been completed for over 50% of GSK tasks companies and are recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative, a
involving exposure to the most potent materials. Most results long-term, multi-stakeholder, international undertaking, to develop and
show that exposures are adequately controlled by the respiratory disseminate globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
protective equipment worn, with 9% verified as “respirator free”
Targets have been set to eliminate chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) from all
meaning respiratory protection is not necessary. Immediate action
uses by 2010 and each year to reduce non-hazardous waste disposed
was taken to control exposures in the few instances where levels
by 1%, reduce water use and volatile organic compound (VOC)
were found to be higher than predicted. Manufacturing sites have
releases to air by 2%, reduce pollution of wastewater, measured
a target of 80% respirator free by the end of 2010.
as chemical oxygen demand, by 3% and reduce energy usage and
• Process safety: GSK’s Process Safety Management System is being related greenhouse gas emissions by 1%. During the year, a further
enhanced, with new engineering standards and training programmes target was set to reduce energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions
under development. The standards will be used to design new by 20% by 2010 and 45% by 2015. All targets are normalised by
process plant and to upgrade existing plants where needed. The sales based on a constant exchange rate.
training programmes will increase process safety awareness and
In 2007, GSK remained on track to eliminate the use of CFCs by
competencies for engineers, chemists and managers.
2010 and to meet its 2010 targets for energy use and related
• External stakeholders: In addition to the ongoing UK stakeholder greenhouse gas emissions. Progress towards the 2010 energy and
group meeting in March, a panel of US stakeholders met in October related greenhouse gas emissions target is expected to accelerate
to provide input on EHS issues from a US perspective. In a benchmark in 2008 and beyond. The annual targets were met for reduction in
assessment of environmental programmes, carried out by the UK water use and wastewater pollution. GSK did not meet its targets
charity, Business in the Environment, GSK was ranked with the top for non-hazardous waste disposal or VOC releases to air. In the case
companies. GSK is also included in both the FTSE 4Good index and of non-hazardous waste disposal, this was because there was an
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. 83% increase in solid waste disposal in the vaccines business due
to its expansion programme in the development and launch of
EHS audits
new vaccines. In the case of VOC releases, this was because, due
As part of its governance responsibility, GSK conducts EHS audits of its
to product mix changes, solvent recovery equipment at some of
sites, operating entities and key suppliers, assessing the management
the manufacturing sites was inadequate to completely capture and
of key risks and impacts and performance against GSK’s global EHS
recycle certain solvents used in the manufacturing process.
standards. This includes providing audited sites with quantitative
performance information as well as highlighting areas for risk reduction Final EHS performance data for 2007 with explanations of the
and improvement. In 2007, 33 operating entities were audited, 17 of trends will be published in the Corporate Responsibility report on
these achieved audit scores of 80% or better, which reflects our long GSK’s website.
term goal to have all of our sites score above 95%. No site scored less
Sustainability
than 50% but seven critical findings were raised. These have been
In working towards sustainability, GSK is addressing the economic,
corrected. To ensure continuous improvement, progress was monitored
environmental and social issues in research, manufacturing, sales and
on corrective and preventive action plans arising from all audits.
distribution of its medicines and consumer healthcare and nutritionals
As part of the commitment to corporate responsibility and the products. Sustainability starts with healthcare solutions found by
proactive management of the GSK manufacturing and supply base, R&D and continues with innovations to improve the efficiency of
55 current and potential suppliers were also assessed. This process manufacturing processes for new products. This reduces resource
evaluated the management of key EHS risks and impacts, including use which in turn lowers waste and cost. With lower cost our
fire and explosion risks, aspects of process safety and loss prevention, products can be available to a wider population around the world.
control of exposure to hazardous substances and environmental In the future, the EHS plan for excellence proposes investigating the
protection as well as core human rights issues, based on the Group’s use of renewable resources in manufacturing.
requirements for suppliers. Recommendations were made for
The Group seeks dialogue with external stakeholders and considers
improvements where needed and 75% of the potential suppliers
their views when developing approaches to sustainable development.
failed to achieve GSK’s recommendations. GSK plans to partner only
More information on EHS programmes and performance may be
with the successful candidates to improve their overall environment,
found on GSK’s website.
health, safety and loss prevention performance.
EHS targets
As part of the EHS plan, targets are set every five years with 2006 as
the baseline year for the targets to 2010.
GSK selected its measures of performance improvement based
on the potential for adverse impact on people, the environment,
business continuity or business reputation.
30 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tnemnorivne
yrotalugeRBusiness review
World market
World economy World market – pharmaceuticals
The global economy continued to be broadly positive during 2007, Global pharmaceutical sales in 2007 were £329 billion compared with
buoyed by growth in developing markets such as China, although the £328 billion in 2006.
mortgage-related issues in the USA had an adverse effect in several
countries. World Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth eased from World market by Value % of Growth
geographic region £bn total £%
3.9% in 2006 to 3.6%. The International Monetary Fund forecasts
global GDP growth to be 4.1% in 2008. USA 140.8 43 (3)
Europe 97.6 30 5
Equity markets struggled in 2007, against a backdrop of record-
France 18.6 6 5
breaking oil prices and continued concerns over the situations in
Germany 17.2 5 3
Iraq and Afghanistan. Oil prices, which averaged $71 per barrel
UK 11.3 3 5
throughout the year, rose to $100 later in the year. Inflation in the
Italy 10.3 3 (2)
OECD countries was 1.9% but is expected to increase to 2.5% in
Japan 28.6 9 (9)
2008.
Asia Pacific 24.6 7 10
The US economy weakened significantly, led by a slump in new Latin America 16.5 5 7
housing starts and exacerbated by the sub-prime lending crisis. GDP Middle East, Africa 12.4 4 4
growth slowed from 2.9% in 2006 to 2.2% in 2007 and many
Canada 8.3 2 –
analysts expect it to fall below the 2% mark during 2008. The Dow
Total 328.8 100 –
Jones Industrial Index gained 6.4% over the period while interest
rates dropped by 1% to 4.25% before a significant cut in January
The US market has decreased by 3%, but it still represents 43% of
2008 took them down to 3%. In 2007, the US dollar continued to
the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with 30%
decline against both the Euro and Sterling. Having fallen throughout
a decade ago.
the year, the US dollar was worth less than 50p in November, its
lowest point since 1992. At 30th September 2007, GSK held second position in the world
pharmaceutical market with a market share of 5.9%, behind Pfizer
The Chinese economy continued to make sound progress, growing
with a market share of 7%. GSK had four of the world’s top 60
by 11.3% during 2007. Growth is forecast to dip slightly in 2008,
pharmaceutical products. These were Avandia, Lamictal, Seretide/Advair
particularly as problems in the USA may impact on demand for
and Valtrex.
Chinese exports. In Japan, GDP was 1.9% and the Nikkei 225 fell
by 11.1% during the year, marking its first annual decline in five World market – Value % of Growth
years. The Indian and Brazilian economies both achieved double-digit top six therapeutic classes £bn total £%
growth in 2007.
Central nervous system 54.4 17 1
In the Eurozone, GDP growth slowed from 3.3% in 2006 to 2.7% Cardiovascular 50.7 15 (6)
and is expected to fall to 1.9% in 2008. France expanded by 1.8% Alimentary tract and metabolic 39.7 12 (1)
in 2007, Germany by 2.5%, the UK by 3.1% and Spain by 3.3%. Antineoplastic/Immunomodulatory 35.6 11 8
European Central Bank interest rates closed the year at 4%, up 0.5% Anti-infectives (bacterial, 32.9 10 (1)
on the end of 2006. UK rates started the year at 5%, rose in three viral and fungal) excluding
steps to 5.75% and fell back to 5.5% at the year-end while the vaccines
FTSE 100 Index gained just 3.8%, its weakest annual performance Respiratory 22.1 7 2
since 2003.
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2007)
Exchange
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In 2007, the US dollar fell by 2% against Sterling, to $1.99 at the
year-end. The year-end rates for the Euro strengthened by 8% and
the Japanese Yen by 5% against Sterling.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 31
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tekram
dlroWBusiness review
Products and competition
Requip is a specific dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist indicated for the
Both the prescription pharmaceutical
treatment of Parkinson’s disease and Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS).
and consumer healthcare industries are
Anti-virals
highly competitive. Despite being the
Combivir, a combination of Retrovir and Epivir, has consolidated
second largest pharmaceutical company the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the
in the world, GSK has only a 5.9% share cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens. Physician
acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on minimising
of the world market.
the pill burden faced by patients.
Ziagen is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor. The product’s potency,
Pharmaceutical products
ease of use and resistance profile allow it to play a significant role
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products are currently directed in a variety of highly active, well tolerated and simplified HIV
to eight main therapeutic areas. An analysis of sales by therapeutic area, treatment regimens.
with a description of the principal products, is set out below:
Trizivir is a combination of Combivir and Ziagen, combining three
2007 2006 2005 anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice-daily administration.
Turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Epzicom/Kivexa, approved for use in the USA and Europe, is a
Respiratory 5,032 4,995 5,054
combination of Epivir and Ziagen that is taken as one tablet with
Central nervous system 3,348 3,642 3,219
once-daily dosing for HIV/AIDS in combination with at least one
Anti-virals 3,028 2,827 2,598
other anti-HIV drug.
Metabolic 1,514 1,875 1,495
Vaccines 1,993 1,692 1,389 Lexiva/Telzir is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV that is well
Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,554 1,636 1,331 tolerated and more convenient than Agenerase, which it supersedes.
Anti-bacterials/anti-malarials 1,330 1,369 1,519 Lexiva may be taken twice-daily or once-daily when boosted
Oncology and emesis 477 1,069 1,016 with ritonavir.
Other 957 973 1,040
Zeffix has been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China
19,233 20,078 18,661 and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
Products and all their formulations may not be approved for all Valtrex is a treatment for episodic genital herpes as well as the long
indications in all markets where they are available. term suppression and reduction of transmission of genital herpes,
zoster (shingles), cold sores and chicken pox. Valtrex supersedes
Respiratory
Zovirax, which is also used to treat herpes infections.
Seretide/Advair, a combination of Serevent and Flixotide, offers
a long-acting bronchodilator and an anti-inflammatory in a single Metabolic
inhaler. It is approved for the treatment of asthma and COPD. Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the
underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes.
Flixotide/Flovent and Becotide/Beclovent are inhaled steroids for the
treatment of inflammation associated with asthma and COPD. Avandamet is a combination of Avandia and metformin HCI that
targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose production in one
Serevent is a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and
convenient pill.
COPD, and Ventolin is a selective short-acting bronchodilator used
to treat bronchospasm. Avandaryl/Avaglim is a combination of Avandia and Amaryl, a Sanofi-
Aventis product. Avandaryl/Avaglym targets insulin resistance and
Veramyst/Avamys, Flixonase/Flonase and Beconase are steroid intra-
stimulates pancreatic insulin production.
nasal preparations for the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
Bonviva/Boniva is a long-acting bisphosphonate available in once-
Central nervous system (CNS)
monthly oral and quarterly injection forms for the treatment
Seroxat/Paxil is a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) for the
of osteoporosis (co-promoted with Roche).
treatment of major depressive disorder, panic, obsessive compulsive
disorder, post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder and Vaccines
generalised anxiety disorder. A controlled release formulation, Paxil GSK markets over 30 vaccines worldwide, of which more than half
CR, is available in the USA. are combination vaccines to protect children, adolescents and/or
adults against up to six diseases at the same time.
Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA and many
European and international markets in normal, sustained-release (SR) Infanrix is GSK’s range of paediatric vaccine combinations. Infanrix
and once-daily (XL) formulations. provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (whooping
cough). Infanrix penta (Europe)/Pediarix (USA, Canada) provides additional
Imigran/Imitrex is a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment
protection against hepatitis B and polio. Infanrix hexa adds protection
of severe or frequent migraine and cluster headache and has become
against Haemophilus influenzae type b, which is a cause of meningitis.
the reference product in this sector. Naramig/Amerge is also a 5HT1
Boostrix is available to add protection against pertussis (whopping cough)
receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of migraine.
to the routine tetanus/diptheria booster administered to teenagers.
Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is also indicated
In GSK’s hepatitis vaccines range, Havrix protects against hepatitis A
for bipolar disorder.
and Engerix-B against hepatitis B.
32 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
noititepmoc
dna
stcudorPBusiness review
Products and competition
continued
Twinrix is the only available combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, Fraxiparine is a low-molecular weight heparin indicated for prophylaxis
protecting against both diseases with one vaccine and available in of thromboembolic disorders (particularly deep vein thrombosis and
both adult and paediatric strengths. In Europe, FENDrix, a vaccine to pulmonary embolism) in general surgery and in orthopedic surgery,
prevent hepatitis B in patients with renal insufficiency including high- treatment of deep vein thrombosis and prevention of clotting
risk groups such as pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients, is during haemodialysis.
available from 15 years of age onwards.
Integrilin is a GP IIb-IIIa inhibitor, approved in the EU for the prevention
GSK added Fluviral to its portfolio of products when it acquired of early myocardial infarction in patients with unstable angina or
the Canadian vaccine manufacturer ID Biomedical Corporation in non-Q-wave MI.
December 2005. Fluviral is marketed in Canada and, following FDA
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
approval, the USA where it is approved for the active immunisation
Augmentin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the treatment
of adults 18 years and older against influenza disease under the
of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is particularly
brand FluLaval. Fluviral and FluLaval add to Fluarix GSK’s seasonal ‘flu
effective against respiratory tract infections. Augmentin ES-600 is
vaccine, which is distributed in 79 countries including the USA.
an extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat children
GSK also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, with recurrent or persistent middle ear infections. Augmentin XR is
Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid fever, and Varilrix, an extended release formulation for the treatment of patients with
a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox. Priorix-Tetra, GSK’s new community acquired pneumonia or acute bacterial sinusitis.
combination vaccine to prevent measles, mumps, rubella and
Altabax/Altargo, approved in 2007 for the topical treatment of
varicella (MMRV) was first launched in Germany in August 2006.
certain bacterial skin infections, represents the first new class of
In addition, the Group markets a range of vaccines to prevent
topical antibiotics approved by the FDA in nearly two decades.
meningitis under the umbrella name Mencevax. GSK’s new Hib-
MenC vaccine, Menitorix is now available in the UK. GSK’s meningitis Ceftin/Zinnat is an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-
vaccine portfolio will be complemented by new meningitis conjugate acquired infections of the lower respiratory tract.
vaccines in the near future.
Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and
As part of its paediatric franchise, GSK continued to roll out the prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
launch of its vaccine against rotavirus induced gastroenteritis,
Oncology and emesis
Rotarix, which is now launched in 90 countries worldwide. Rotavirus
Tykerb is an oral treatment for patients with advanced or metastatic
vaccination has been included in the national vaccination calendar
breast cancer whose tumours overexpress HER2 and who have
of five Latin American countries where Rotarix will be available
received prior therapy including an anthracycline, a taxane and
free at public health clinics, as part of governmental paediatric
trastuzumab. Tykerb was approved in the USA in 2007 and is
immunisation programmes.
submitted for European approval.
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Hycamtin is a second line treatment for ovarian, cervical and small
Coreg is an alpha/beta blocker which has been proven to be effective
cell lung cancer.
in treating patients with mild, moderate and severe heart failure,
heart attack or hypertension. GSK has sole marketing rights in the Bexxar is a treatment for patients with CD20 follicular, non-
USA and Canada. A controlled release formulation, Coreg CR is also Hodgkin’s lymphoma with and without transformation whose
available in the USA. Generic versions of Coreg are available in the disease is refractory to rituximab and who have relapsed
USA and Canada. following chemotherapy.
Levitra is a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction. Arranon (nelarabine) a treatment for patients with T-cell acute
GSK has co-promotion rights in the USA and more than 20 lymphoblastic leukaemia and T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma.
other markets.
Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with
Avodart is a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in both
hyperplasia. A large clinical study is underway examining its efficacy oral and injectable forms. It is also approved for use in the prevention
in reducing the risk of prostate cancer. and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
Vesicare is an anti-muscarinic indicated for overactive bladder. GSK has Other
co-promotion rights with Astellas in the USA. Its major competitors This category includes Betnovate, the higher potency Dermovate
are Detrol LA, Ditropan XL/generic oxybutynin, and Enablex. and the newer Cutivate, which are topical anti-inflammatory steroid
products used to treat skin diseases such as eczema and psoriasis,
Arixtra, a selective Factor Xa inhibitor, is indicated for the treatment of
Relafen, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for the treatment of
deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) and for the
arthritis, and Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a
prevention of DVT and PE in patients undergoing major orthopaedic
range of gastric acid related disorders.
surgery, abdominal surgery and acutely ill medical patients (EU only).
Also in the EU, Arixtra is indicated for the treatment of patients with
acute coronary (unstable angina, NSTEMI and STEMI).
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 33
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
noititepmoc
dna
stcudorPBusiness review
Products and competition
continued
Pharmaceuticals competition Anti-virals
GSK is a pioneer in the HIV market, launching AZT (Retrovir) in 1987
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. GSK’s principal
and Epivir in 1995, which today are available as Combivir in a single
competitors range from small to large pharmaceutical companies
tablet, a cornerstone of HIV combination therapy. The launches of
often with substantial resources. Some of these companies and their
Ziagen, Agenerase, Trizivir, Lexiva and Epzicom have broadened the
major products are mentioned below.
Group’s portfolio of HIV products. Major competitors in the HIV
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other products market include Gilead, Bristol Myers Squibb, Abbott, Roche and
during the period of patent protection and, once off patent, from Boehringer Ingelheim.
generic versions. The manufacturers of generic products typically
Valtrex has strengthened the Group’s position in the anti-herpes
do not bear significant research and development or education and
area, where GSK’s Valtrex and Zovirax compete with Novartis’ Famvir.
marketing development costs and consequently are able to offer their
Valtrex is a market leader, whilst Zovirax faces competition from
products at considerably lower prices than the branded competitors.
generic acyclovir. In the hepatitis B market, GSK’s Zeffix was the first
A research and development based pharmaceutical company will
anti-viral on the market. Gilead’s Hepsera was the second. The Group
normally seek to achieve a sufficiently high profit margin and sales
has secured marketing rights to Hepsera in some key markets.
volume during the period of patent protection to repay the original
investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research Metabolic
for the future. Competition from generic products generally occurs The major competitor for Avandia is Takeda Chemical’s Actos,
as patents in major markets expire. Increasingly patent challenges are whose co-promotion with Eli Lilly in the USA ended in 2007. Takeda
made prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent is not also market Actoplusmet/Competact (a combination of metformin
valid and/or that it is not infringed by the generic product. Following HCI and Actos) in the USA and some EU markets and DuetAct (a
the loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly capture a large combination of glimepiride and Actos) in the USA.
share of the market, particularly in the USA.
Monthly Boniva/Bonviva competes with Merck’s weekly Fosamax
GSK believes that remaining competitive is dependent upon the and Proctor & Gamble/Sanofi-Aventis’ twice-monthly Actonel,
discovery and development of new products, together with effective and Novartis’ Reclast/Aclasta which is dosed as an annual infusion.
marketing of existing products. Within the pharmaceutical industry, Generic Fosamax (alendronate) is now available in many markets,
the introduction of new products and processes by competitors including the USA, UK, Germany and Canada.
may affect pricing levels or result in changing patterns of product
Vaccines
use. There can be no assurance that products will not become
The vaccine market is dominated by five key players. GSK’s major
outmoded, notwithstanding patent or trademark protection. In
competitors are Sanofi Pasteur (SP), Merck, Novartis and Wyeth.
addition, increased government and other pressures for physicians
Within the paediatric vaccine field, Infanrix’s main competitor is SP’s
and patients to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-
range of DTPa-based combination vaccines, although the Infanrix hexa
name medicines, may increase competition for products that are no
combination is the only available hexavalent paediatric combination in
longer protected by patent.
Europe. Merck and the joint venture between Merck and SP in Europe
Respiratory market two new vaccines against rotavirus induced infection and HPV,
GSK’s respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of Seretide/Advair. that respectively compete against Rotarix and Cervarix.
Major respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially
Cardiovascular and urogenital
in the USA, Symbicort from AstraZeneca and Spiriva from Pfizer/
GSK markets Coreg in the USA where its major competitors are Toprol XL
Boehringer Ingelheim.
and generic betablockers. Avodart competes directly with Merck’s Proscar
CNS disorders within the BPH (enlarged prostate) market. The Group has co-promotion
Major competitors in the USA to Paxil are its generic forms, as well rights in the USA for Levitra, which faces competition from Pfizer’s Viagra
as generic fluoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lilly’s Prozac, generic and Lilly’s Cialis. The major competitor for Arixtra is the low molecular
sertraline, the generic form of Pfizer’s Zoloft, Cymbalta from Eli Lilly, weight heparin enoxaparin, a product marketed by Sanofi-Aventis.
Forest Laboratories’ Celexa and Lexapro, and Effexor XR from Wyeth.
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrin are generic forms
Generic versions of both Augmentin and Ceftin/Zinnat are available
of bupropion, the generic forms of SSRIs, Lexapro, Effexor XR, and
in the USA. Augmentin also faces generic competition in various
Cymbalta. Generic competition for Seroxat/Paxil has also occurred in
European countries. Augmentin XR and Augmentin ES compete
a number of other markets.
against a broad range of other branded and generic antibiotics.
The major competitors for Lamictal in epilepsy are J&J’s Dilantin Malarone’s safety profile and convenient dosing regimen have
and generic phenytoin, Novartis’ egretol/Tegretol XR and generic helped put this product in a strong position versus mefloquine for
carbamazepine. UCB’s Keppra and Abbot’s Depakote/Depakote malaria prophylaxis.
ER. In bipolar the major competitors are generic lithium, other
Altabax/Altargo competes in the topical antibiotic market against a
anti-epileptics including Abbott’s Depakote/Depakote ER and the
number of generic competitors, including generic mupirocin and
atypical anti-psychotics including AstraZeneca’s Seroquel. The major
fusidic acid. Altabax/Altargo’s offers less frequent and shorter duration
competitors for Imitrex/Imigran are AstraZeneca’s Zomig, Merck’s of therapy and lack of cross resistance to other established classes of
Maxalt and Pfizer’s Relpax. anti-bacterials.
34 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
noititepmoc
dna
stcudorPBusiness review
Products and competition
continued
Oncology and emesis Over-the-counter medicines
Major competitors in the diverse therapeutic market include Roche/ The leading products are Panadol, a widely available paracetamol/
Genentech, Novartis, Sanofi-Aventis and Bristol Myers Squibb. acetaminophen analgesic, Nicorette gum in the USA, the NicoDerm,
GSK’s therapeutic portfolio led by the recently approved Tykerb and NiQuitin CQ and Nicabate range of smoking control products, Tums,
Hycamtin, currently holds a relatively small market position. Zofran a calcium-based antacid, Citrucel laxative, Contac for the treatment
provided GSK with a leadership position in the anti-emetic market of colds, Abtei, a natural medicines and vitamin range, and Zovirax
where competitor companies include Roche, MGI and Merck. and Abreva for the treatment of cold sores. Recent additions to the
Generic competitors became available late in 2006. portfolio include Breathe Right nasal strips that gently lift open nasal
passages to provide better breathing, and FiberChoice daily fibre
Consumer Healthcare products supplements, through the acquisition of CNS, Inc. in 2006, and the
switch of orlistat from prescription-only status in the United States to
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal consumer healthcare products are in three
over-the-counter, marketed as the weight control product, alli.
major areas. An analysis of sales by these areas is set out below:
Oral care
2007 2006 2005
The leading Oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes
£m £m £m
under the Aquafresh, Odol, Sensodyne and Macleans brand names,
OTC medicines 1,718 1,496 1,437
and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh and Dr Best
Oral care 1,049 993 943
names. In addition, denture care products are available principally
Nutritional healthcare 716 658 619
under the Polident, Poligrip and Corega brand names.
3,483 3,147 2,999
Nutritional healthcare
The leading products in this category are Lucozade energy and sports
Major products, which are not necessarily sold in all markets, are:
drinks, Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink, and Horlicks, a range
Category Product of milk-based malted food and chocolate drinks.
Over-the-counter medicines
Consumer Healthcare competition
Analgesics Panadol
Dermatologicals Zovirax GSK holds leading global positions in all its key consumer product
Abreva areas. Worldwide it is the third largest in Oral care and in OTC
External nasal dilators Breathe Right medicines. In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading position in
Gastro-intestinal Tums the UK, India and Ireland.
Citrucel
The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business
Respiratory tract Contac
operates has become ever more challenging:
Beechams
Smoking control Commit • consumers are demanding better quality, better value and
Nicorette improved performance
NicoDerm CQ
• r etailers have consolidated and globalised which has strengthened
NiQuitin CQ
their negotiation power
Nicabate CQ
• manufacturers are consolidating, leading to more aggressive
Natural wellness support Abtei
competition across all elements of the marketing mix
FiberChoice
Weight control alli • c ycle times for innovation have reduced.
Oral healthcare Aquafresh The main competitors include the major international companies
Dr Best Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Unilever
Macleans and Wyeth. In addition, there are many other companies that
Odol compete with GSK in certain markets.
Polident The major competitor products in OTC medicines are:
Poligrip
• in the USA: Metamucil (laxative), Pepcid (indigestion) and private
Sensodyne
label smoking control products
Nutritional healthcare Lucozade
• i n the UK: Lemsip (cold remedy), Nurofen and Anadin (analgesics),
Ribena
and Nicorette and Nicotinell (smoking control treatments).
Horlicks
In Oral care the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolive’s Colgate
and Procter & Gamble’s Crest.
In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are
Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. The competitors
to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Lucozade
competes with other energy drinks.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 35
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
noititepmoc
dna
stcudorP36 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
7002
weiver
laicnaniF
Business review
Financial review 2007
CNS
GSK turnover grew 2% in 2007, and
CNS sales decreased 2% to £3.3 billion. Sales decreased in the
business performance EPS grew 10% to USA and Europe, reflecting generic competition to Seroxat/Paxil
99.1p. The dividend was raised 10% to 53p. in both regions. International sales grew 6% which included 4%
growth in Paxil in Japan. Total Seroxat/Paxil sales declined 6% to
Share repurchases were £3.8 billion in 2007,
£553 million. Total Wellbutrin sales declined 37% to £529 million,
with a further £6 billion expected in 2008.
owing to US generic competition to Wellbutrin SR/IR and Wellbutrin
XL 300mg tablet.
Pharmaceutical turnover
Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder,
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant grew 18% to £1.1 billion, driven by sales in the USA which were up
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. Sterling growth rates may 26% to £892 million, benefiting from its new indication. Lamictal is
be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area also the only medicine with long-term clinical data that demonstrates
on page 37 and by geographic region on page 38. Total pharmaceutical that it can delay the onset of depressive episodes of bipolar disorder.
turnover in 2007 was £19,233 million compared with £20,078 million GSK expects to respond to the US FDA’s approvable letter for Lamictal
in 2006, in line with 2006 turnover at CER. In sterling terms total XR in the middle of 2008.
pharmaceutical turnover decreased 4%, four percentage points less than
Sales of Requip, for Parkinson’s disease and Restless Legs Syndrome
CER, principally due to the strength of Sterling against the US dollar.
(RLS), grew 36% to £346 million. Requip XL, a new once-daily
formulation for Parkinson’s disease, has now been approved in 13
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
European countries and launched in seven markets. Further European
GSK’s turnover in 2007 was in line with 2006 as high-value growth approvals are anticipated during 2008. In the USA, GSK expects a
products were offset by lower Avandia sales and US generic response from the FDA on its application for Requip XL during the
competition to Coreg IR, Flonase, Wellbutrin XL and Zofran. The first half of 2008.
high-value growth products included Seretide/Advair, vaccines,
Anti-virals
Lamictal, Valtrex, Requip, Avodart and Boniva.
Total sales of HIV products were £1.4 billion, down 1%. Competition
Respiratory to older products, Combivir down 10% to £455 million and Epivir
GSK continues to be a global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals down 20% to £156 million, was largely offset by strong sales growth
with sales of its three key products, Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Flovent of new products Epzicom/Kivexa, which grew 39% to £324 million
and Serevent amounting to £4.4 billion, up 8%. Total sales of and Lexiva/Agenerase, up 13% to £141 million.
Seretide/Advair, for asthma and COPD, rose 10% to £3.5 billion. In
Sales of Valtrex, for herpes, rose 18% to £934 million, with US sales
the USA, sales grew 9% to £1.9 billion. In Europe sales grew 9% to
up 20% to £668 million driven by increased use of the product for
£1.2 billion and in International markets sales grew 23% to £372
prevention of disease transmission. Sales in Europe grew 9% to
million, enhanced by its launch in Japan in June.
£120 million and in International grew 13% to £146 million. Sales
Market share by value in the anti-asthma and COPD therapy class of Relenza, an antiviral treatment for flu, were £262 million (2006
was 29% in Europe and 31% in the USA. – £91 million), driven primarily by one-off government orders for
stockpiling against a possible flu pandemic.
Market share by value for Seretide/Advair
Metabolic
In 2007, sales of the Avandia product group, for type 2 diabetes, declined
40%
22% to £1.2 billion. In the USA sales fell 29% to £780 million, with
33
31
29 29 fourth quarter sales down 55% to £130 million following publication of
30%
an article in the New England Journal of Medicine. This article suggested
20% that there may be cardiovascular risk associated with Avandia. Despite
GSK’s efforts, doctors became reluctant to start new patients on Avandia
10% without further guidance from the FDA. Following clarification from the
FDA in October, there is now a new approved label for Avandia. Outside
the USA, sales in Europe grew 4% for the year to £227 million, and in
Europe USA
International markets, sales declined 7% to £212 million.
September 2006 September 2007
GSK recorded in turnover a £161 million share of co-promotion
GSK continues to see increased use of Seretide/Advair in the treatment
income for Boniva/Bonviva, a once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for
of COPD and is in ongoing discussions with the FDA to expand the
the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
indication for use in this patient group, including assessment of data
supporting a claim for reduction of exacerbations. Vaccines
Vaccine sales increased 20% to £2.0 billion, with good performances
in all regions: US sales rose 44% to £628 million; European sales grew
14% to £814 million and sales in International were up 8% to £551
million. Sales of hepatitis vaccines grew 14% to £529 million, driven by
US growth of 33%.Business review
Financial review 2007
continued
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 37
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
7002
weiver
laicnaniF
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2007
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2007 2006 Growth 2007 Growth 2007 Growth 2007 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 26 5,032 4,995 5 1 2,377 4 (3) 1,772 4 4 883 10 5
Seretide/Advair 3,499 3,313 10 6 1,891 9 1 1,236 9 9 372 23 20
Flixotide/Flovent 621 659 (1 ) (6 ) 284 3 (5 ) 161 (8 ) (7 ) 176 (2 ) (6 )
Serevent 269 291 (4 ) (8 ) 74 (7 ) (14 ) 134 (5 ) (4 ) 61 – (6 )
Flixonase/Flonase 199 311 (34) (36 ) 72 (60 ) (61 ) 51 – – 76 5 –
Central nervous system 17 3,348 3,642 (2) (8) 2,377 (1) (8) 513 (14) (14) 458 6 –
Seroxat/Paxil 553 620 (6 ) (11 ) 143 (12 ) (18 ) 122 (19 ) (18 ) 288 5 (3 )
Paxil IR 400 448 (6 ) (11 ) 7 (63 ) (63 ) 122 (19 ) (18 ) 271 4 (3 )
Paxil CR 153 172 (4 ) (11 ) 136 (6 ) (13 ) – – – 17 13 6
Wellbutrin 529 900 (37 ) (41 ) 512 (38 ) (42 ) 4 100 100 13 (13 ) (19 )
Wellbutrin IR, SR 75 102 (23 ) (26 ) 63 (26 ) (29 ) 2 – – 10 - (9 )
Wellbutrin XL 454 798 (39 ) (43 ) 449 (39 ) (43 ) 2 – – 3 (40 ) (40 )
Imigran/Imitrex 685 711 3 (4 ) 558 9 1 89 (25 ) (25 ) 38 (2 ) (10 )
Lamictal 1,097 996 18 10 892 26 17 145 (18 ) (17 ) 60 13 7
Requip 346 268 36 29 238 46 35 91 11 12 17 64 55
Anti-virals 16 3,028 2,827 13 7 1,494 19 10 870 1 2 664 13 7
HIV 1,442 1,515 (1) (5) 637 (2) (9) 612 (2) (1) 193 5 (1)
Combivir 455 528 (10 ) (14) 195 (11 ) (18 ) 192 (12 ) (12 ) 68 (1 ) (7 )
Trizivir 233 268 (9 ) (13 ) 120 (8 ) (15 ) 99 (13 ) (12 ) 14 7 –
Epivir 156 202 (20 ) (23 ) 53 (16 ) (23 ) 67 (26 ) (26 ) 36 (14 ) (16 )
Ziagen 109 117 (3 ) (7 ) 45 2 (6 ) 37 (10 ) (10 ) 27 (4 ) (4 )
Agenerase, Lexiva 141 131 13 8 78 14 5 53 10 10 10 22 11
Epzicom/Kivexa 324 241 39 34 142 23 14 149 54 54 33 74 74
Herpes 1,041 965 15 8 678 20 11 151 4 5 212 6 –
Valtrex 934 845 18 11 668 20 11 120 9 10 146 13 7
Zovirax 107 120 (8 ) (11 ) 10 – – 31 (11 ) (11 ) 66 (7 ) (12 )
Zeffix 168 162 8 4 13 8 – 24 4 4 131 9 4
Relenza 262 91 >100 >100 131 – – 76 21 23 55 >100 90
Metabolic 8 1,514 1,875 (15) (19) 895 (24) (30) 294 15 17 325 (2) (6)
Avandia 877 1,399 (34) (37) 592 (40) (45) 113 (10) (10) 172 (14) (17)
Avandamet 292 204 49 43 147 85 71 111 20 21 34 35 31
Avandaryl 50 42 26 19 41 10 3 3 – – 6 >100 >100
Bonviva/Boniva 161 95 79 69 115 49 39 45 >100 >100 1 – –
Vaccines 10 1,993 1,692 20 18 628 44 35 814 14 15 551 8 6
Hepatitis 529 479 14 10 199 33 24 235 3 4 95 8 4
Influenza 320 170 93 88 193 >100 >100 93 >100 >100 34 (19) (21)
Infanrix, Pediarix 543 511 9 6 196 23 14 275 (3 ) (2 ) 72 26 24
Boostrix 66 60 15 10 40 5 (2 ) 19 27 27 7 75 75
Rotarix 91 44 >100 >100 – – – 23 >100 >100 68 79 74
Cervarix 10 – – – – – – 9 – – 1 – –
Cardiovascular and 8
urogenital 1,554 1,636 – (5) 970 (2) (10) 412 3 4 172 7 2
Coreg 587 779 (18 ) (25 ) 581 (19 ) (25 ) – – – 6 17 –
Levitra 49 43 23 14 47 24 15 2 100 100 – – –
Avodart 285 216 38 32 175 44 34 86 23 25 24 56 50
Arixtra 100 58 81 72 55 88 72 39 70 70 6 100 100
Fraxiparine 184 209 (12 ) (12 ) – – – 160 (12 ) (11 ) 24 (17 ) (20 )
Vesicare 50 32 69 56 50 69 56 – – – – – –
Anti-bacterials 7 1,330 1,369 (1) (3) 195 (3) (10) 612 (3) (3) 523 3 –
Augmentin 530 570 (6) (7 ) 67 (23 ) (29 ) 250 (7 ) (7 ) 213 5 2
Oncology and emesis 2 477 1,069 (54) (55) 272 (65) (67) 139 (10) (9) 66 (14) (18)
Zofran 196 847 (77 ) (77 ) 78 (88) (89) 71 (34 ) (34 ) 47 (21 ) (23 )
Hycamtin 119 113 10 5 70 6 (3 ) 42 21 24 7 – –
Tykerb 51 – – – 36 – – 13 – – 2 – –
Other 6 957 973 1 (2 ) 65 (18 ) (22 ) 266 – 1 626 4 –
Zantac 168 232 (24 ) (28) 33 (51) (54) 42 (19) (19 ) 93 (8 ) (14 )
100 19,233 20,078 – (4) 9,273 (3) (10) 5,692 2 3 4,268 6 2
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record on pages 168 to 171.Business review
Financial review 2007
continued
Infanrix/Pediarix grew 9% to £543 million, again driven by US growth Sales and constant exchange rate growth by region
of 23%. Sales of the new two-dose vaccine, Rotarix, to prevent
rotavirus gastroenteritis, doubled to £91 million, with strong growth £m
in both Europe and International. Sales of Cervarix, GSK’s vaccine to
25,000
prevent cervical cancer, were £10 million. It has been approved in
over 50 countries and licensing applications have been submitted in
28 countries including Japan. GSK’s pre-pandemic influenza vaccine 20,000 4,178
6% CER 4,268 achieved sales of £146 million. Discussions regarding further orders growth
continue with a number of governments. 15,000 5,547
2% CER 5,692
Cardiovascular and urogenital growth
10,000
Sales of Coreg, for heart disease, fell 18% to £587 million, following the 10,353
3% CER 9,273
introduction of US generic competition to Coreg IR in September. Sales
decline
of Coreg CR, which was launched in March 2007, were £88 million. 5,000
Avodart, for benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlarged prostate), continued
to perform strongly with sales up 38% to £285 million. Positive data 0
2006 2007
from the CombAT study, (assessing use of Avodart and the alpha-
blocker, tamsulosin, as combination therapy), were recently published USA Europe International
in the Journal of Urology. GSK has filed for a co-prescription indication
in the USA, Europe and some International markets. A response is
Individual governments determine the pricing of medicines in most
expected from the FDA during the second quarter of 2008.
countries within Europe, which can result in wide price variations for
Anti-bacterials the same product. Parallel trade occurs when third parties exploit this
Anti-bacterial sales declined 1% to £1,330 million reflecting generic price differential by purchasing products in markets where low prices
competition in all regions. are enforced and selling them to governments and other purchasers in
those markets where higher prices have been agreed. This parallel trade is
Oncology and emesis
permitted under the single market rules in the European Union. GSK does
Tykerb achieved sales of £51 million in its first year, £36 million of which
not derive any benefit from the profit on resale at the higher price.
arose in the USA following its launch in March. Sales of Zofran declined
77% to £196 million, reflecting generic competition in the USA, Europe As a result, management believes that within the European region,
and International where sales declined 88%, 34% and 21% respectively. turnover by market, on an invoiced basis as presented above, does
not properly represent the consumption of the products within each
Other therapeutic areas
market. GSK employees based in each market are instrumental in
Sales of Zantac fell 24% to £168 million, with declines in all regions.
the promotion of the Group’s products within their market, thereby
Regional analysis creating a product sale and final consumption in that market.
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2007 on The following table gives the adjustments made in order to restate
an invoiced basis the turnover for markets within Europe on a turnover created basis.
The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced
Pharmaceutical turnover for Europe region in 2007 on a
by GSK’s local entity to its customers in the local market plus co-
turnover created basis
promotion income within each market.
2007 2006
Region/ % of 2007 2006 Growth* Region/ Invoiced Adjustment Created Invoiced Adjustment Created
major markets total £m £m CER% £% major markets £m £m £m £m £m £m
USA 48 9,273 10,353 (3) (10) Europe 5,692 – 5,692 5,547 – 5,547
France 991 (43) 948 967 (66) 901
Europe 30 5,692 5,547 2 3
UK 822 101 923 786 102 888
France 991 967 2 2
Italy 620 (14) 606 664 (25) 639
UK 822 786 5 5
Germany 602 87 689 592 72 664
Italy 620 664 (7) (7)
Spain 605 (12) 593 577 (14) 563
Germany 602 592 1 2
Other Europe 2,052 (119) 1,933 1,961 (69) 1,892
Spain 605 577 4 5
Other Europe 2,052 1,961 4 5
These adjustments are GSK’s estimates based on the most recent
International 22 4,268 4,178 6 2 data from independent external sources, valued in Sterling at relevant
Asia Pacific 1,441 1,377 6 5 exchange rates. Management believes that this turnover created
Japan 867 860 10 1 basis of reporting turnover by market provides a better reflection of
Middle East, Africa 774 744 7 4 the performance of the businesses in each market within Europe.
Latin America 709 714 4 (1) The total turnover for the Europe region is unaffected by this
Canada 477 483 2 (1) restatement.
100 19,233 20,078 0 (4)
Parallel trade occurs occasionally elsewhere in the world, but it is
not sufficiently material to affect significantly the turnover data by
* C ER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
at actual exchange rates. market presented on an invoiced basis.
38 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
7002
weiver
laicnaniF
20,078
19,233Business review
Financial review 2007
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2007 on a Europe
turnover created basis The discussion of individual market performance in the Europe region
Turnover by market within Europe has been adjusted for the effects of is on a turnover created basis.
parallel trade to show turnover on the basis of the country where the
Sales in Europe contributed 30% of pharmaceutical turnover
product is finally consumed, not where the product was sold by GSK.
and grew 2% to £5.7 billion, with strong sales of Seretide and
Region/ % of 2007 2006 Growth* vaccines offsetting the impact of generic competition to a number
major markets total £m £m CER% £% of products and continued price cuts resulting from government
USA 48 9,273 10,353 (3) (10) healthcare reforms.
Europe 30 5,692 5,547 2 3 All major markets recorded growth with the exception of Italy,
France 948 901 5 5 which was adversely impacted by pricing restrictions and generic
UK 923 888 4 4 competition. Major growth drivers were Seretide, GSK’s largest
Italy 606 639 (6) (5) selling product in Europe, with growth of 9%, and the vaccines
Germany 689 664 3 4 franchise, up 14%.
Spain 593 563 5 5
Generic competition adversely impacted sales of Seroxat, down
Other Europe 1,933 1,892 1 2
19%, Lamictal, down 18%, Zofran, down 34% and Imigran, down
International 22 4,268 4,178 6 2 25%. Sales of anti-bacterials decreased 3% due to a combination of
Asia Pacific 1,441 1,377 6 5 a weaker ‘flu season than in 2006 and generic competition.
Japan 867 860 10 1
Sales of Avandia/Avandamet grew 4%.
Middle East, Africa 774 744 7 4
Latin America 709 714 4 (1) International
Canada 477 483 2 (1) The International region reported year on year turnover growth of
6%. Faster growing markets included Japan, up 10%, China, up
100 19,233 20,078 – (4)
24% and Middle East/Africa, up 7%, while there was more modest
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at sales growth of 2% in Canada, 3% in Australia and 4% in Latin
actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record on pages America. The Canadian sales performance reflected lower sales of
168 to 171.
Avandia and generic competition for Zofran whilst the Australian
USA business was adversely impacted by government pricing and lower
Sales in the USA declined 3% to £9.3 billion, reflecting generic government orders for Relenza.
competition to Wellbutrin, Zofran, Flonase and Coreg IR which
The good performance in Japan was driven by the launch in the year
declined 38%, 88%, 60% and 31% respectively and a decline in
of Adoair and strong demand for Relenza. These were partially offset
the sales of Avandia products, partly offset by growth in sales of
by declines in the older products Zantac and Zovirax.
Advair, anti-virals, vaccines, Lamictal and Requip.
Across the remaining markets in International, the key products
Sales of the Avandia product group declined 29% following the
driving growth were Seretide, which grew 23% to record sales of
publication of an article in the New England Journal of Medicine in May,
£372 million, Valtrex which grew 13% to £146 million, the vaccines
which suggested there may be a cardiovascular risk associated with
franchise, which recorded growth of 8% and achieved sales of £551
Avandia. Following clarification from the FDA in October, there is now a
million, and the HIV products which grew 5% to £193 million.
new approved label for Avandia.
The Avandia range of products declined 7% to £212 million, with
Advair sales grew 9% to £1,891 million owing to the increased use
declines in Canada and Korea, partly offset by growth in Australia.
in the treatment of COPD.
Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew 19% to £1,494 million Consumer Healthcare sales
with herpes products up 20% and HIV products down 2%. Within HIV,
An analysis of Consumer Healthcare sales is set out in the
competition to older products, Combivir down 11% and Epivir down
following table:
16%, was partly offset by the growth of new products Epzicom/Kivexa up
2007 2006 Growth
23% and Lexiva up 14%. Valtrex, for herpes, grew 20% to £668 million,
£m £m CER% £%
driven by patients switching to suppression therapy. Sales of Relenza, an
OTC medicines 1,718 1,496 20 15
anti-viral treatment for flu, were £131 million, primarily driven by one-off
Analgesics 410 380 11 8
government orders for stockpiling against a possible flu pandemic.
Dermatological 175 165 10 6
Vaccines grew 44% to £628 million reflecting the good performance Gastro-intestinal 262 252 9 4
of the Hepatitis family of products, Pediarix, Fluarix/Flulaval and the Respiratory tract 244 172 45 42
launch of Boostrix. Smoking control 314 353 (6) (11)
Natural wellness support 125 132 (3) (5)
Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder,
Weight management 150 – – –
grew 26% to £892 million, benefiting from its new indication to
treat one of the most serious forms of epilepsy – primary generalised Oral care 1,049 993 8 6
tonic-clonic seizures.
Nutritional healthcare 716 658 9 9
Sales of Requip, for Parkinson’s disease and Restless Legs Syndrome 3,483 3,147 14 11
(RLS), grew 46% to £238 million following launch of the RLS
indication in 2006.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 39
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
7002
weiver
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial review 2007
continued
OTC medicines Research and development
Over-the-counter medicine sales grew 20% to £1.7 billion, with R&D expenditure declined 1% and included charges related to the new
Panadol up 14% to £262 million and alli sales of £150 million since Operational Excellence programme of £90 million (2006 – £nil). The
launch in the USA in June. Smoking control products declined 6% benefit arose from lower impairment charges and the winding-down of
to £314 million due to strong competition in the US market. Breathe previous restructuring activities. Excluding these items, R&D expenditure
Right and FiberChoice, added to the portfolio with the acquisition declined 2% on last year. Pharmaceutical R&D expenditure represented
of CNS in December 2006, achieved combined sales of £81 million. 16.7% (2006 – 16.7%) of pharmaceutical turnover.
Oral care Other operating income
Oral care sales grew 8% to over £1 billion. Sales of Aquafresh were Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment
up 12% to £308 million, helped by the success of the new Aquafresh disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value
White Trays. Sensodyne also grew strongly, up 16% for the year to adjustments to financial instruments. Other operating income was
£293 million, driven by a successful launch of Sensodyne ProNamel. £475 million in 2007 (2006 – £307 million). The increase is primarily
due to higher royalty income (£216 million in 2007 compared with
Nutritional healthcare
£94 million in 2006), favourable fair value movements on financial
Nutritional healthcare product sales grew 9% to £716 million.
instruments (£41 million in 2007 compared with £29 million in
Lucozade grew 16% to £347 million, and Horlicks grew 12% to
2006), and the Roche litigation settlement relating to carvedilol,
£174 million. Ribena sales were down 7% to £156 million.
partially offset by lower asset disposal profits.
Operating profit – total results Operating profit
Overall, the operating profit margin decreased 0.2 percentage points
Total results include restructuring costs related to the new Operational
as operating profit decreased 3% in sterling terms to £7,593 million.
Excellence programme, which commenced in October 2007.
Operating profit increased 3% at constant exchange rates and the
2007 2006 Growth CER margin increased 0.5 percentage points, reflecting flat SG&A
£m % £m % CER% £% expenditure and higher other operating income, partially offset by
Turnover 22,716 100.0 23,225 100.0 2 (2) an increase in cost of sales.
Cost of sales (5,317) (23.4) (5,010) (21.6) 8 6 In the year, gains from asset disposals were £109 million (£169 million
Selling, general in 2006), costs for legal matters were £255 million (£333 million in
and administration (6,954) (30.6) (7,257) (31.2) – (4) 2006), fair value movements on financial instruments resulted in
Research and an income of £41 million (income of £29 million in 2006), charges
development (3,327) (14.7) (3,457) (14.9) (1) (4) related to old restructuring activity were £92 million (£205 million
Other operating in 2006) and charges related to the new Operational Excellence
income 475 2.1 307 1.3 programme were £338 million (2006 – £nil). The total operating
profit impact of these items was a £535 million charge in 2007 (£340
Operating profit 7,593 33.4 7,808 33.6 3 (3)
million charge in 2006).
Cost of sales
Profit before taxation – total results
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 1.8 percentage
points. At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as a percentage Net finance costs
of turnover increased by 1.3 percentage points, reflecting charges
2007 2006
related to the new Operational Excellence programme of £111 Finance income £m £m
million (2006 – £nil) and unfavourable product and regional mixes
Interest and other finance income 255 285
compared with 2006.
Fair value adjustments and hedges 7 2
Selling, general and administration
262 287
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs as a percentage of
turnover reduced 0.6 percentage points. At constant exchange rates, Finance costs
the decrease was 0.7 percentage points, reflecting flat expenditure
Interest costs (432) (314)
compared with the prior year on a turnover growth of 2%. SG&A
Unwinding of discount on liabilities (27) (36)
costs included charges related to the new Operational Excellence
Fair value adjustments and hedges 6 (2)
programme of £137 million (2006 – £nil). Advertising and promotion
increased by 2%, selling and distribution increased by 2%, and (453) (352)
general and administration expenditure declined 5%.
Finance costs increased owing to increased levels of debt to finance
the share buy-back programme.
40 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
7002
weiver
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial review 2007
continued
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures Selling, general and administration
The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs as a percentage of
holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. turnover reduced 1.2 percentage points and at constant exchange
rates, the decrease was 1.3 percentage points, reflecting a 2% decline
Profit before taxation – total results
in expenditure compared with prior year on a turnover growth of
Taking account of net finance costs and the contribution from
2%. SG&A costs were down 2% due to lower selling and general
associates, total profit before taxation was £7,452 million compared
and administration expenditure partly offset by higher advertising and
with £7,799 million in 2006, an increase of 2% at constant exchange
promotion. Advertising and promotion increased 2% and accounted for
rates, but a 4% sterling decline.
less than a 1% increase in total SG&A. Selling and distribution declined
1% and general and administration expenditure declined 7%. Collectively
Operational Excellence
these items accounted for a 2% decline in total SG&A, of which one
In October 2007, GSK announced a significant new £1.5 billion percentage point was due to lower charges related to legal matters.
Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and
Research and development
productivity of its operations.
R&D expenditure decreased 3% partly as a result of lower impairment
This new programme is expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings charges and the winding-down of previous restructuring activities.
of £700 million by 2010. GSK expects to realise the majority of Excluding these items, R&D expenditure was flat. Pharmaceutical R&D
annual savings within the first two years of the programme, with expenditure represented 16.2% (2006 – 16.7%) of pharmaceutical
approximately £350 million expected by 2008 and £550 million by turnover.
2009. These savings will partly mitigate the expected impact to 2008
Other operating income
earnings from generic competition and lower Avandia sales and the
Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment
associated adverse impact on GSK’s gross margin. One-off charges of
disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value
£338 million before tax relating to the programme were recorded in
adjustments to financial instruments. Other operating income was
Q4 2007. There were no significant acquisition-related restructuring
£475 million in 2007 (2006 – £307 million). The increase is primarily
costs incurred in 2006 or 2007.
due to higher royalty income (£216 million in 2007 compared with
Because of the significance of this new programme, a columnar £94 million in 2006), favourable fair value movements on financial
presentation has been adopted in the income statement in order to instruments (£41 million in 2007 compared with £29 million in
illustrate GSK’s underlying performance in 2007. The analysis below of 2006), and the Roche litigation settlement relating to carvedilol,
operating profit and the subsequent discussion excludes restructuring partially offset by lower asset disposal profits.
costs related to the new Operational Excellence programme, which
Operating profit
commenced in October 2007. Management believes that exclusion of
Overall, the operating profit margin increased 1.3 percentage points
these items provides a more useful reflection of the way in which the
as operating profit increased 2% in sterling terms to £7,931 million.
business is managed, and accordingly this supplemental information
Operating profit increased 8% at constant exchange rates and the
is provided in addition to that contained in the consolidated income
margin increased 2 percentage points, reflecting declines in SG&A
statement on page 90 prepared in accordance with IFRS.
and R&D expenditure on turnover growth of 2%, and higher other
operating income.
Operating profit – business performance
In the year, gains from asset disposals were £109 million (2006 –
2007 2006 Growth
£169 million), costs for legal matters were £255 million (2006 – £333
£m % £m % CER% £%
million), fair value movements on financial instruments resulted in an
Turnover 22,716 100.0 23,225 100.0 2 (2)
income of £41 million (2006 – £29 million) and charges related to
Cost of sales (5,206) (22.9) (5,010) (21.6) 6 4 old restructuring activity were £92 million (2006 – £205 million). The
Selling, general operating profit impact of these items was a £197 million charge in
and administration (6,817) (30.0) (7,257) (31.2) (2) (6) 2007 (2006 – £340 million).
Research and
development (3,237) (14.3) (3,457) (14.9) (3) (6) Profit before taxation – business performance
Other operating
Net finance costs
income 475 2.1 307 1.3
2007 2006
Operating profit 7,931 34.9 7,808 33.6 8 2 Finance income £m £m
Interest and other income 255 285
Cost of sales
Fair value adjustments and hedges 7 2
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 1.3 percentage
points. At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as a percentage of 262 287
turnover increased by 0.8 percentage points, reflecting unfavourable
Finance costs
product and regional mix.
Interest costs (432) (314)
Unwinding of discount on liabilities (27) (36)
Fair value adjustments and hedges 6 (2)
(453) (352)
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 41
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
7002
weiver
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial review 2007
continued
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing
The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing and other
holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. taxation issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of
external professional advice, continues to believe that it has made
Profit before taxation – business performance
adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open
Taking account of net finance costs and the contribution from
assessments. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the
associates, business performance profit before taxation was £7,790
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
million compared with £7,799 million in 2006, an increase of 6%
proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
CER, but flat in sterling terms.
Profit for the year
Taxation
2007 2006 Growth
2007 2006 £m £m CER% £%
£m £m
Total profit after taxation
UK corporation tax 452 400
for the year 5,310 5,498 3 (3)
Overseas taxation 1,962 2,310
Total profit attributable to
Current taxation 2,414 2,710 shareholders 5,214 5,389 3 (3)
Deferred taxation (272) (409) Basic earnings per share (pence) 94.4p 95.5p 5 (1)
2,142 2,301 Basic earnings per ADS (US$) $3.77 $3.53
The charge for taxation on total profit amounting to £2,142 million, Business performance profit after
represents an effective tax rate of 28.7% (2006 – 29.5%). The charge taxation for the year 5,571 5,498 8 1
for taxation on business performance profit, amounting to £2,219 Business performance profit
million, represents an effective tax rate of 28.5% (2006 – 29.5%). The attributable to shareholders 5,475 5,389 8 2
Group balance sheet at 31st December 2007 included a tax payable Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 99.1p 95.5p 10 4
liability of £826 million and a tax recoverable asset of £58 million. Adjusted earnings per ADS (US$) $3.96 $3.53
Weighted average number
The Group’s main open tax issues are in the UK, USA, Canada
of shares (millions) 5,524 5,643
and Japan.
Diluted total earnings per share (pence) 93.7p 94.5p
GSK continues to be in dispute with HM Revenue & Customs
Diluted total earnings per ADS (US$) $3.75 $3.50
(‘HMRC’) primarily in respect of transfer pricing and Controlled
Weighted average number
Foreign Companies (‘CFC’) matters for the years 1994 to date. HMRC
of shares (millions) 5,567 5,700
have not yet formalised claims in respect of these matters and GSK is
seeking to resolve them in discussions with HMRC. There continues,
Total results including restructuring costs related to the new
however, to be a wide difference between the Group and HMRC
Operational Excellence programme produced a basic EPS of 94.4p
positions, which may ultimately have to be settled by litigation.
compared with 95.5p in 2006. This was a 5% increase in CER terms
Following its audit of the period 2001 to 2003, the US Internal Revenue compared with 2006, but a 1% decline in sterling terms.
Service (‘IRS’) has in Notices of Proposed Adjustment challenged
Business performance profit for the year was £5,571 million, an increase
deductions arising from intercompany financing arrangements for
of 8% (1% in sterling terms). Profit attributable to minority interests
those years, with which GSK disagrees and which it will vigorously
was £96 million and profit attributable to shareholders was £5,475
contest. GSK estimates that the IRS claim for tax and interest at 31st
million, an increase of 8% (2% in sterling terms). The interest cost of
December 2007, net of federal tax relief for these years, is $680
the share buy-back programme adversely impacts the Group’s profits
million. GSK believes, supported by external professional advice,
but benefits EPS. Business performance EPS increased 10%, reflecting
that this claim has no merit and that no adjustment is warranted.
higher profits and also the reduction in the weighted average number
If, contrary to GSK’s view, the IRS prevailed in its argument before a
of shares resulting from the Group’s share buy-back programme.
court, GSK would expect to have an additional liability for the four
At actual rates of exchange, earnings per share increased 4%. The
year unaudited period 2004-2007 proportionate to its liability for the
unfavourable currency impact on EPS of six percentage points reflected
three year audited period 2001-2003. In the event that GSK is not
a strengthening of Sterling against the US dollar and compared with a
able to resolve this issue with the IRS, a court decision would not be
four percentage point unfavourable currency impact on turnover.
expected before 2010.
Dividend
Lower courts in Japan have upheld claims by the tax authorities for
The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 16 pence per share
Yen 39 billion (£177 million) relating to Japanese CFC legislation. GSK
resulting in a dividend for the year of 53 pence, a five pence increase
has paid and fully provided for the full tax but is pursuing a claim for
over the dividend of 48 pence per share for 2006. The equivalent
refund to the Japanese Supreme Court. In Canada a court hearing in
fourth interim dividend receivable by ADR holders is 62.7264 cents
respect of transfer pricing in the early 1990s was completed in July
per ADS based on an exchange rate of £1/$1.9602. The ex-dividend
2006. GSK is still awaiting the court’s judgement.
date will be 13th February 2008, with a record date of 15th February
2008 and a payment date of 10th April 2008.
42 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
7002
weiver
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial review 2007
continued
Critical accounting policies • W here there is historical experience of customer returns, GSK
records an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying historical
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced, together
with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also with
with market related information such as stock levels at wholesalers,
IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies approved
anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial statements,
‘Accounting policies’. Management is required to make estimates A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue pharmaceuticals business is as follows:
and expenses reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts
2007 2006 2005 and results could differ from those estimates. The critical accounting
£m % £m % £m %
policies adopted relate to the following areas:
Gross turnover 11,826 100 13,131 100 11,875 100
• T urnover
Chargebacks 917 8 846 6 786 7
• T axation
Managed care, GPO
• L egal and other disputes
rebates and Medicare
• I mpairment of property, plant & equipment Part D 727 6 912 7 686 6
• I ntangible assets US government and
• P ensions and other post-employment benefits state programmes 481 4 507 4 775 6
Cash discounts 208 2 248 2 227 2
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas
Customer returns 131 1 140 1 155 1
is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting
Prior year adjustments (73) – (69) – (34) –
judgements and estimates’.
Other items 162 1 194 1 174 1
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, the Group’s largest
Total deductions 2,553 22 2,778 21 2,769 23
business is US pharmaceuticals, and the US market has the most
Net turnover 9,273 78 10,353 79 9,106 77
complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
The following briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in Chargebacks have increased in 2007 as a result of significant sales
existence in the Group’s US pharmaceuticals business. of product into US government stockpiles. Customer rebates have
fallen compared with 2006 as a result of products with traditionally
• GSK has arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby the
higher rebate percentages becoming subject to generic competition
customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at reduced prices. A
and being replaced with sales of newer products with lower rebate
chargeback represents the difference between the invoice price to the
percentages.
wholesaler and the indirect customer’s contractual discounted price.
Accruals for estimating chargebacks are calculated based on the terms The total accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in
of each agreement, historical experience and product growth rates. the US pharmaceuticals business were as follows:
• Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group
At 31st At 31st
purchasing organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect December December
2007 2006
customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve
£m £m
certain performance targets relating to value of product purchased,
Chargebacks 38 50
formulary status or pre-determined market shares relative to
Managed care, GPO and
competitors. Rebates given under Medicare, Part D are included in
Medicare, Part D rebates 340 435
this category. The Medicare, Part D programme was introduced in
US government and state programmes 240 283
2006 and replaced the Government Medicaid subsidies for some
Cash discounts 21 24
individuals with subsidised coverage provided through private
Customer returns 194 184
prescription plans. The accrual for these rebates is estimated based
on the specific terms in each agreement, historical experience and Other 37 69
product growth rates. Total 870 1,045
• The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients. In wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses gross
1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data sources
reduce state and federal expenditure on prescription drugs. GSK and information received from key wholesalers. The aim of this is to
participates by providing rebates to states. Accruals for Medicaid maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to year based
rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of individual on the pattern of consumption. On this basis, US pharmaceutical
state agreements using a combination of historical experience, inventory levels at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at
product and population growth, anticipated price increases and 31st December 2007 were estimated to amount to approximately
the impact of contracting strategies. one month of turnover. This calculation uses third party information,
the accuracy of which cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be
• Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
sufficiently reliable for this purpose.
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 43
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
7002
weiver
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial position and resources
Financial position Property, plant and equipment
GSK’s business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
2007 2006 regulated by governmental authorities. The Group allocates
£m £m
significant financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of its
Assets
property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of
Non-current assets
production and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards. A
Property, plant and equipment 7,821 6,930 number of its processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Goodwill 1,370 758
The total cost of the Group’s property, plant and equipment at 31st
Other intangible assets 4,456 3,293
December 2007 was £15,087 million, with a net book value of £7,821
Investments in associates and joint ventures 329 295
million. Of this, land and buildings represented £2,978 million, plant
Other investments 517 441
and equipment £2,968 million and assets in construction £1,875
Deferred tax assets 2,196 2,123
million. In 2007, GSK invested £1,583 million in new and renewal
Derivative financial instruments 1 113
property, plant and equipment. This is mainly related to a large
Other non-current assets 687 608
number of projects for the renewal, improvement and expansion of
Total non-current assets 17,377 14,561 facilities at various worldwide sites. Property is mainly held freehold.
New investment is financed from Group liquid resources. At 31st
Current assets
December 2007, GSK had capital contractual commitments for future
Inventories 3,062 2,437
expenditure of £597 million and 2008 operating lease commitments
Current tax recoverable 58 186
of £360 million. GSK believes that its facilities are adequate for its
Trade and other receivables 5,495 5,237
current needs.
Derivative financial instruments 475 80
Liquid investments 1,153 1,035 The Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills
Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 2,005 to manage environmental risks from these activities. Environmental
Assets held for sale 4 12 issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
discontinued, are reported under ‘Responsibility for environment,
Total current assets 13,626 10,992
health and safety’ (page 29) and in Note 44 to the financial
Total assets 31,003 25,553 statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Liabilities Goodwill
Current liabilities Goodwill has increased during the year from £758 million at 31st
Short-term borrowings (3,504) (718) December 2006 to £1,370 million. The increase reflects the goodwill
Trade and other payables (4,861) (4,831) arising on the acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals of £350
million and Domantis of £181 million as well as a strengthening of
Derivative financial instruments (262) (40)
overseas currencies on the translation of existing foreign currency
Current tax payable (826) (621)
goodwill balances.
Short-term provisions (892) (1,055)
Other intangible assets
Total current liabilities (10,345) (7,265)
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from
Non-current liabilities third parties and computer software. The net book value of other
Long-term borrowings (7,067) (4,772) intangible assets as at 31st December 2007 was £4,456 million
Deferred tax provision (887) (595) (2006 – £3,293 million). The increase in 2007 reflects additions
Pensions and other post- of £1,298 million and currency movements partly offset by the
employment benefits (1,383) (2,339) amortisation and impairment of existing intangibles. The largest
Other provisions (1,035) (528) element of the additions is £613 million relating to the acquisition
Derivative financial instruments (8) (60) of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc., which added a range of speciality
Other non-current liabilities (368) (346) medicines combating heart disease to the GSK portfolio, including
the US marketing rights to Lovaza.
Total non-current liabilities (10,748) (8,640)
Investments
Total liabilities (21,093) (15,905)
GSK held investments, including associates and joint ventures, with
Net assets 9,910 9,648
a carrying value at 31st December 2007 of £846 million (2006 –
£736 million). The market value at 31st December 2007 was £1,517
Equity
million (2006 – £1,461 million). The largest of these investments is
Share capital 1,503 1,498
in an associate, Quest Diagnostics Inc., which had a book value at
Share premium account 1,266 858
31st December 2007 of £299 million (2006 – £262 million). The
Retained earnings 6,475 6,965
investments include equity stakes in companies where the Group
Other reserves 359 65
has research collaborations, which provide access to biotechnology
Shareholders’ equity 9,603 9,386 developments of potential interest or interests in companies that
arise from business divestments.
Minority interests 307 262
Total equity 9,910 9,648
44 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
secruoser
dna
noitisop
laicnaniFBusiness review
Derivative financial instruments: assets Total equity
GSK held both non-current and current derivative financial A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
instruments held at fair value of £476 million (2006 – £193 million).
2007 2006
The increase primarily reflects fluctuations in far forward valuations
£m £m
on foreign exchange contracts hedging inter-company loans and
Total equity at beginning of year 9,648 7,570
deposits. Exchange movements are largely due to changes in Euro,
Total recognised income and expense
US dollar and Yen market rates.
for the year 6,134 5,395
Trade and other receivables Dividends to shareholders (2,793) (2,598)
Trade and other receivables of £5,495 million have increased from Ordinary shares issued 417 316
2006 reflecting the impact of strengthing overseas currencies on the Ordinary shares purchased and held as
translation of foreign currency receivables partly offset by lower VAT
Treasury shares (3,537) (1,348)
recoverables.
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled (213) –
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities Consideration received for shares transferred
GSK held both non-current and current derivative financial by ESOP Trusts 116 151
instruments held at fair value of £270 million (2006 – £100 million) Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (26) –
relating primarily to hedging exchange on translation of currency Share-based incentive plans 237 226
assets on consolidation. The increase again reflects the impact from Tax on share-based incentive plans 4 21
Euro, US dollar and Yen currency fluctuations. Changes in minority interest shareholdings – 2
Minority interests (77) (87)
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables amounting to £4,861 million have Total equity at end of year 9,910 9,648
marginally increased from 2006 with the impact of strengthening
overseas currencies on the translation of foreign currency payables At 31st December 2007, total equity had increased from £9,648
partly offset by a decrease in customer return and rebate accruals. million at 31st December 2006 to £9,910 million. The increase arises
principally from retained earnings and actuarial gains on defined
Provisions
benefit pension plans in the year, partially offset by further purchases
The Group carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
of Treasury shares.
non-current provisions of £2,814 million at 31st December 2007
(2006 – £2,178 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities, of
Share purchases
which £1,152 million related to legal and other disputes.
In 2007, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts acquired
Provision has been made for legal and other disputes, indemnified £26 million of shares in GSK plc (2006 – £nil). Shares are held by the
disposal liabilities and the costs of restructuring programmes to Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under the
the extent that at the balance sheet date an actual or constructive Group share option and award schemes. A proportion of the shares
obligation existed and could be reasonably estimated. held by the Trusts are in respect of awards where the rules of the
scheme require GSK to satisfy exercises through market purchases
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
rather than the issue of new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are
The Group accounts for pension and other post-employment
matched to options and awards granted.
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The net deficits before
allowing for deferred taxation were £411 million (2006 – £1,276 At 31st December 2007, the ESOP Trusts held 134.5 million GSK
million) on pension arrangements and £972 million (2006 – £1,063 shares against the future exercise of share options and share awards.
million) on unfunded post-employment liabilities. The pension The carrying value of £1,617 million has been deducted from other
liabilities decreased following improvements in asset values, further reserves. The market value of these shares was £1,721 million.
special funding contributions to the UK pension funds of £285
GSK repurchased £3,537 million of shares in 2007, to be held as
million (2006 – £346 million to the UK and US pension schemes) and
Treasury shares and purchased a further £213 million for cancellation.
a strengthening of long-term interest rates, including an increase in
In July 2007, GSK announced an increased buy-back programme
the rate used to discount UK pension liabilities from 5.0% to 5.75%.
to £12 billion, representing a £7.7 billion increase compared with
These benefits were partly offset by an improvement in mortality
continuation of the existing programme. This new programme is
rates and a higher inflation assumption in the UK.
expected to be completed over a two year period including £6 billion
Net debt in 2008. The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the
2007 2006 extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares
£m £m rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is
Cash, cash equivalents and dependent on market conditions and other factors. At 31st December
liquid investments 4,532 3,040 2007, GSK held 504.2 million shares as Treasury shares, at a cost of
Borrowings – repayable within one year (3,504) (718) £6,683 million, which has been deducted from retained earnings.
Borrowings – repayable after one year (7,067) (4,772)
28.9 million shares have been purchased in the period 1st January
Net debt (6,039) (2,450) 2008 to 22nd February 2008 at a cost of £323 million. All purchases
were made through the publicly announced buy-back programme.
Net debt increased by £3,589 million primarily due to the higher
share repurchases and acquisition of businesses partly offset by
increased cash inflows from operating activities.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 45
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
secruoser
dna
noitisop
laicnaniF
Financial position and resources
continuedBusiness review
Financial position and resources
continued
Commitments and contingent liabilities In 2006, GSK formalised an agreement with the trustees of the UK
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 39 to the financial pension schemes to make additional contributions of up to £325
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and million per year, in addition to the normal contributions, over a four-
obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in Note year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the
31 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and Note 32 to then pension deficits on an IAS 19 basis by that point. The table
the financial statements, ‘Net debt’. opposite shows this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing
annual funding requirement of approximately £200 million. GSK
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are
has also committed to eliminate any future deficits that may arise
set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other
over a rolling five-year period. No other commitments have been post-employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring
made past 31st December 2009. For further information on pension
programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set out
obligations, see Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and
in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
other post-employment benefits’.
Contractual obligations and commitments
Contingent liabilities
The following table sets out the Group’s contractual obligations and
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
commitments at 31st December 2007 as they fall due for payment.
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are
£m £m £m £m £m expected to expire.
Loans 10,448 3,474 370 2,195 4,409
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
Interest on loans 5,170 393 646 634 3,497 £m £m £m £m £m
Finance lease obligations 123 40 61 13 9
Guarantees 166 37 10 – 119
Finance lease charges 14 5 5 3 1
Other contingent liabilities 40 13 9 4 14
Operating lease
commitments 360 101 134 74 51 Total 206 50 19 4 133
Intangible assets 5,730 618 745 805 3,562
Property, plant & equipment 597 459 137 1 – In the normal course of business GSK has provided various
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in which
Investments 65 38 27 – –
legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A provision is made
Purchase commitments 159 72 54 24 9
where a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of
Pensions 650 325 325 – –
the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the financial statements,
Other commitments 32 20 7 – 5
‘Other provisions’.
Total 23,348 5,545 2,511 3,74911,543
It is the Group’s policy to provide for the settlement costs of asserted
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on loans claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable estimate
are disclosed after taking into account the effect of derivatives. may be made. Prior to this point no liability is recorded. Legal and
environmental costs are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ on pages 50 to 53
The Group has entered into a number of research collaborations
and Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
to develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
The terms of these arrangements can include up-front fees, equity GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing
investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of methodology and, on the basis of external professional advice,
research. In addition the Group will often agree to make further continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the
payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved. As some of these liabilities likely to arise from open taxation assessments. The ultimate
agreements relate to compounds in the early stages of development, liability for such matters may vary significantly from amounts provided
milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and
compounds move successfully through the development process. negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. This is discussed further
Generally the closer the product is to marketing approval the greater in Note 14 to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’.
the possibility of success. The payments shown above within intangible
assets represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones are
achieved.
A number of new commitments were made in 2007 under licensing
and other agreements, including arrangements with Anacor
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Santaris
Pharma A/S and Targacept, Inc.
46 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
secruoser
dna
noitisop
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial position and resources
continued
Cash flow Free cash flow was £3,857 million, an increase of 47% over 2006,
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out principally reflecting the impact of the US tax settlement in 2006
below partly offset by higher levels of capital expenditure. Free cash flow
is the amount of cash generated by the business after meeting
2007 2006
its obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to minority
£m £m
interests, and after capital expenditure on non-current tangible
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,161 4,357
and intangible assets.
Net cash outflow from investing activities (3,009) (1,521)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,741) (4,792) Free cash flow is used by GSK’s management for planning and
reporting purposes and in discussions with and presentations to
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,411 (1,956)
investment analysts and rating agencies. GSK’s free cash flow
Exchange adjustments 48 (254) measure is not defined in IFRS. This measure may not be directly
comparable with similarly described measures used by other
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 1,762 3,972
companies. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,221 1,762
activities, which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash
flow is shown below.
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year
comprise:
Reconciliation of free cash flow
Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 2,005
2007 2006
Overdrafts (158) (243)
£m £m
3,221 1,762 Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,161 4,357
Purchase of non-current tangible assets (1,516) (1,366)
The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid was
Purchase of non-current intangible assets (627) (224)
£6,161 million, an increase of £1,804 million over 2006, arising
mainly because a gross taxation payment of $3.3 billion (£1.8 billion) Disposal of non-current tangible fixed assets 35 43
under the US transfer pricing dispute settlement was made in 2006 Interest paid (378) (414)
(see Note 14 to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’). Interest received 247 299
Dividends received from joint ventures and
The net cash outflow from investing activities was £3,009 million,
associated undertaking 12 15
an increase of £1,488 million which reflected increased capital
Dividends paid to minority interests (77) (87)
expenditure and the purchase of businesses, including Reliant
Pharmaceuticals for £794 million and Domantis for £218 million, Free cash flow 3,857 2,623
net of cash acquired.
Cash returned to shareholders Movements in net debt
2007 2006
£m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (2,450) (1,237)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and
bank overdrafts 1,411 (1,956)
Cash outflow from liquid investments 39 55
Net increase in long-term loans (3,276) –
Net (increase in)/repayment of short-term loans (1,632) 739
Exchange and other movements (131) (51)
Net debt at end of year (6,039) (2,450)
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 47
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
secruoser
dna
noitisop
laicnaniF
£m
7,000
6,544
6,000 3,751
5,000
3,946
4,000
1,348
3,000
2,793
2,598
2,000
1,348
1,000 1,000
2006 2007
Dividends BuybacksBusiness review
Financial position and resources
continued
Investment appraisal A Treasury Management Group (TMG) chaired by the Group’s
GSK has a formal process for assessing potential investment proposals Chief Financial Officer, meets on a monthly basis to review treasury
in order to ensure decisions are aligned with the Group’s overall activities. Its members receive management information relating to
strategy. This process includes an analysis of the impact of the project treasury activities. The Corporate Executive Team (CET) also review a
on earnings, its return on invested capital and an assessment of the monthly finance report which focuses on operational finance issues.
return based on discounted cash flows. The discount rate used to The Group’s internal auditors review the treasury internal control
perform financial analysis is decided internally, to allow determination environment regularly.
of the extent to which investments cover the Group’s cost of capital.
Capital management
For specific investments the discount rate may be adjusted to take into GSK operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies
account country or other risk weightings.
established in the markets in which the Group trades. With significant
Capital expenditure and financial investment levels of patent protection the Group’s products compete largely on
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted to product efficacy rather than on price. Selling margins are sufficient to
£2,143 million (2006 – £1,590 million). Disposals realised £44 million cover normal operating costs and the Group’s operating subsidiaries
(2006 – £218 million). Cash payments to acquire equity investments are generally cash generative.
of £186 million (2006 – £57 million) were made in the year and sales
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in research and
of equity investments realised £45 million (2006 – £32 million).
development of new products as well as to make the routine
Future cash flow outflows of capital expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be sufficient maturing debt. In July 2007, GSK announced an increased share buy-
to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels back programme of £12 billion over the period to July 2009 which
of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing will result in substantially increased borrowings.
agreements and to meet other routine outflows including tax and
The Group’s policy is to borrow centrally, using a variety of capital
dividends, subject to the risk factors discussed on pages 50 to 53.
market issues and borrowing facilities, to meet anticipated
GSK may from time to time have additional demands for finance,
funding requirements.
such as for acquisitions. It has access to other sources of liquidity
from short and long-term capital markets and banks and other These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations,
financial institutions, in addition to the cash flow from operations, for are on-lent, contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries or used to
such needs. fund the Group’s £12 billion share buy-back programme, due to
complete by July 2009.
Payment policies
Liquidity
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing their The Group manages its net borrowing requirements through a
working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier payments portfolio of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together
reflect local commercial practice. with short-term finance under a US$10 billion commercial paper
programme. At 31st December 2007, the Group also had $5 billion
In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have
committed undrawn bank facilities.
policies to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular,
the UK companies seek: The Group has a European Medium Term Note programme of £10
• t o settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms billion, of which £7.2 billion was in issue as at 31st December 2007,
of the transaction and a US Shelf Registration of $5 billion; at 31st December 2007,
$2 billion (£1 billion) was in issue. The TMG monitors the cashflow
• to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms
forecast of GSK on a monthly basis.
of payment
• t o abide by the terms of payment. The Group’s long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2008
and 2042. On 18th February 2008 GSK’s long-term Standard and
The policy includes arrangements for accelerated payment of Poor’s debt rating was revised from AA with negative outlook to A+
small suppliers. stable. At this time, Standard and Poor’s also revised GSK’s short-
Payment performance term rating for paper issued under the Group’s commercial paper
At 31st December 2007, the average number of days’ purchases programme from A-1+ to A-1. Moody’s Investors’ Services rate GSK
represented by trade and fixed asset creditors of the parent company as A1 with negative outlook for long-term debt and P-1 for short-
was nil (2006 – nil) and in respect of the company and its UK term debt. There has been no change to GSK’s rating from Moody’s
subsidiaries in aggregate was 24 days (2006 – 24 days). since 25th July 2007.
In the light of likely increased commercial paper issuance resulting
Treasury policies
from the increased share buy-back programme, GSK has increased its
GlaxoSmithKline plc reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of committed bank facilities from $900 million to $5 billion. In addition,
Sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury in GSK is to manage the Group maintains substantial cash and liquid investments which
and monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirements amounted to £4.5 billion at 31st December 2007.
and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives. Treasury
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the
Board of Directors, most recently on 5th October 2007.
48 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
secruoser
dna
noitisop
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial position and resources
continued
Financial assets and liabilities
An analysis of net debt is given in Note 32 to the financial statements,
‘Net debt’. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities at carrying
value and fair value is given in Note 41 to the financial statements,
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
The Group continues to benefit from strong positive cash flow
from operating activities. Group net debt would have decreased
significantly in the year to 31st December 2007, but for the Group’s
purchase of its own shares in the market of £3.8 billion and
acquisitions of approximately £1 billion.
The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2007 are
representative of the treasury policies and strategies of GSK applied
since July 2007. At that time, GSK announced a changed financial
strategy, involving an increased share buy-back programme of £12
billion, which will result in substantially increased borrowings.
From July 2007 onwards, GSK tightened its criteria for holding cash
equivalents and liquid investments in response to the credit crisis.
GSK has suffered no loss of principal as a result of this crisis.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 49
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
secruoser
dna
noitisop
laicnaniF
Treasury operations
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net cost/
income of financial operations to the benefit of Group earnings.
Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre. GSK uses a
variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to finance its
operations and to manage market risks from those operations.
Derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts,
interest rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and
liquid assets into currencies required for Group purposes and to
manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign exchange
rate and interest rates.
GSK does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
speculative purposes and the Group’s treasury policies specifically
prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial instruments are
undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business
activities, not for speculation.
Foreign exchange management
Foreign currency transaction exposure arising on normal trade flows,
in respect of both external and intra-Group trade, is not hedged.
The exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to transaction risk
is minimised by matching local currency income with local currency
costs. For this purpose, intra-Group trading transactions are matched
centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed to reduce
risk. Exceptionally foreign currency cash flows are hedged selectively
under the management of Corporate Treasury.
The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses
or borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses
forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the
originating currency.
The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of its
principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in
US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings are swapped into
other currencies as required for Group purposes.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
that match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a
hedge against the relevant assets. The ratio of borrowings to assets
is reviewed by currency on a month-by-month basis by the TMG.
Interest rate risk management
GSK’s policy on interest rate risk management requires the minimum
amount of net borrowings at fixed rates to increase with the ratio of
forecast interest payable to trading profit. The fixed to floating ratio
is reviewed monthly by the TMG.
The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to
redenominate external borrowings into the interest rate coupon
required for Group purposes. The duration of these swaps matches
the duration of the principal instruments. Interest rate derivative
instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash flow hedges of
the relevant assets or liabilities.Business review
Outlook and risk factors
Outlook New product candidates may appear promising in development
but, after significant investment, fail to reach the market or have
Sales growth of existing products and launches of new products are
only limited commercial success. This, for example, could be as a
key drivers of GSK’s business. The sales growth from key products
result of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary
such as Seretide/Advair, vaccines, Valtrex and the high potential
regulatory approvals, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture,
products, Avodart, Arixtra and Boniva is expected to continue in
erosion of patent term as a result of a lengthy development period,
2008. Sales growth is also expected from newer products Lovaza,
infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of others
Cervarix, Tykerb/Tyverb, Rotarix, Veramyst/Avamys and Altabax/
or inability to differentiate the product adequately from those with
Altargo. Sales growth of Avandia, GSK’s product for diabetes, has
which it competes.
been adversely impacted following publication in May 2007 of a
meta-analysis. Health authorities such as the US FDA, the European Medicines
Agency and the Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device Agency
Typically, sales of existing products decline dramatically when generic
have increased their focus on safety when assessing the benefit/risk
competition is introduced either on patent expiry or earlier if there
balance of drugs. In light of this increased scrutiny, and other factors,
is a successful challenge to the Group’s patent. In 2007, generic
there has been a reduction in the number of new drugs gaining
competitors to Coreg IR entered the US market. Several other
regulatory approvals in recent years. For example, the FDA approved
products will become exposed to generic competition in the USA
only 19 new drugs in 2007, the lowest single-year total since 1983.
during 2008, including Wellbutrin XL 150mg, Requip IR, Lamictal IR,
Paxil CR and Imitrex. GSK is engaged in legal proceedings regarding Risk of unplanned loss of patents
the validity and infringement of the Group’s patents relating to many Patent infringement litigation
of its products. These are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ below and in The Group’s patents, in common with all patents, can be challenged
Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. at any time. Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges
to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their
GSK expects a sustained flow of new products in the next two
generic product does not infringe the Group’s patents. If the
years. Thirteen new product opportunities are currently filed with
Group is not successful in defending an attack on its patents and
regulators; these include Promacta (USA), Rotarix (USA), Treximet
maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of its major
(USA) and Synflorix (EU and International). GSK currently has 34 key
products, particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest
assets in phase III development/registration.
turnover and margins, the Group’s turnover and margins would be
In its published earnings guidance for 2008 GSK expects that the adversely affected. See Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal
impact of lower Avandia sales, together with increase generic proceedings’, for a discussion of patent-related proceedings in which
competition, will lead to a mid-single digit percentage decline in the Group is involved and page 28 for a description of resolution of
business performance EPS, at constant exchange rates. prior proceedings which affect the dates on which generic versions
of the Group’s products may be introduced.
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business that may
affect future performance including R&D projects, anticipated sales Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions
growth and expected earnings growth. These are discussed in ‘Risk of many of the Group’s most important products, prior to the
factors ‘ below. expiration of the Group’s patents, and have exhibited a readiness
to do so for other products in the future. The US launch of generic
Risk factors products competing with Coreg IR, Zofran, Flonase and Wellbutrin
XL had a significant impact on the Group’s overall turnover and
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business,
earnings for 2007.
financial conditions and results of operations. The factors listed below
are among those that the Group thinks could cause the Group’s Potential changes in intellectual property laws
actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, and regulations
as could other risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Proposals to change existing patent and data exclusivity laws and
Group or which the Group currently deems immaterial. regulations in major markets in which the Group sells its products
are a continuing feature of the political process in those countries,
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful
including proposals that could have the effect of making prosecution
new products
of patents for new products more difficult and time-consuming or
Continued development of commercially viable new products as well
adversely affecting the exclusivity period for the Group’s products,
as the development of additional uses for existing products is critical
including biological products. Should such proposals be enacted they
to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that decline
could have an adverse impact on the Group’s future sales and results
upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
of operations.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the process, and
one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive
regulatory approval.
50 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
srotcaf
ksir
dna
kooltuOBusiness review
Outlook and risk factors
continued
Weakness of intellectual property protection in In other instances third parties may perform analyses of published
certain countries clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate or
In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent meaningful, may raise questions regarding safety of pharmaceutical
protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the products which may be publicised by the media and may result
European Union. In addition, in an effort to control public health in product liability claims. The Group is currently a defendant in
crises, some developing countries, such as South Africa and Brazil, a number of product liability lawsuits, including class actions,
have considered plans for substantial reductions in the scope of that involve substantial claims for damages related to the Group’s
patent protection for pharmaceutical products. In particular, these pharmaceutical products. Litigation, particularly in the USA, is
countries could facilitate competition within their markets from inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts that are not justified
generic manufacturers who would otherwise be unable to introduce by the evidence can occur. Class actions that sweep together all
competing products for a number of years. persons who were prescribed the Group’s products can inflate
the potential liability by the force of numbers. Claims for pain and
Any loss of patent protection, including abrogation of patent rights
suffering and punitive damages are frequently asserted in product
or compulsory licensing, is likely to affect adversely the Group’s
liability actions and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-
operating results in those national markets but is not expected
ended exposure.
to be material to the Group overall. Absence of adequate patent
protection could limit the opportunity to look to such markets for Anti-trust litigation
future sales growth. In the USA it has become increasingly common that following
publicity around government investigations or an adverse outcome
Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and
in prosecution of patent infringement actions, the defendants and
government investigations
direct and indirect purchasers and other payers initiate anti-trust
See Note 44 to the financial statements, ’Legal proceedings’, for a
actions as well. Claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other
discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations – involving
payers are typically filed as class actions and the relief sought may
matters which if proven could give rise to civil and/or criminal liabilities
include treble damages and restitution claims. Damages in adverse
– in which the Group is currently involved. Unfavourable resolution
anti-trust verdicts are subject to automatic trebling in the USA.
of these and similar future proceedings or investigations may have
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought following settlement of
a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition and
patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive
results of operations. The Group has made material provisions in
and in violation of anti-trust laws.
2005, 2006 and 2007 related to legal proceedings and investigations
which reduced its earnings. The Group may also make additional Sales, marketing and regulation
significant provisions related to legal proceedings and investigations The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory
in the future, which would reduce its earnings. In many cases the environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The failure
practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim damages in amounts that bear to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these
no relationship to the underlying harm. Accordingly it is potentially jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings. As
misleading to quantify the potential exposure to claims, proceedings those rules and regulations change or as governmental interpretation
and investigations of the type described in Note 44 to the financial of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct may be called
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. into question. In the USA, for example, the Group is responding
to federal and state governmental investigations into pricing,
Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product
marketing and reimbursement of its prescription drug products.
liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and narrowed the
These investigations could result in related restitution or civil false
coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical companies
claims act litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments,
generally, including the Group.
as well as related proceedings initiated against the Group by or
In order to contain insurance costs in recent years the Group has on behalf of consumers and private payers. Such proceedings may
continued to adjust its coverage profile, accepting a greater degree result in trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each
of un-insured exposure. In addition, where claims are made under violation of law. Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against
insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage Group companies or individuals.
on various grounds. If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld on
Risks of competition, price controls and limitations on sales
these claims, this could result in material additional charges to the
Third party competition
Group’s earnings.
The Group operates in highly competitive businesses. In the
Product liability litigation pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from proprietary
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development products of large international manufacturers and producers of
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of generic pharmaceuticals. Significant product innovations, technical
products for use by humans following approval by regulatory advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors
bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines could adversely affect the Group’s operating results. The Group
are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may cannot predict the timing or impact of competitive products or
become evident. their potential impact on sales of the Group’s products. Continued
consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect
the Group’s competitive position, while continued consolidation
among the Group’s customers may increase pricing pressures.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 51
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
srotcaf
ksir
dna
kooltuOBusiness review
Outlook and risk factors
continued
The Group had eight products with over £500 million in annual global Regulatory controls
sales in 2007. Among these products are Augmentin IR, with respect The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls
to which the Group has generic competition, and Avandia, Imitrex, on the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of
Lamictal and Valtrex, with respect to which the Group’s intellectual its pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly
property rights in the USA are currently the subject of litigation or in the USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not
settlement agreements related to such litigation. Group has had only the cost of product development but also the time required to
generic competition in the USA for Coreg IR, another significant reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so. Health
product, since September 2007. authorities have increased their focus on safety when assessing the
benefit risk/balance of drugs in the context of not only initial product
If these or any of the Group’s other major products were to become
approval but also in the context of approval of additional indications
subject to a problem such as unplanned loss of patent protection, and review of information regarding marketed products. Stricter
unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting
regulatory controls also heighten the risk of changes in product
doctor or patient confidence or pressure from competitive products,
profile or withdrawal by regulators on the basis of post-approval
or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the
concerns over product safety, which could reduce revenues and can
adverse impact on the Group’s revenues and operating results could
result in product recalls and product liability lawsuits. There is also
be significant. In particular, the Group faces intense competition from
greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the USA, on advertising and
manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all of its major
promotion and in particular on direct-to-consumer advertising.
markets. Generic products often enter the market upon expiration
of patents or data exclusivity periods for the Group’s products. In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily cease marketing
Introduction of generic products typically leads to a dramatic loss of a product or face declining sales based on concerns about efficacy
sales and reduces the Group’s revenues and margins for its proprietary or safety (for example, declines in sales of Avandia in 2007 following
products. The expiration dates for patents for the Group’s major publicity around questions regarding risks associated with the
products and a description of litigation settlements which may affect product), whether or not scientifically justified, even in the absence
the dates on which generic versions of the Group’s products may of regulatory action. The development of the post-approval adverse
be introduced are set out on page 28. Legal proceedings involving event profile for a product or the product class may have a major
patent challenges are set out in Note 44 to the financial statements, impact on the marketing and sale of the product.
‘Legal proceedings’.
Risk of interruption of product supply
Governmental and payer controls The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent
Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice
and other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany, regulations. The Group’s manufacturing sites are subject to review
Spain, France and Italy. Some governments intervene directly in and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Compliance
setting prices. In addition, in some markets major purchasers of failure by suppliers of key services and materials or the Group’s own
pharmaceutical products (whether governmental agencies or private manufacturing facilities could lead to product recalls and seizures,
health care providers) have the economic power to exert substantial interruption of production and delays in the approvals of new products
pressure on prices or the terms of access to formularies. pending resolution of manufacturing issues. Non-compliance can
also result in fines and disgorgement of profits. Any interruption of
The Group cannot predict whether existing controls, pressures or
supply or fines or disgorgement remedy could materially and adversely
restrictions will increase or new controls, pressures or restrictions
affect the Group’s financial results. For example, during resolution of
will be introduced that will reduce the Group’s margins or affect
FDA observations of deficiencies in manufacturing practices at the
adversely its ability to introduce new products profitably.
Group’s Cidra, Puerto Rico facility, as referred to in Note 44 to the
For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins and financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, supplies of certain products
the most sales for any country, pricing pressures could significantly manufactured at that site were curtailed or constricted which had an
increase as experience develops under the outpatient pharmaceutical adverse impact on sales in 2005 and 2006.
programme covering Medicare beneficiaries that began in 2006. The
Although the Group undertakes business continuity planning, single
private insurers through which coverage is offered, through their
sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials and finished
enormous purchasing power under the programme, could demand
products creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory
discounts that may implicitly create price controls on prescription
non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites.
drugs. Changes to the enabling legislation could afford the US
government a direct role in negotiating prices under the Medicare Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers
programme. Additionally a number of states have proposed or In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group
implemented various schemes to control prices for their own senior sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition
citizens’ programmes, including importation from other countries to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the
and bulk purchases of drugs. The growth in the number of patients three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 85% of the
covered through large managed care institutions in the USA, which Group’s US pharmaceutical sales. At 31st December 2007 the Group
has increased with implementation of the Medicare benefit, also had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers totalling £915
increases pricing pressures on the Group’s products. These trends million (31st December 2006 – £1,044 million). The Group is exposed
may adversely affect the Group’s revenues and margins from sales in to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such
the USA. that, if one or more of them is affected by financial difficulty, it could
materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
52 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
srotcaf
ksir
dna
kooltuOBusiness review
Outlook and risk factors
continued
Reliance on information technology Accounting standards
The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations
systems, including Internet-based systems, for internal communication promulgated from time to time by international standard setting
as well as communication with customers and suppliers. Any board could result in changes to the recognition of income and
significant disruption of these systems, whether due to computer expense that may adversely impact the Group’s reported financial
viruses or other outside incursions, could materially and adversely results. International standard changes in the market valuation of
affect the Group’s operations. certain financial instruments (such as the equity collar linked to
the Group’s investment in Quest Diagnostics and impairments of
Taxation
equity investments) are reflected in the Group’s reported results
The effective tax rate on the Group’s earnings benefits from the fact
before those gains or losses are actually realised and could have a
that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable rates in significant impact on the income statement in any given period. Also
some jurisdictions outside the UK. Changes in tax laws or in their
accounting for deferred taxation on inter-company inventory may
application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, foreign
give rise to volatility depending upon the ownership of the inventory
dividends, controlled companies or a restriction in tax relief allowed
at the balance sheet date.
on the interest on intra-Group debt, could increase the Group’s
effective tax rate and adversely affect its financial results. The Group Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed
has open issues with the revenue authorities in the UK, the USA, companies like GSK for compliance with accounting and regulatory
Japan and Canada. These matters are discussed in Note 14 to the requirements.
financial statements, ‘Taxation’.
The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory
Disruption from pandemic influenza requirements concerning its financial statements and disclosures.
In the event of pandemic influenza, the Group could be subject to However, other companies have experienced investigations
disruption from a range of factors. National governments may be into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure
more willing to abrogate intellectual property rights for medicines requirements that have resulted in restatements of previously
that might otherwise be in short supply. In a country afflicted by reported results and sometimes significant penalties.
pandemic ‘flu, there would be a risk that employees and their families
Human resources
will be affected with the consequence that sales and distribution and
The Group has approximately 103,000 employees around the
manufacturing activities could be shut down and supply continuity
world and is subject to laws and regulations concerning its
– for active ingredients and finished goods – affected.
employees – ranging from discrimination and harassment to
Environmental liabilities personal privacy to labour relations – that vary significantly from
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The Group faces intense competition for
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites. qualified individuals from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology
The Group has also been identified as a potentially responsible party companies, universities, governmental entities and other
under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation research institutions. Failure to continue to recruit and retain the
and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to right people and maintain a culture of compliance could have
the Group’s use or ownership of such sites. Failure to manage properly a significant adverse effect on the Group.
the environmental risks could result in additional remedial costs
that could materially and adversely affect the Group’s operations.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a
discussion of environmental-related proceedings in which the Group
is involved.
Global political and economic conditions
The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside
the UK. The Group’s management of foreign exchange rates is
discussed in Business Review, ‘Foreign exchange management’ (see
page 49). Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling and other
currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen,
could materially affect the Group’s financial results.
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other economic
factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of political unrest,
legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in
which the Group operates. These factors could materially affect the
Group’s future results of operations.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 53
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
srotcaf
ksir
dna
kooltuOBusiness review
Financial review 2006
In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the Pharmaceutical turnover
following discussion compares results for the year to 31st December
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
2006 with the results for the year to 31st December 2005.
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The sterling growth
All growth rates are at constant exchange rates (CER) unless rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover. Total
otherwise stated. The sterling growth rates may be found in the pharmaceutical turnover in 2006 was £20,078 million compared
tables of pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area on page 55. with £18,661 million in 2005, an increase of 9% CER. In sterling
terms total pharmaceutical turnover increased 8%, 1% less than CER
Exchange due principally to the strength of Sterling against major International
currencies.
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
In 2006, the US dollar fell by 14% against the pound, to $1.96 at
GSK’s ability in 2006 to deliver continued pharmaceutical turnover
the year-end. The year-end rates for the Euro weakened by 1% and
growth was primarily due to an exceptionally broad product portfolio
the Japanese Yen by 15% against Sterling.
of high-value growth products coupled with sales and marketing
excellence. These growth products include Seretide/Advair, the
World market – pharmaceuticals
Avandia product group, Vaccines, Lamictal, Valtrex, Coreg, Requip,
Global pharmaceutical sales increased by 8% in 2006 to Avodart and Boniva.
£328 billion.
Respiratory
World market by Value % of Growth
GSK continued to be the global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals
geographic region £bn total £% with sales of its three key products, Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Flovent
and Serevent amounting to £4.3 billion, up 9%. Total sales of
USA 145.0 44 9
Seretide/Advair, for asthma and COPD, rose 11% to £3.3 billion. In
Europe 92.8 28 6
the USA, sales grew 13% to £1.9 billion. In Europe, sales grew 10%
France 17.6 5 4
to £1.1 billion and in International markets, sales grew 9% to over
Germany 16.6 5 3
£300 million. Market share by value in the anti-asthma and COPD
UK 10.8 3 3
therapy class was 29% in Europe and 33% in the USA, an increase of
Italy 10.5 3 7
2 percentage points in Europe and a flat market share growth in the
Japan 31.3 10 (3)
USA (reflecting lower prescription volumes due to a label change in
Asia Pacific 23.3 7 14
early 2006 that restricted GSK’s ability to promote the product, offset
Latin America 15.9 5 21
by favourable pricing changes).
Middle East, Africa 11.3 3 13
Canada 8.3 3 19 CNS
CNS sales increased 15% to £3.6 billion. Sales increased in the USA
Total 327.9 100 8
and International, but declined in Europe due to generic competition.
Total Seroxat/Paxil sales grew 4% to £620 million, due to strong
Growth in the US market increased to 9%, representing 44% of the
growth of Paxil CR in the USA and Paxil IR in Japan partly offset by
global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with 30% a
generic competition to Paxil IR in Europe.
decade earlier.
Total Wellbutrin sales grew 24% to £900 million. Sales of
At 30th September 2006, GSK held second position in the world
Wellbutrin XL, a once-daily product, grew 25% to £798 million.
pharmaceutical market with a market share of 6.3%, behind Pfizer
In December 2006, generic competition to the Wellbutrin XL
with a market share of 8%. GSK had six of the world’s top 60
300mg tablet (approximately 60% of Wellbutrin sales) entered
pharmaceutical products. These were Avandia, Lamictal, Seretide/
the US market.
Advair, Valtrex, Wellbutrin and Zofran.
Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder,
World market – Value % of Growth grew 19% to just under £1 billion, benefiting from its new indication
top five therapeutic classes £bn total CER% £% to treat one of the most serious forms of epilepsy – primary generalised
Cardiovascular 54.5 17 6 7 tonic-clonic seizures. Lamictal is also the only medicine with long-
Central nervous system 54.0 16 7 8 term clinical data that demonstrates that it can delay the onset of
Alimentary tract and metabolic 39.8 12 7 9 depressive episodes of bipolar disorder.
Anti-infectives (bacterial,
Sales of Requip, for Parkinson’s disease and Restless Legs Syndrome
viral and fungal) excluding
(RLS), grew 74% to £268 million.
vaccines 33.2 10 1 3
Respiratory 21.7 7 5 6
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2006.)
54 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
6002
weiver
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial review 2006
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2006
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2006 2005 Growth 2006 Growth 2006 Growth 2006 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 27 4,995 5,054 – (1) 2,461 (3) (5) 1,697 3 2 837 4 3
Seretide/Advair 3,313 3,003 11 10 1,870 13 11 1,133 10 10 310 9 10
Flixotide/Flovent 659 638 5 3 298 16 14 173 (8) (8) 188 2 –
Serevent 291 330 (10) (12) 86 (16) (17) 140 (13) (13) 65 5 (2)
Flixonase/Flonase 311 656 (52) (53) 184 (63) (64) 51 (15) (15) 76 (14) (16)
Central nervous system 17 3,642 3,219 15 13 2,588 28 26 595 (15) (15) 459 2 (1)
Seroxat/Paxil 620 615 4 1 175 35 32 149 (20) (20) 296 5 –
Paxil IR 448 488 (5) (8) 19 11 6 149 (20) (20) 280 4 (1)
Paxil CR 172 127 37 35 156 38 36 – – – 16 25 33
Wellbutrin 900 739 24 22 882 24 22 2 – – 16 7 14
Wellbutrin IR, SR 102 92 12 11 89 14 11 2 – – 11 – 10
Wellbutrin XL 798 647 25 23 793 25 23 – – – 5 25 25
Imigran/Imitrex 711 697 3 2 551 11 9 118 (18) (18) 42 (12) (14)
Lamictal 996 849 19 17 765 37 35 175 (22) (23) 56 2 2
Requip 268 156 74 72 176 >100 >100 81 21 19 11 25 38
Anti-virals 14 2,827 2,598 10 9 1,354 7 5 855 11 11 618 16 14
HIV 1,515 1,554 (1) (3) 700 (7) (9) 621 3 2 194 8 7
Combivir 528 583 (9 ) (9 ) 238 (14 ) (16 ) 217 (4 ) (4) 73 – –
Trizivir 268 303 (11 ) (12 ) 141 (13 ) (15 ) 113 (7 ) (8 ) 14 (7 ) –
Epivir 202 261 (21 ) (23 ) 69 (25 ) (26 ) 90 (26 ) (26 ) 43 (2 ) (7 )
Ziagen 117 136 (13 ) (14 ) 48 (11 ) (13 ) 41 (24 ) (24 ) 28 4 4
Agenerase, Lexiva 131 112 18 17 74 7 6 48 40 37 9 14 29
Epzicom/Kivexa 241 118 >100 >100 125 49 47 97 >100 >100 19 >100 >100
Herpes 965 826 19 17 610 30 28 144 4 4 211 3 –
Valtrex 845 695 24 22 600 30 28 109 12 11 136 10 7
Zovirax 120 131 (6) (8) 10 67 67 35 (15) (15) 75 (7) (11)
Zeffix 162 145 12 12 13 8 8 23 10 10 126 13 13
Relenza 91 5 >100 >100 – – – 62 >100 >100 29 >100 >100
Metabolic 8 1,875 1,495 27 25 1,277 30 28 252 33 33 346 12 12
Avandia 1,399 1,154 23 21 1,068 26 24 125 13 12 206 13 16
Avandamet 204 175 17 17 86 (22) (24) 92 >100 >100 26 41 53
Avandaryl 42 – – – 40 – – – – – 2 – –
Bonviva/Boniva 95 18 >100 >100 83 >100 >100 12 >100 >100 – – –
Vaccines 8 1,692 1,389 23 22 465 40 38 709 20 20 518 13 13
Hepatitis 479 444 9 8 161 21 18 227 2 2 91 8 10
Infanrix, Pediarix 511 431 29 28 172 20 18 281 40 39 58 12 12
Boostrix 60 29 >100 >100 41 >100 >100 15 88 88 4 67 33
Cardiovascular and 7
urogenital 1,636 1,331 24 23 1,072 42 40 395 (4) (5) 169 13 13
Coreg 779 573 38 36 773 38 36 – – – 6 20 20
Levitra 43 40 8 8 41 20 17 1 (75) (75) 1 – –
Avodart 216 129 69 67 131 >100 >100 69 25 25 16 67 78
Arixtra 58 24 >100 >100 32 >100 >100 23 >100 >100 3 >100 >100
Fraxiparine 209 211 (1) (1) – – – 179 – – 30 (6) (6)
Anti-bacterials 8 1,369 1,519 (9) (10) 217 (15) (17) 628 (12) (13) 524 (2) (3)
Augmentin 570 666 (14) (14) 94 (31) (32) 268 (15) (15) 208 – (1)
Zinnat/Ceftin 164 197 (16) (17) 12 20 20 82 (27) (27) 70 (5) (7)
Oncology and emesis 5 1,069 1,016 7 5 836 12 10 153 (7) (7) 80 (11) (12)
Zofran 847 837 3 1 679 8 6 107 (14) (14) 61 (16) (18)
Hycamtin 113 99 15 14 72 11 9 34 26 26 7 17 17
Other 6 973 1,040 (5) (6) 83 19 19 263 (19) (18) 627 (1) (3)
Zantac 232 244 (2) (5) 72 28 24 52 (19) (19) 108 (7) (11)
100 20,078 18,661 9 8 10,353 16 14 5,547 1 – 4,178 6 4
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 55
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
6002
weiver
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial review 2006
continued
Anti-virals Oncology and emesis
Total sales of HIV products were £1.5 billion, down 1%. Competition Sales of Zofran grew 3% to £847 million, driven by the US market,
to older products, Combivir down 9% to £528 million and Epivir up 8% to £679 million. Europe and International sales declined
down 21% to £202 million, was mostly offset by strong sales 14% and 16% respectively due to generic competition. A generic
growth of new products Epzicom/Kivexa which more than doubled competitor to Zofran entered the US market in November 2006.
to £241 million and Lexiva/Agenerase up 18% to £131 million.
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Sales of Valtrex, rose 24% to £845 million, with US sales up 30% to Sales of Coreg, for heart disease, grew 38% to £779 million. Avodart,
£600 million driven by patients switching to suppression therapy. for benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlarged prostate), had a very strong
year, with sales increasing 69% to £216 million.
Metabolic
GSK launched Avandia for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in 1999 Anti-bacterials
and a combination product, Avandamet, for blood sugar control in Anti-bacterial sales declined 9% reflecting generic competition and
2002. The product group was expanded further in February 2006 a weaker ‘flu season.
with the launch in the USA of a fixed-dose combination treatment,
Other therapeutic areas
Avandaryl, which combines Avandia with a sulfonylurea.
Sales of Zantac fell 2% to £232 million, with declines in Europe and
In 2006, sales of the Avandia product group grew 24% to £1.2 International partially offset by a 28% growth in the USA.
billion in the USA. In Europe, sales grew 39% to £217 million driven
Consumer Healthcare sales
by the increasing use of Avandamet. Sales in International markets
An analysis of Consumer Healthcare sales is set out in the
rose 17% to £234 million. The Avandia product group achieved in
following table:
2006 a market share by value in oral anti-diabetics of 37% in the
2006 2005 Growth
USA and 19% in Europe, up 2 and 5 percentage points, respectively.
£m £m CER% £%
In the USA, Avandamet prescription volume growth was adversely
OTC medicines 1,496 1,437 5 4
impacted by product supply issues during the year which have now
Analgesics 380 362 7 5
been resolved.
Dermatological 165 161 4 2
In December, GSK presented data from the landmark ADOPT study, Gastro-intestinal 252 249 2 1
which demonstrated that Avandia is more effective than metformin, Respiratory tract 172 154 12 12
or a sulphonylurea, in long-term blood sugar control in type 2 Smoking control 353 336 7 5
diabetes. These data are in addition to those recently presented from Natural wellness support 132 133 – (1)
the DREAM study, which showed that Avandia can reduce the risk
of progression to type 2 diabetes. Data from both these studies are Oral care 993 943 6 5
expected to be filed with regulatory agencies during the first half Nutritional healthcare 658 619 7 6
of 2007. 3,147 2,999 6 5
GSK recorded in turnover a £95 million share of co-promotion income
Consumer Healthcare sales grew 6% to £3.1 billion, with sales in
for Boniva/Bonviva, a new once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the
International up 10% and Europe up 7%, performing well. Total
treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis, which was developed
sales in the USA were flat, with an improved performance in the
with Roche, and launched in 2005.
fourth quarter, with sales up 7%.
Vaccines
OTC medicines
Overall vaccine sales increased 23% to £1.7 billion, with good
Over-the-counter medicine sales grew 5% to £1.5 billion with
performances from all regions: US sales rose 40% to £465 million;
Panadol and smoking control performing well.
European sales grew 20% to £709 million and sales in International
were up 13% to £518 million. Key contributors were: Infanrix/ Oral care
Pediarix, GSK’s combination vaccines for children, with sales up 29% Oral care sales grew 6% to £993 million. Sensodyne grew strongly,
to £511 million; and sales of hepatitis vaccines, which grew 9% to up 19% for the year to £257 million. Sales of Aquafresh were down
£479 million, benefiting from a strong US performance of Havrix, 3% to £283 million.
following approval last year for broader paediatric use.
Nutritional healthcare
Sales of new vaccines also helped drive overall sales growth. Total Nutritional healthcare products sales grew 7% to £658 million.
sales of Rotarix, for rotavirus, Boostrix, for prevention of diphtheria, Lucozade, grew 14% to £301 million, and Horlicks, grew 6% to
tetanus and whooping cough, and influenza vaccines, Fluarix/ £156 million. Ribena sales were down 1% to £169 million.
FluLaval, reached £274 million, up 91%. This was the first full
year sales of FluLaval following the acquisition of ID Biomedical in
late 2005.
56 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
6002
weiver
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial review 2006
continued
Operating profit Operating profit
Overall, the operating profit margin increased 1.9 percentage points
The analysis below of operating profit and subsequent discussion
as operating profit increased 14% in sterling terms to £7,808 million.
compares the 2006 results with 2005 results.
Operating profit increased 17% at constant exchange rates and the
2006 2005 Growth margin increased 2.4 percentage points, reflecting SG&A growth
£m % £m % CER% £% below the rate of turnover growth, partially offset by higher costs
Turnover 23,225 100.0 21,660 100.0 9 7 related to programmes to deliver future cost savings and lower other
operating income.
Cost of sales (5,010) (21.6) (4,764) (22.0) 6 5
Selling, general Gains from asset disposals were £169 million (2005 – £290 million),
and administration (7,257) (31.2) (7,250) (33.5) – – costs for legal matters were £333 million (2005 – £430 million), the
Research and fair value movements on the Quest collar and Theravance options
development (3,457) (14.9) (3,136) (14.5) 11 10 resulted in an income of £29 million (2005 – £19 million) and charges
Other operating relating to cost-saving programmes were £205 million (2005 – £141
income 307 1.3 364 1.7 million). The total operating profit impact of these items was a
£340 million charge in 2006, compared with a £262 million charge
Operating profit 7,808 33.6 6,874 31.7 17 14
in 2005.
Cost of sales
Profit before taxation
Cost of sales declined as a percentage of turnover by 0.4 percentage
points. At constant exchange rates the decline was 0.6 percentage The discussion below compares the 2006 results with the 2005
points reflecting favourable price and regional mix impact. results.
Selling, general and administration Net finance costs
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs as a percentage of 2006 2005
turnover reduced 2.3 percentage points. At constant exchange rates, Finance income £m £m
the decrease was 2.5 percentage points, reflecting flat expenditure Interest and other finance income 285 276
compared with prior year on a turnover growth of 9%. SG&A
Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 (19)
costs were flat due to higher advertising, promotion and selling
287 257
expenditure offset by lower general and administration expenditure.
Advertising, promotion and selling increased 3% and accounted for
a 2% increase in total SG&A. General and administration expenditure Finance costs
declined 5% and accounted for a 2% decline in total SG&A, of Interest costs (314) (427)
which one percentage point was due to lower charges related to Unwinding of discount on liabilities (36) (25)
legal matters and one percentage point was due to lower costs Fair value adjustments and hedges (2) 1
related to programmes to deliver future cost savings.
(352) (451)
Research and development
R&D expenditure increased 11% partly as a result of higher charges Finance income increased compared with 2005 predominantly due
related to restructuring programmes. Excluding restructuring costs to increased income on extended credit on receivables and increased
R&D grew 8%, broadly in-line with turnover. Pharmaceuticals R&D interest income due to higher US dollar interest rates. Finance costs
expenditure, excluding restructuring costs, represented 16.2% (2005 reduced due to the refinancing of two expensive bonds in December
– 16.2%) of pharmaceutical turnover. 2005 and January 2006 as well as lower swap costs resulting from
reduced interest rate differentials.
Other operating income
Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s
adjustments to the Quest collar and Theravance options. Other holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
operating income was £307 million in 2006 compared with £364
million in 2005. The decrease is primarily due to lower product and
asset disposal profits partially offset by the favourable fair value
movement to the Quest collar and Theravance options.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 57
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
6002
weiver
laicnaniFBusiness review
Financial review 2006
continued
Taxation Profit for the year was £5,498 million, an increase of 17% (14%
2006 2005 in sterling terms). Profit attributable to minority interests was £109
£m £m million and profit attributable to shareholders was £5,389 million,
UK corporation tax 400 172 an increase of 18% (15% in sterling terms). The interest cost of the
Overseas taxation 2,310 1,847 share buy-back adversely impacted the Group’s earnings but benefits
Earnings per share (EPS). EPS increased 19%, reflecting higher
Current taxation 2,710 2,019 profits and also the reduction in the weighted average number of
Deferred taxation (409) (103) shares resulting from the Group’s share buy-back programme. At
Total 2,301 1,916 actual rates of exchange, earnings per share increased 16%. The
unfavourable currency impact on EPS of three percentage points
The charge for taxation on profit amounting to £2,301 million, reflected a strengthening of Sterling against other major currencies
represented an effective tax rate of 29.5% (2005 – 28.5%). The and compared with a two percentage point unfavourable currency
Group balance sheet at 31st December 2006 included a tax payable impact on turnover.
liability of £621 million and a tax recoverable asset of £186 million.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving
significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply
routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which
individual Group companies are liable to tax. Disagreements with,
and between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in
particular the price at which goods should be transferred between
Group companies in different tax jurisdictions, can produce
conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be
taxed in individual territories. Resolution of such issues is a continuing
fact of life for GSK. The Group had significant open issues with the
revenue authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada. On 11th
September 2006 GSK and the US Internal Revenue Service agreed
to a resolution of their dispute.
Profit for the year
2006 2005 Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Profit after taxation for the year 5,498 4,816 17 14
Profit attributable to
shareholders 5,389 4,689 18 15
Earnings per share (pence) 95.5p 82.6p 19 16
Earnings per ADS (US$) $3.53 $3.00
Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,643 5,674
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 94.5p 82.0p
Diluted earnings per ADS (US$) $3.50 $2.98
Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,700 5,720
58 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
6002
weiver
laicnaniFCorporate governance
The corporate governance section discusses GlaxoSmithKline’s
management structures and governance procedures.
It contains the company’s reporting disclosures on corporate
governance required by the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance of the Financial Reporting Council (Combined Code),
including the required statement of compliance.
The section also contains the company’s reports on compliance with
the US laws and regulations that apply to it.
The Board 60
Corporate Executive Team 61
Governance and policy 62
Dialogue with shareholders 64
Share capital and control 64
Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political Expenditure 65
Annual General Meeting 65
Internal control framework 66
Committee reports 67
The Combined Code 69
US law and regulation 69
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 59
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
The Board Sir Deryck Maughan (Aged 60)
Appointed on 1st June 2004. Non-Executive Director. Sir Deryck is
Sir Christopher Gent (Aged 59)
a Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. He was
Appointed on 1st June 2004. Chairman. Sir Christopher was the
formerly Chairman and CEO of Citigroup International and of
Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Group plc, until his retirement
Salomon Brothers Inc. He is a Non-Executive Director of Reuters
in July 2003. He is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers
Group plc and BlackRock Inc.
Holdings Inc., a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari S.p.A., a member of
KPMG’s Chairman’s Advisory Group, a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co. Dr Daniel Podolsky (Aged 54)
and a member of the Advisory Board of Reform. Appointed on 1st July 2006. Non-Executive Director. Dr Podolsky is
Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier (Aged 60)
at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Retiring on 21st May 2008. Chief
as well as Chief Academic Officer of Partners HealthCare System.
Executive Officer. Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive Director of
He is also Chairman of the Board and Scientific Co-Founder of the
SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and became Chief Executive Officer
GI Company.
in April 2000. He is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies
Corporation and a member of the Board of Overseers of the Weill Sir Ian Prosser (Aged 64)
Cornell Medical College. Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Senior Independent Director. Sir Ian
was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
Andrew Witty (Aged 43)
He is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc, a Non-Executive
Appointed on 31st January 2008. CEO Designate. He will succeed
Director of Sara Lee Corporation and a member of the CBI
Dr Garnier on 21st May 2008. Mr Witty joined the Group in 1985
President’s Committee.
and has held senior positions in Asia, Africa, Europe and the USA. In
January 2003 he was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Europe. Dr Ronaldo Schmitz (Aged 69)
He has served as a board member of the Singapore Economic Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Non-Executive Director. Dr Schmitz
Development Board. He is a member of the INSEAD UK Council, was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is
a Director of the Office for Strategic Coordination of Health Research, a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc, a member
sits on the Imperial College Commercialisation Advisory Board and is of the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot
a member of the Health Innovation Council in the UK. Corporation and of the Supervisory Board of SICK AG.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson (Aged 60) Dr Moncef Slaoui (Aged 48)
Appointed on 1st October 2007. Non-Executive Director. Professor Appointed on 17th May 2006. Chairman, Research & Development.
Anderson is the Professor of Infectious Disease Epidemiology in the Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the
Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London and until September development of a robust vaccines pipeline. He has a PhD in Molecular
2007, was the Chief Scientific Adviser at the Ministry of Defence in Biology and Immunology from Université Libre de Bruxelles.
the UK. He will become Rector of Imperial College in July 2008.
Tom de Swaan (Aged 61)
Dr Stephanie Burns (Aged 53) Appointed on 1st January 2006. Non-Executive Director. Mr de
Appointed on 12th February 2007. Non-Executive Director. Dr Burns Swaan was a member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial
is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dow Corning Officer of ABN AMRO until January 2006. He is a member of the
Corporation. She is also a member of the American Chemical Society Board of Directors of Zurich Financial Services and Vice Chairman
and sits on the Executive Committee of the Society of Chemical of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of
Industry, America Section, serves on the Board of Directors of the Royal Ahold, a member of the Supervisory Boards of Royal DSM and
American Chemistry Council, and on the Board of Directors for of Corporate Express, and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board
the Society for Women’s Health Research. Dr Burns holds a PhD in of VanLanschot Bankiers.
organic chemistry from Iowa State University.
Christopher Viehbacher (Aged 47)
Lawrence Culp (Aged 44) Appointed on 31st January 2008. President, US Pharmaceuticals.
Appointed on 1st July 2003. Non-Executive Director. Mr Culp is Mr Viehbacher joined the Group in 1988 and has held a variety
President and Chief Executive Officer of Danaher Corporation. of senior positions in Europe and Canada. He was appointed
Prior to joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, previously President, US Pharmaceuticals in January 2003. He served on the
Andersen Consulting. European Commission approved G10 working group to restore
the competitiveness of the EU Pharmaceutical industry. He is a
Sir Crispin Davis (Aged 58)
board member of PhRMA, the CEO Roundtable on Cancer and
Appointed on 1st July 2003. Non-Executive Director. Sir Crispin is Chief
Research!America.
Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC. Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of
Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, where he was Sir Robert Wilson (Aged 64)
a member of the main board and Group Managing Director of United Appointed on 1st November 2003. Non-Executive Director. Sir Robert
Distillers. He spent his early career with Procter & Gamble. is Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc and The Economist Group
and was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
Julian Heslop (Aged 54)
Appointed on 1st April 2005. Chief Financial Officer. Mr Heslop joined Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on
Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998. In January 2001 page 63.
he was appointed Senior Vice President, Operations Controller. Prior to
joining the Group he held senior finance roles at Grand Metropolitan.
60 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
Corporate Executive Team (CET) Duncan Learmouth
Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and
JP Garnier
Community Partnerships
Chief Executive Officer
Mr Learmouth is responsible for the Group’s investor relations,
As Chief Executive Officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the
internal and external communications, its image and partnerships
management of the Group. He oversees all operational aspects of
with global communities. He joined Glaxo in 1991 and was Vice
the Group, including establishing policies, objectives and initiatives,
President, Global Investor Relations, before appointment to his
and he directs long-term strategy. He was formerly Chief Executive
current position in July 2006.
Officer of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
Bill Louv
Andrew Witty
Chief Information Officer
CEO Designate
Mr Louv succeeded Dr Calhoun as Chief Information Officer in
Mr Witty was appointed CEO Designate in October 2007, and will
January 2007. He is responsible for information technology, a global
succeed JP Garnier as CEO May 2008. Andrew joined Glaxo UK in
function that enables key business processes across all parts of the
1985. During his career with the company he has held the roles of
Group. He joined the Group in 1994 and has held a number of
Vice President and General Manager, Marketing for Glaxo Wellcome
increasingly senior roles in IT, including for US Pharmaceuticals and
Inc., in the US, and Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific. He was
GSK’s R&D functions.
appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Europe for GlaxoSmithKline
in January 2003. Dan Phelan
Senior Vice President, Human Resources
Rupert Bondy
Mr Phelan is responsible for benefits, compensation, recruitment,
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
organisation development, leadership development and succession
Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, together
planning, human resource information systems and employee health
with environment, health and safety issues and security. He was a
management. He was a lawyer in private practice before joining
lawyer in private practice before joining SmithKline Beecham. He will
Smith Kline & French in 1981.
leave GSK in March 2008.
David Pulman
John Clarke
President, Global Manufacturing and Supply
President, Consumer Healthcare
Dr Pulman is responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply
Mr Clarke is responsible for the Consumer Healthcare business which
organisation and Global Procurement. He trained as a microbiologist
produces oral, over-the-counter and nutritional healthcare products.
and joined Glaxo in 1978. He has broad experience of manufacturing
He joined Beecham in 1976 and was the President of the Futures
operations having previously led the Primary Supply, European
Group before his current appointment in January 2006.
manufacturing, North American manufacturing, Global Logistics and
Marc Dunoyer Manufacturing Strategy organisations.
President, Pharmaceuticals Japan
Moncef Slaoui
Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in March
Chairman, Research & Development
2003. He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice President
Dr Slaoui leads the Group’s complex drug discovery and development
and Regional Director, Japan until his current appointment.
activities. He joined the Group in 1988 and was Senior Vice President,
Eddie Gray Worldwide Business Development until his current appointment in
President, Pharmaceuticals Europe June 2006.
Mr Gray became responsible for the Group’s operations in Europe in
Chris Viehbacher
January 2008. He joined Beecham in 1988 and, prior to his current
President, US Pharmaceuticals
appointment, was Senior Vice President and General Manager,
Mr Viehbacher is responsible for US Pharmaceuticals. He joined
Pharmaceuticals UK.
Wellcome in 1988 and was responsible for GSK’s European
Russell Greig Pharmaceuticals business before his current appointment in 2003.
President, Pharmaceuticals International
Other members
Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA,
Dr Calhoun retired as Chief Information Officer on 31st January 2007.
Japan and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries. He
Mr Stout left the Group in February 2008. Mr Ingram continues to
joined the Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide
act as a special consultant to the Group and attends CET meetings
Business Development for R&D prior to his current appointment in
in that capacity.
March 2003.
Julian Heslop
Chief Financial Officer
Mr Heslop became Chief Financial Officer on 1st April 2005. As head
of the finance function Mr Heslop is responsible for activities such
as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, finance systems,
internal audit, insurance and real estate. He joined Glaxo Wellcome
as Financial Controller in April 1998.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 61
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
Governance and policy Board process
The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders,
The Board and Corporate Executive Team
for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and
The Directors are listed under ‘The Board’ on page 60.
achieves the strategic objectives it sets. The Board discharges those
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings which
governance and is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities, includes the approval of overall budgetary planning and business
strategy and financial performance. strategy. The Board reviews the company’s internal controls and risk
management policies and approves its governance structure and
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is responsible for executive
code of ethics.
management of the Group and is assisted by the CET. The CET meets
11 times per year and otherwise as necessary. The members and their The Board appraises and approves major financing, investment and
responsibilities are listed under ‘Corporate Executive Team’ (page 61). licensing decisions in excess of defined thresholds. In addition, the
Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a
The Board comprises five Executive and eleven Non-Executive Directors.
whole. This includes:
The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in
character and judgement. Dr Schmitz has served on the Board for more • engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive
than nine years, having been appointed to the Board of Glaxo Wellcome Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the financial
plc on 1st January 1997. During consideration of the Annual Review and operating performance of GSK and external issues material to
of Board effectiveness at its meeting in December 2007, the Board the Group’s prospects
concluded that Dr Schmitz remained independent, notwithstanding
• evaluating progress toward the achievement of the Group’s
his length of service. In the opinion of the Board, Dr Schmitz continued
financial and business objectives and annual plans
to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, such as objectively
challenging management and taking part in rigorous debate, while at • monitoring, through reports received directly or from various
the same time possessing an outstanding knowledge of the company’s committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
business and affairs, together with his experience gained as Chairman
The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for the
of the Audit Committee. In a long cycle investment business, such as
CEO and the other Executive Directors. The Board has given the CEO
GSK, it was considered to be particularly important to have experienced
broad authority to operate the business of the Group, and the CEO
members on the Board. When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed to
is accountable for, and reports to the Board on the performance of
the Board as Deputy Chairman, he was determined by the Board to
the business.
be independent. Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board on
1st January 2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he was CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their areas
excluded from the determination of whether at least half the Board of responsibility, and the Board meets with all the CET members on
are independent Non-Executive Directors. Sir Christopher Gent did an annual basis to discuss collectively the Group’s strategy.
not hold a position on a Board Committee where independence was
A primary element of the induction process for new Non-Executive
required under the Combined Code. He has however been appointed
Directors is undertaken by members of the CET, and all Non-Executive
a member of the Remuneration Committee effective 1st January 2007
Directors are encouraged to have separate informal discussions at
following the recent change to the Combined Code.
their discretion with any CET members.
The Board considers that Professor Sir Roy Anderson, Dr Burns, Mr
The Board met six times in 2007, with each member attending as
Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Podolsky, Sir Ian Prosser,
follows:
Dr Schmitz, Mr de Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are independent in
accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code. Number of meetings Number of
Name held whilst a Board member meetings attended
At the date of publication and throughout 2007, a majority of the Sir Christopher Gent 6 6
Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent Non- Dr JP Garnier 6 6
Executive Directors. Mr J Heslop 6 6
Dr M Slaoui 6 6
Sir Christopher Gent succeeded Sir Christopher Hogg on 1st January
Professor Sir Roy Anderson* 2 2
2005 and chaired the company throughout 2007. Dr Garnier is the CEO.
Dr S Burns* 5 5
He will retire from the Board at the end of the AGM on 21st May 2008
Mr L Culp 6 6
and Mr Andrew Witty will succeed him as CEO. Mr Witty’s biographical
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6
details can be found on page 60. Mr Witty was appointed to the Board
Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6
on 31st January 2008. The Chairman leads the Board, and represents the
Dr D Podolsky 6 6
Board to the CEO and other CET members as necessary between Board
Sir Ian Prosser 6 6
meetings. The CEO manages the Group and implements the strategy
Dr R Schmitz 6 6
and policies adopted by the Board. The Chairman and the chairmen of
Mr T de Swaan 6 6
Board Committees communicate regularly with the CEO and other CET
Sir Robert Wilson 6 6
members. The division of responsibilities between the role of Chairman
and the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by the Board and * Professor Anderson joined the Board on 1st October 2007 and Dr Burns joined
appears in full on the company’s website. on 12th February 2007.
In addition to the 6 scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a
Sir Ian Prosser was appointed Senior Independent Director (SID) on
quorate basis on 3 occasions.
1st January 2005 and held this role throughout 2007.
62 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
Business environment development Remuneration Committee
To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and
matters, including legal, governance and regulatory developments, remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET
presentations are made on a regular basis by both external and and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it evaluates
internal advisers. and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive
remuneration policy. The Committee consists entirely of independent
Independent advice
Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman, in accordance
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one
with the Combined Code. It meets at least four times a year and
or more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent
otherwise as necessary. Information on the remuneration of Directors
legal and/or financial advice at the company’s expense. There is
is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86.
an agreed procedure to enable them to do so. This is explained in
the Corporate Governance section of the company’s website. The Chairman of the company and the CEO are responsible for
evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the
Indemnification of Directors
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in section
234 of the Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of the Nominations Committee
Directors and former Directors who held office during 2007. The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and
composition of the Board and the appointment of members to
Company Secretary
the Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board as
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available
appropriate. The Committee also monitors the planning of succession
to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures. The Company
to the Board and Senior Management. The Committee consists entirely
Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell, who was appointed in May 2000. He
of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a majority are independent, and
is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984. He is secretary to all of
meets at least once a year and otherwise as necessary. The Nominations
the Board Committees.
Committee Report is given on pages 68 to 69.
Board Committees
Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Board has established a number of Committees and provides
The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of Non-
sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties. Executive
Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the regular
Directors are not members of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations
review of external issues that have the potential for serious impact
or Corporate Responsibility Committees, although they may be invited
upon the Group’s business and reputation and for the oversight of
to attend meetings. Each Director is a member of the Corporate
reputation and the views of external stakeholders. The Committee is
Administration & Transactions and Financial Results Committees.
also responsible for governance oversight of the Group’s worldwide
Membership of these Committees is shown in the table below.
donations and community support. The Committee meets formally
Corporate
three times a year and otherwise as necessary. The Corporate
Audit Remuneration NominationsResponsibility
Responsibility Committee Report is given on page 69.
Sir Christopher Gent – M C C
Professor Sir Roy Anderson – – – – Financial Results Committee
Dr S Burns – – – M The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of
Mr L Culp – M – – the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review and
Sir Crispin Davis – M – – the convening of the Annual General Meeting, together with the
Sir Deryck Maughan M – – – preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results. Each Director
is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a meeting is
Dr D Podolsky M – – M
any three members. To be quorate, each meeting must include the
Sir Ian Prosser M – M M
Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CEO or
Dr R Schmitz M M M –
the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The Committee meets as necessary.
Mr T de Swaan C – – M
Sir Robert Wilson M C – – Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee
The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews
Key: C = Chairman M = Member
and approves matters in connection with the administration of the
The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of each Group’s business, and certain corporate transactions. The Committee
Committee. The current full terms of reference of each Committee consists of the Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary.
may be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Corporate The Committee meets as necessary.
Governance section of the company’s website.
Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors
Audit Committee The performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Board, its
The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting Committees and Directors during 2007 was undertaken by the SID and
process, the system of internal controls, the management of risks implemented in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen, with the
and the external and internal audit process. The Committee also support of the Company Secretary. The Board considered the review
proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors conclusions at its meeting in December 2007 and agreed a number of
and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of minor improvements to its procedures and operating methodology.
their work. The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-
The Audit Committee Chairman undertook the review of the Audit
Executive Directors. It meets at least four times a year and otherwise
Committee for 2007, building on the work undertaken by an external
as necessary. The Audit Committee Report is on pages 67 to 68.
consultant’s review of the Committee in 2006.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 63
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
Dialogue with shareholders The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends,
when declared, the company’s reports and accounts, to attend and
Financial results are announced quarterly.
speak at General Meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when to exercise voting rights.
its half-year and full-year results are announced. The full-year results
There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on the holding
are included in the company’s Annual Report and Annual Review,
of Ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to
which are published for shareholders. In 2007, the company’s half-
any transfers. No Ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard
year results were published in a national newspaper shortly after
to control of the company and there are no restrictions on voting
release. The CEO and CFO give presentations on the full-year results
rights. Major shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all
to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
other shareholders. There are no known arrangements under which
There are webcast teleconferences after the release of the first, financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the
second and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers
and the media. The Annual Report, Annual Review and quarterly or on voting rights.
results are available on the company’s website.
Shares acquired through GSK share schemes and plans rank equally
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) takes place in London, and formal with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. The trustees
notification is sent to shareholders at least one month in advance. At of the company’s Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) trusts have
the Meeting, a business presentation is made to shareholders and all waived their rights to dividends on shares held by the ESOP trusts.
Directors able to attend are available, formally during the AGM, and
Change of control
informally afterwards, for questions. Committee Chairmen ordinarily
The company is not party to any significant agreements that would
attend the AGM to respond to shareholders’ questions. The entire Board
take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a
was in attendance at the company’s AGM in May 2007. All resolutions at
takeover bid.
the AGM are decided on a poll as required by the company’s Articles of
Association. The results of the poll are announced to the London Stock The company does not have agreements with any Director or Officer
Exchange and posted on the company’s website. Details of the 2008 that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment
AGM are set out in the section ‘Annual General Meeting’ (see page 65) resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s
and the Notice of AGM is published on the company’s website. share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans
to vest on a takeover.
To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and
understand the views of major shareholders about the company, Interests in voting rights
the Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specific issues, Other than as stated below, as far as the company is aware, there
as well as general shareholder preferences. are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the
company. Information provided to the company pursuant to the
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders
Financial Services and Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency
on performance, plans and objectives through a programme of
Rules (DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on
regular meetings.
the company’s website.
The Group’s Investor Relations department, with offices in London
At 22nd February 2008, the company had received notifications in
and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors
accordance with the FSA’s DTRs of the following notifiable interests,
throughout the year.
in the voting rights in the company’s issued share capital:
The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to hear
No. of Percentage of issued
their views and discuss issues of mutual importance. shares capital (%)*
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meets annually with Legal & General Management
major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy. Limited 289,799,780 5.29
Barclays PLC 199,225,616 3.63
All Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available
to meet with major shareholders if requested.
* P ercentage of Ordinary shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares as at 22nd
February 2008.
The company’s website provides access to current financial and
business information about the Group. The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s
ADRs, which are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Ordinary
Share capital and control shares representing the company’s ADR program, which are
managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY
Details of the company’s authorised and issued share capital and the
(Nominees) Limited. Details of the number of Ordinary shares held
number of shares held in Treasury, as at 31st December 2007, can
by the Depositary can be found on page 176.
be found in Note 33 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and
share premium account’. GSK’s shares are listed on the London Stock The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests in its own
Exchange and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in shares, other than in connection with the company’s share buy-back
the form of American Depositary shares (ADSs). Each ADS represents programme. Details of the shares purchased, cancelled and held in
two Ordinary shares. Treasury are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements, ‘Share
capital and share premium account’.
64 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
Directors and Officers Donations to EU political organisations and
The interests of Directors and Officers and their connected persons in EU political expenditure
the issued share capital of the company are given in the Remuneration
At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company
Report (pages 71 to 86).
to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political
The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and
contained in the company’s Articles of Association. The company’s Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000 each year. This authority
Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the has since been renewed annually. Although the company does not
legislation in force from time to time. make and does not intend to make such payments or donations to
EU political parties, within the normal meaning of that expression, the
The Articles provide that directors may be appointed by an ordinary
definition in the legislation of ’EU Political Organisation’ is wide. It may
resolution of the members or by a resolution of the directors, provided
extend to bodies, which the company and its subsidiaries might wish to
that, in the latter instance, a director appointed in this way retires at
support including those concerned with policy review, law reform, the
the first AGM following his appointment.
representation of the business community and special interest groups,
The Articles also provide that at every AGM at least one third of such as those concerned with the environment. No donations were made
the directors retire by rotation, and detail the circumstances in to EU political organisations during 2007. The Group made donations
which and how they may be re-elected. The company’s members to non-EU political organisations totalling £276,000 during 2007
may remove a director by passing an ordinary resolution of which (£319,000 in 2006).
special notice has been given. A director may automatically cease
Donations of £249,000 (£290,000 in 2006) were made in the USA,
to be a director if (i) a bankrupcy order is made against him, (ii) he
£27,000 (£27,000 in 2006) in Canada and £nil (£2,000 in 2006) in
makes an arrangement or composition with his creditors or applies
Australia. The USA is the largest recipient of political donations, and this
for an interim order in connection with a voluntary arrangement, (iii)
reflects the US political system, where candidates are sponsored solely
he is suffering from a mental disorder, (iv) he has missed directors’
by donations from individuals, NGOs, companies and other parties.
meetings for a continuous period of six months without permission
and the other directors resolve that he shall cease to be a director, (v) In line with US law, the corporate donations by GSK are not made at
he is prohibited from being a director by law, (vi) he resigns, (vii) he a federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the state
offers to resign and the other directors accept that offer, or (viii) at and local levels. Donations are accepted practice in the USA, and as
least three other directors require him to resign. a major employer in a heavily regulated industry, it is important for
GSK to engage fully in the political process. Donations are one of
The company’s articles may be amended by a special resolution of
the ways of doing this. GSK supports those candidates who seek an
the members.
environment that appropriately rewards high-risk, high-investment
The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the industries and who believe in free market principles and intellectual
company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, available on property rights.
GSK’s website. As provided in those Articles, the directors may exercise
The situation is similar in Canada, and donations follow the same
all the company’s powers provided that the Articles or applicable
guidelines. In the rest of the world donations are very rare and of
legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised
low value.
by the members. The directors have been authorised to issue and
allot Ordinary shares, pursuant to Articles 9-15 and have authority to There is also a GSK Political Action Committee (PAC) in the USA
make market purchases of shares pursuant to Article 8. The powers which gives political donations. PAC’s are employee organisations
under Articles 8, and 10-13 are referred to shareholders at the AGM which allow employees to contribute to a fund for political donations.
for renewal. Shareholders are also requested to renew the directors’ Employees decide upon the recipients of the PAC donations. In 2007,
power to make market purchases of shares at each AGM. Any shares a total of £522,172 (£735,600 in 2006) was donated to political
purchased may be cancelled or held as Treasury shares. organisations by the GSK PAC.
Share buy-back programme
Annual General Meeting
The company has repurchased £11.6 billion of its own shares for
cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which £3.8 billion The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 21st May 2008
was spent in 2007. at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary,
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The business to be transacted at
In July 2007, a programme totalling £12 billion of share repurchases
the meeting will include:
over two years commenced. The programme covers purchases by the
company of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, • Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline’s
in accordance with the authority renewed by shareholders at the 2007 Annual Report
company’s AGM in 2007.
• A pproving the 2007 Remuneration Report
In May 2007, the company was authorised to purchase a maximum The Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86 sets out the
of 575 million shares. Details of shares purchased, those held as remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures
Treasury shares and those cancelled are disclosed in Note 33 to the on Directors’ remuneration, including those required by the
financial statements ‘Share capital and share premium account’. Companies Act 2006 and the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002. A resolution will be proposed to approve the
The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent
Remuneration Report.
to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather
than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is
dependent on market conditions and other factors.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 65
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
• R etirement, election and re-election of Directors Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises
Mr Witty, Mr Viehbacher and Professor Sir Roy Anderson have been and risk activities are reviewed by the Group’s internal auditors.
appointed Directors since the 2007 AGM and will offer themselves Commercial and financial responsibility, however, is clearly delegated
for election to the Board. Sir Christopher Gent, Sir Ian Prosser and to local business units, supported by a regional management structure.
Dr Schmitz will each retire and offer themselves for re-election to These principles are designed to provide an environment of central
the Board under article 93 of the company’s Articles of Association. leadership coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework
Dr Garnier will also be retiring by rotation but will not be seeking for the exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
re-appointment as he will be retiring from the Board after the
The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and procedures
conclusion of the AGM.
designed to achieve appropriate accountability and control. A Group
• R e-appointment and remuneration of Auditors policy, ‘Risk Management and Legal Compliance’, mandates that
Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers business units establish processes for managing and monitoring risks
LLP as auditors and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine significant to their businesses and the Group.
their remuneration.
The internal control framework also relies on the following for
• S pecial business overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
The company will seek authority to:
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
• make donations to EU political organisations and incur EU The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board
political expenditure, each capped at £50,000 to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and
internal control activities of the Group. Membership comprises several
• allot Ordinary Shares in the company
CET members and some of the heads of departments with internal
• give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights when control, risk management, audit and compliance responsibilities.
allotting new Shares in connection with rights issues or otherwise
The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant
up to a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and
risks and their mitigation plans and provide oversight of internal
purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of just under
controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and
10% of the current issued share capital
internal GSK policies. The ROCC, responding to the Group policy
• adopt new Articles of Association to reflect the changes referred to above, has provided the business units with a framework
introduced by the new Companies Act 2006. for risk management and upward reporting of significant risks.
Mitigation planning and identification of a manager with overall
Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend
responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
the AGM, and to speak and vote on their behalf.
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs)
Details on how to appoint or be appointed a corporate representative
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) have been established
or proxy can be found on page 177. The Notice of AGM will be
in each of the major business units. Membership often comprises members
published on the company’s website.
of the senior executive team of the respective business unit, augmented
by specialists where appropriate. The RMCBs oversee management of
Internal control framework
all risks that are considered important for their respective business units,
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and including those risks that are designated as significant to GlaxoSmithKline
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. as a whole, thus increasing the number of risks that are actively managed
The structure of accountability and audit operated in GSK is as across the Group.
follows.
Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its significant risks
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the adequacy to the ROCC.
and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including
Compliance functions
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In a number of risk areas, specific standards that meet or exceed
The Board has delegated responsibility for such review to the Audit
requirements of applicable law have been established. Specialist audit
Committee, which receives reports from those individuals identified
and compliance functions (for example: Corporate Environment,
in the Committee’s Report on pages 67 to 69. It is the responsibility
Health & Safety, Global Quality Assurance and Worldwide Regulatory
of management, through the CET, to implement Board policies on
Compliance) assist in the dissemination, implementation and audit
risk and control. The CET is responsible for identifying, approving,
of these standards.
monitoring and enforcing key policies that go to the heart of how the
Group conducts business. The internal control framework includes Corporate Ethics & Compliance (CEC)
central direction, resource allocation and risk management of the key The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance
activities of research and development, manufacturing, marketing department which is responsible for supporting the development and
and sales, legal, human resources, information systems and financial implementation of practices that facilitate employees’ compliance
practice. As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning with laws and Group policy.
system with an annual budget approved by the Board. The results of
The thrust of the Group’s compliance effort is due diligence in
operating units are reported monthly and compared with the budget.
preventing and detecting misconduct or non-compliance with law or
Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with all laws
and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels and effective
compliance systems.
66 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance Officer, who The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET
reports directly to the CEO. The Corporate Compliance Officer chairs and senior managers covering the key compliance activities of the
the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCC’s activities and Group, including those concerning R&D, manufacturing, sales and
the Group’s significant risks to the CET and the Audit Committee on marketing and EHS.
a regular basis. The Corporate Compliance Officer’s direct reporting
Committee members, with the exception of Dr Podolsky, bring
line to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism for bypassing the
considerable financial and accounting experience to the Committee’s
executive management should the need ever arise.
work. Members have past employment experience in either finance
Areas of potentially significant risk or accounting roles or comparable experience in corporate activities.
For details of risks affecting the Group, see ‘Risk factors’ on pages 50 Dr Podolsky’s background as a world-renowned researcher enables
to 53 and Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. him to bring scientific expertise to the Committee’s deliberations.
Effectiveness of controls Mr de Swaan joined the Board and the Committee with effect from
The internal control framework has been in operation for the 1st January 2006. He succeeded Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the
whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to Committee with effect from September 2006. When appointing
the date of approval of this report. The system of internal controls Mr de Swaan to the Committee, the Board determined that he
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not had recent and relevant financial experience, in accordance with
achieving business objectives, and can only provide reasonable the Combined Code. In coming to this conclusion, the Board paid
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. particular attention to Mr de Swaan’s role as Chief Financial Officer
of ABN AMRO, from which he retired on 31st December 2005.
The Audit Committee receives reports on areas of significant
The Board also considers Mr de Swaan to be an Audit Committee
risk to the Group and on related internal controls. Following
Financial Expert, as defined by Sarbanes-Oxley.
consideration of these reports, the Audit Committee reports annually
to the Board on the effectiveness of controls. Such controls may Sir Deryck Maughan is a Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis
mitigate but cannot eliminate risks. In addition, there are areas of Roberts & Co (KKR) and Chairman of KKR Asia. He was Chairman
the Group’s business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve and CEO of Citigroup International and Vice Chairman of Citigroup
a satisfactory return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D Inc. Prior to the creation of Citigroup, he was Chairman and Co-Chief
and in acquiring new products or businesses. Executive Officer of Salomon Smith Barney. He was also Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Salomon Brothers Inc.
In these cases, it is the Group’s objective to apply its expertise in the
prudent management rather than elimination of risk. The Directors’ Sir Ian Prosser was CFO and later CEO of Bass plc and is a member of
review relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other investments. Dr Schmitz was the Chairman of the Committee from April 2001
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the until September 2006. Prior to his appointment as a Non-Executive
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates Director of the company, he was a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo
in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the Wellcome plc, where he served on the Audit Committee. Dr Schmitz
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year has also been a member of the Executive Board of Directors of
covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board. Deutsche Bank AG. He retired from the Board in 2000 having been
The process followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal in charge of investment banking. Dr Schmitz was formerly a member
controls accords with the guidance on internal control issued by the of the Executive Board of Directors of BASF from 1980 to 1990,
Turnbull Committee. including CFO from 1985 to 1990. He holds an MBA from Insead.
Sir Robert Wilson began his professional career as an economist. He is
Committee reports Chairman of BG Group plc. He held senior management positions at
Rio Tinto plc culminating in his appointment as Executive Chairman,
Audit Committee Report
from which he retired in 2003.
The Audit Committee’s role flows directly from the Board’s oversight
function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity Dr Podolsky was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1st
within its terms of reference. The Committee has written terms of January 2007. He is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced
reference which have been approved by the Board. The Committee knowledge of underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies
reports regularly to the Board on the performance of the activities for gastrointestinal disorders. He is Mallinkrodt Professor of Medicine
it has been assigned. The Committee’s main responsibilities include and Chief of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General Hospital
reviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting process, and Harvard Medical School as well as Chief Academic Officer
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, evaluating the of Partners HealthCare system. His background enables him to
system of internal control and the management of risks, overseeing bring scientific rather than financial or accounting expertise to the
activities of each of the Group’s compliance audit functions and Committee’s deliberations.
overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes
The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who attends
of practice. The Committee’s oversight role requires it to address
the Committee’s meetings and is also the Corporate Compliance
regularly the relationships between management and the internal
Officer. It has available to it financial resources to take independent
and external auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting
professional advice when considered necessary. Meetings of the
relationships and tiers of accountability between them.
Committee are attended by the Chairman, CEO, CFO, General Counsel,
Head of Global Internal Audit (GIA) and the external auditors.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 67
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
In 2007, the Committee worked to a structured programme of The external auditors and management report regularly to the
activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance
consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed. The
coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a case-by-
• the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical case basis. Expenditure on audit and non-audit services is set out in
accounting policies, significant judgements and practices used Note 9 to the financial statements, ‘Operating profit’.
by the company, alternative accounting treatments which had The guidelines set out in the company’s policy on engaging the
been discussed with management and the resultant conclusion external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining
by the external auditors, material written communications with that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a
management and any restrictions on access to information suitable supplier of the non-audit services; adequate safeguards are
• t he CFO reported on the financial performance of the company in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit are not
and on technical financial and accounting matters compromised; and the fee levels relative to the annual audit fee are
within the limits set by the Committee.
• t he General Counsel reported on material litigation
The company also has well-established policies, including a Code of
• the Company Secretary and the Corporate Compliance Officer
Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility for
reported on corporate governance and on the activities undertaken
the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct. No waivers to
by the ROCC
the Code were made in 2007.
• the Heads of each of the Group’s compliance and audit groups
reported on their audit scope, annual coverage, audit resources The Committee met in full session six times in 2007 and five times on
and on the results of audits conducted throughout the year a quorate basis. Each full session was attended by all members except
Sir Deryck Maughan, who was unable to attend one meeting.
• the Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee,
reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure Nominations Committee Report
of financial and other material information to the Board, to the The Nominations Committee’s terms of reference include responsibility
public markets and to shareholders. This enabled the Committee for proposing the appointment of Board and Committee members.
to review the clarity and completeness of the disclosures in the During 2007, the Committee’s main focus was on the selection of
published annual financial statements, interim reports, quarterly a new CEO to succeed Dr Garnier. Sir Robert Wilson, Mr de Swaan
and preliminary results announcements and other formal and Mr Culp attended the Committee’s meetings for the purpose
announcements relating to financial performance prior to their of considering Dr Garnier’s successor. In implementing its process
release by the Board. to select the new CEO, the Committee took external advice from
The Audit Committee, management, internal auditors and the an executive search company, which conducted a search to identify
full Board work together to ensure the quality of the company’s potential external candidates, in addition to the internal candidates
corporate accounting and financial reporting. The Committee already identified. A further executive search company was used to
serves as the primary link between the Board and the external and conduct a 360 degrees analysis of the candidates.
internal auditors. This facilitates the necessary independence from
The Chairman conducted interviews with a number of key individuals
management and encourages the external and internal auditors to
both within and outside the company to gain their perspectives on
communicate freely and regularly with the Committee. In 2007, the
the candidates. In addition, Dr Garnier provided the Committee with
Committee met both collectively and separately with the external
his analysis of the candidates.
auditors and the Head of GIA, and the Corporate Compliance Officer
without members of management being present. After considering the Chairman and CEO’s feedback, the external
advice and benchmarking, the Committee concluded by making a
The Committee has primary responsibility for making a
recommendation to the Board that Mr Witty should be appointed
recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, reappointment
the Company’s next CEO.
and removal of the external auditors by annually assessing the
qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external The Committee also made recommendations to the Board on the
auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process. appointment of Dr Burns as a Non-Executive Director, Professor
Sir Roy Anderson as a Non-Executive Director and Scientific/
In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which
Medical expert and the appointment of Mr Viehbacher as an
detail the relevant regulatory requirements relating to external auditors
Executive Director.
and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their compliance
with the requirements. Where the external auditors provide non-
audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and
independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval
by the Audit Committee for such services. These services may include
audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services.
Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or categories of
services, and is subject to a specific budget.
68 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
Following recommendations by the Committee, Dr Stephanie Burns The Committee members have been selected for the relevant
was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 2007 and expertise that they may contribute to the Committee’s activities. The
Professor Sir Roy Anderson in October 2007. Professor Sir Roy Anderson Committee members are Sir Christopher Gent (Chairman), Dr Burns,
has been appointed as one of the Board’s Scientific/Medical experts. Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Podolsky and Mr de Swaan. The Committee is
supported by the Company Secretary, who attends the Committee’s
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers
meetings. The CEO, General Counsel, Senior Vice President of
the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit
Corporate Communications and Community Partnerships and the
the Board most significantly for each appointment. Broad selection
Head of Corporate Responsibility also attend the meetings. The
criteria are used which focus on achieving a balance between
Chairman reports to the Board on the Committee’s activities.
the representation of European, UK and US markets, and having
individuals with CEO experience and skills developed in various During the year the Committee reviewed GSK’s activity in a number
sectors and specialities. During 2007, particular focus was placed of responsibility areas including access to medicines, community
upon recruiting a Non-Executive with scientific and medical expertise partnerships, reputation management, human rights in the supply
and a Non-Executive with CEO experience from the USA. Professional chain, efficiency of manufacturing processes, climate change, the
search agencies are engaged specialising in the recruitment of high risk management processes in R&D, transparency of clinical trial data,
calibre Non-Executive Directors. Dossiers of potential Non-Executive informed consent procedures for clinical trials, financial interactions
appointees are provided to the Committee and candidates are short- with health care professionals, animal research and testing, ethics
listed for interview after considering their relevant qualifications. and compliance initiatives, policy violations and discipline, use of
social media tools and employment practices.
A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new
Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience and The Committee met three times during 2007. Each meeting was
taking account of their different backgrounds. This process includes attended by all Committee members.
meeting members of the CET and other senior executives and visiting
GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Report can be accessed on
particular operational facilities of the Group.
the website.
When appointing new Executive Directors, and CET members, the
Committee considers the skills, knowledge and experience required The Combined Code
for the particular executive position. The Committee will consider
Throughout 2007, the company complied with the Code provisions
potential external and internal candidates before recommending
of the Combined Code, except as follows:
to the Board to approve the new appointment. All new Directors
offer themselves for election at the company’s next AGM. Their • B.1.1 – In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration,
appointments are announced publicly. the Remuneration Committee should follow the provisions in
Schedule A to the Code. Item 6 of Schedule A states that, in general,
At the end of 2006 the Committee recommended the appointment
only basic salary should be pensionable. The company’s position is
of Dr Podolsky to the Audit Committee and the appointment of Sir
explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86.
Christopher Gent to the Remuneration Committee both with effect
from 1st January 2007.
US law and regulation
The Committee also recommended the appointment of Dr Burns to
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK
the Corporate Responsibility Committee in December 2007.
because the company’s shares are quoted on the New York Stock
The Committee met three times during 2007. All members were Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADSs.
present at the full meetings, except Dr Schmitz who was unable to
NYSE rules
attend one meeting.
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK corporate
Remuneration Report governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, provided
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 71 to 86. that the company explains any significant variations. This explanation
is on the company’s website. NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report
require the company to file annual and interim written affirmations
The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
concerning the Audit Committee and the company’s statement on
are to review GSK’s policies and practices in anticipating and
significant differences in corporate governance.
managing external issues that have the potential to impact seriously
the Group’s business and reputation. The Committee has terms of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
reference, which have been approved by the Board and are published Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in
on the GSK’s website. the USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(Sarbanes-Oxley). Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide ranging piece
The Committee meets three times a year and has a rolling
of legislation concerned largely with financial reporting and
agenda that ensures that progress on meeting GSK’s Corporate
corporate governance.
Responsibility Principles is reviewed on an appropriate basis. Four
Principles – access to medicines, standards of ethical conduct, As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),
research and innovation and global community partnerships – are GSK has established a Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports
reviewed annually. Other Principles are discussed at least once every to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit Committee. It is chaired by
two years. The Committee also reviews and approves the annual the Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers
Corporate Responsibility Report. The Committee receives regular from finance, legal, compliance, corporate communications and
reports from the members of the CET and senior managers, which investor relations.
cover the key corporate responsibility areas for GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 69
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproCCorporate governance
continued
External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to attend
its meetings periodically. It has responsibility for considering the
materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the
disclosure of that information. It has responsibility for the timely filing
of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report
and Form 20-F. In 2007, the Committee met nine times.
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a statement
as to whether a member of the company’s Audit Committee is an
audit committee financial expert. For an explanation and details
of the basis for the Board’s judgement on this matter, refer to
page 67. Additional disclosure requirements arise under Section 302
and Section 404 in respect of disclosure controls and procedures, and
internal control over financial reporting.
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the
CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that:
• t hey have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F
• b ased on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements
or omissions
• based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the
dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and
Form 20-F
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is
made known to them, have evaluated the effectiveness of these
controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of such
evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
• they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the
company’s internal control over financial reporting
• they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors
and the Audit Committee, all significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely
the company’s ability to record, process, summarise and report
financial information and any fraud (regardless of materiality)
involving persons that have a significant role in the company’s
internal control over financial reporting.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision
and with the participation of the Group’s management, including
the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at
31st December 2007.
70 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
ecnanrevog
etaroproC
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the
controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure
controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance
of achieving their control objectives.
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications
and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure
controls and procedures on 29th February 2008, following which
the certificates will be filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s
Form 20-F.
Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal
control over financial reporting
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect
of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities
Exchange Act of 1934):
• Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the
Group. Internal control over financial reporting is designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with IFRS
• Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting based on the
framework in Internal Control – Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the
Treadway Commission
• There have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
financial reporting during 2007 that have materially affected,
or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal
control over financial reporting
• Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, as at 31st December 2007, and its
conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F
• PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the consolidated
financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st
December 2007, has also assessed the effectiveness of the
Group’s internal control over financial reporting under Auditing
Standard No. 5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the
Group’s Form 20-F.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 71
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policies operated
by GSK in respect of the Directors and Corporate Executive Team
(CET) members, together with disclosures on Directors’ remuneration
including those required by The Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 (the Regulations). In accordance with the
Regulations, the following sections of the Remuneration Report
are subject to audit: annual remuneration; Non-Executive Directors’
remuneration; share options; incentive plans; performance criteria
on the Performance Share Plan and share options; and pensions for
which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 160. The remaining
sections are not subject to audit nor are the pages referred to from
within the audited sections.
This Report is submitted to shareholders by the Board for approval at
the Annual General Meeting, as referenced in the Notice of Annual
General Meeting.
Throughout the Remuneration Report the Executive Directors and
CET members are referred to as the ‘Executives’.
References to GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs mean, respectively,
Ordinary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p and American
Depository Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Each ADS represents two
GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Introduction 72
Remuneration policy 72
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 77
Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 78
Directors and Senior Management remuneration 78
Annual remuneration 79
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 80
Directors’ interests 81
Share options 81
Incentive plans 83
Pensions 85
Directors and Senior Management 86
Directors’ interests in contracts 86Remuneration Report
Introduction Two quorate meetings were held during the year to approve the
formal grant of share options and performance share awards in
The Remuneration Committee (or Committee) is responsible
accordance with GSK remuneration policy.
for making recommendations to the Board on the company’s
remuneration policy and, within the terms of the agreed policy, With the exception of Mr Bicknell (Company Secretary), no employees
determining the total individual remuneration packages of of the company were involved in the conduct of Committee
the Executives. meetings. Dr Garnier (CEO) and Mr Phelan (Senior Vice President,
Human Resources), were invited to attend part of some meetings of
GlaxoSmithKline’s remuneration policy is designed to establish a
the Committee as required.
framework for remuneration that is consistent with the company’s
scale and scope of operations, meets the recruitment needs of the Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte) has been appointed by the Committee
business and is closely aligned with UK shareholder guidelines. to provide it with independent advice on executive remuneration.
As at 31st December 2007, the company was the second largest
Deloitte provided other consulting services to GSK during the year,
pharmaceutical company in the world by revenue, with operations
but did not provide advice on executive remuneration matters other
on five continents with products sold in over 140 countries and with
than to the Committee.
approximately 50% of sales being generated in the USA.
Towers Perrin provided market data and data analysis to
The appropriateness of GSK’s remuneration policy is kept under
the Committee.
review by the Remuneration Committee and, as part of this ongoing
commitment, the Committee has commenced a process to reassess
Remuneration policy
the remuneration policy to ensure that it continues to support the
future direction of the business. The company has announced Principles
the appointment of its new CEO, effective May 2008. A dialogue The remuneration policy for GSK is designed to secure
has begun, with the purpose of reviewing the alignment of the outstanding executive talent, and to provide pay for performance
remuneration structure with the new business priorities set by the and only for performance, within a transparent and robust
new CEO. This may lead to changes being considered over the coming governance structure.
year. The Chairman of the Committee continues to have regular
The Committee determined that GSK’s remuneration policy would
dialogue with institutional investors regarding GSK’s remuneration
be based on the following key principles:
policy and any material changes to the policy will be discussed with
major shareholders and disclosed in the 2008 Remuneration Report. • the remuneration structure must support the needs of the business
in a very competitive market place
The remainder of this report sets out GSK’s current
• U K shareholder guidelines will be followed to the maximum extent
remuneration policy.
consistent with the needs of the business and the company would
Remuneration Committee maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders
Sir Robert Wilson has been Chairman of the Committee since 17th • global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay
May 2004. Sir Crispin Davis, Mr Culp, Sir Christopher Gent and comparator group
Dr Schmitz were members of the Committee throughout 2007. The • performance conditions would be based on the measurable
Board deemed all of the members of the Committee to be independent delivery of strong financial performance and the delivery of
Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the Combined Code, with superior returns to shareholders as compared with other
the exception of the Chairman of the company, Sir Christopher Gent, pharmaceutical companies
who was independent on appointment to the company. • a high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity will be
based on performance-related remuneration which will be delivered
The Committee met four times during 2007 with each member
over the medium to long term
attending as follows:
• remuneration would be determined using the projected value
Number of meetings Number of meetings method (see ‘Benchmarking’ below)
held whilst a attended by
Name Committee member Committee member • t here would be one remuneration structure for Executive Directors
and the CET with the same performance conditions applying
Sir Robert Wilson 4 4
equally to their long-term incentive awards
Mr L Culp 4 4
• n o ex-gratia payments will be made
Sir Crispin Davis 4 4
• pay structures would be as simple as is consistent with the
Sir Christopher Gent 4 4
business needs.
Dr R Schmitz 4 4
Overall, the policy is intended to provide median total remuneration
At these meetings, amongst other items, the Committee considered
for median performance, with the opportunity to earn upper
the terms of service and remuneration levels for new Executive
quartile total remuneration for exceptional performance. Poor
appointments and the competitiveness of the company’s total
performance will result in total remuneration significantly below the
reward package, including the level of annual and long-term
pay comparator group median.
incentive opportunity.
This strong alignment with performance is demonstrably in
The policy aspects were discussed by the Chairman and the
the interests of shareholders and provides the Executives with
Chairman of the Committee at their annual meetings with
unambiguous signals about the importance of delivering success to
institutional investors.
the company’s shareholders.
72 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeRRemuneration Report
continued
Commitment For performance in line with expectations, total remuneration
The Committee will apply this policy in a consistent and transparent is targeted at the median of the pay comparator group and the
way. Any significant changes in the measures used to assess long-term incentive opportunity is set in a way which provides for
performance will be discussed with shareholders. In the use of positioning of total remuneration at the median of this group.
comparators for pay benchmarking, the Committee will use its
Valuation method
discretion to ensure that remuneration levels are reasonable,
The projected value method is used to benchmark total remuneration.
and if it believes that changes may cause concern amongst
This method projects the future value of the remuneration package
shareholders, the position will be discussed with shareholders prior
under different performance scenarios. This method, taken together
to implementation.
with an assessment of the pay comparator group’s incentive policies
Pay and performance comparators over several years, moderates the impact of market fluctuations in
The following table sets out the companies used for pay and the short term and strengthens the focus on performance.
performance comparison:
The Committee uses the projected value method for pay
Market
benchmarking purposes as it enables a comparison of packages with
Capitalisation
Company Country 31.12.07 different structural characteristics and provides an insight into the
£m value gearing of different equity instruments.
Abbott Laboratories USA 45,822
Individual elements of remuneration
Amgen USA 25,322
The balance between the fixed (base salary) and variable (annual
AstraZeneca UK 32,549
bonus and long-term incentive) elements of remuneration changes
Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 26,486
with performance. The chart below shows the anticipated normal
Eli Lilly USA 31,955
range of the mix between fixed and variable pay at different levels
GlaxoSmithKline UK 70,452
of performance for Mr Heslop and Dr Slaoui. In some years, the
Johnson & Johnson USA 96,264
ranges may be higher or lower, depending on the performance of the
Merck USA 63,509
company and the individual.
Novartis Switzerland 74,112
Pfizer USA 80,550
Roche Holdings Switzerland 63,543
Sanofi-Aventis France 65,724
Schering-Plough USA 21,854
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company* Japan 25,196
Wyeth USA 31,944
* only included for performance comparison.
Benchmarking
Base salary
For benchmarking purposes, total remuneration incorporates
Base salaries are set by reference to the median for the relevant
base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives. When
market. For Executives, this is the pharmaceutical pay comparator
setting pay, the Committee also has due regard to the Executives’
group. Actual salary levels are reviewed annually and are influenced
pension arrangements.
by an Executive’s experience, responsibility and market value. Any
The global pharmaceutical industry is used as the primary pay changes usually take effect from 1st April.
comparator for Executives, as it is the appropriate marketplace for
The table below sets out current base salaries and those that will take
the company’s most senior executive talent.
effect in April 2008.
In the first instance, pay is benchmarked to publicly available
Base salary from Percentage Base salary from
remuneration data for these companies. To provide additional 1st April 2007 increase 1st April 2008
context reference is also made to the Towers Perrin annual global
Dr JP Garnier* $1,834,000 – $1,834,000
pharmaceutical pay survey for the Pharmaceutical Human Resources
Mr J Heslop** £450,000 7.8% £485,000
Association (PHRA). To ensure that the global pharmaceutical industry
Dr M Slaoui** $725,000 13.8% $825,000
benchmark is subject to scrutiny and review, the Committee also
regularly considers pay data from other global businesses primarily * D r Garnier will retire from the Board on 21st May 2008.
in the consumer and the manufacturing sectors. ** T hese base salary increases reflect the Committee’s assessment of performance in their
respective roles since appointment.
Prior to determining the annual long-term incentive opportunity,
Mr Witty and Mr Viehbacher were both appointed to the Board
the Committee considers a range of payout levels that may be
with effect from 31st January 2008. Their salaries at that time were
achieved based on different assumptions, such as share price growth,
£550,000 and $800,000 respectively.
performance levels etc.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 73
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
5%-50% 10%-20% 30%-80%
100%
■ Base salary ■ Annual bonus ■ Long-term incentives74 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Remuneration Report
continued
Annual bonus The Committee considers that performance shares provide a stronger
All annual cash bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal alignment to shareholder interests, and therefore the remuneration
review of annual performance against stretching financial targets policy places greater emphasis on the use of performance shares.
based on profit before interest and tax and are subject to detailed LTI awards are determined such that for on-target performance
assessment of individual, business unit and Group achievements more than half of the LTI reward should be derived from
against objectives. No bonus is payable if financial performance performance shares.
is less than 96% of the target. The maximum annual cash bonus
The annual grant of LTI awards using more than one plan is consistent
that Executives can earn based solely on corporate performance is
with the practice of the pay comparator group and other leading UK
approximately two-thirds of the maximum bonus opportunity. The
companies. LTI awards for the CET are provided on the same basis
individual performance against objectives can increase or decrease as the Executive Directors. The level of the annual LTI opportunity is
the bonus level by a factor which can range from zero to 1.5. Bonuses
considered carefully year-on-year by the Committee in the context
are subject to upper limits which, for the Executives other than the
of market practice and GSK’s policy on market positioning. The
CEO, range between 100% and 200% of base salary. The CEO’s
performance period starts on 1st January of the year of award (i.e.
maximum bonus opportunity is 200%.
1st January 2008 for awards made in February 2008).
The aim of the remuneration policy is to deliver annual cash
Performance shares and share options are delivered to US resident
remuneration in line with the median of the pay comparator group
executives in the form of ADSs. Awards are delivered in the form of
for on-target business performance.
Ordinary Shares to executives resident in the UK and other countries.
In the case of the CEO, the bonus targets are set by the Board. In All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution limits
setting the objectives for the CEO, the Board takes into account the consistent with the guidelines provided by the Association of British
strategies that have been developed by the company, which are set Insurers, the National Association of Pension Funds and other
out on page 10 of the Annual Report. shareholder representative bodies. Current estimated dilution from
existing awards under all GSK employee share schemes made since
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the specific objectives set
the merger is approximately 6.4% of the company’s share capital at
against the strategic business drivers, as set out on page 10, are
31st December 2007.
kept confidential. Following the end of the financial year, the
Board reviews the CEO’s performance generally and against the set a) Performance shares
objectives, and the Committee then determines the bonus payable. For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting is based
For the other Executives, the CEO makes recommendations to on the company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to the
the Committee regarding the performance level achieved against performance comparator group (see page 73) over a three-year
objectives. These recommendations are then considered by the measurement period. TSR was chosen as the most appropriate
Committee to determine the resultant bonus. comparative measure since it focuses on the return to shareholders,
is a well-understood and tested mechanism to measure performance
The objectives set for 2007 focused in particular on the
and allows comparison between companies operating in
continued development and launch of late-stage pipeline assets,
different countries.
delivery of commercial plans and acceleration of operational
excellence programmes. TSR is measured in Sterling over the performance period and
represents the change in the value of a share together with the
Bonus measures for R&D employees, including Dr Slaoui, are linked
value of reinvested dividends paid. In order to remove the impact of
to the pipeline. A robust governance structure has been established
the varying tax treatments of dividends in different jurisdictions, all
to ensure that the bonus payable fairly reflects R&D productivity and
dividends are reinvested gross.
performance as well as profit targets. The Committee reviewed the
new arrangements following the first year of implementation and The table below sets out the performance share awards made in
agreed that it should continue as established. February 2008, for which full disclosure will be made in the 2008
Remuneration Report.
The Committee took into account the company’s success in achieving
Market price on
the above objectives, as well as individual Executives’ performance,
Executive Director Performance share award date of grant
when determining the bonus awards for 2007.
Dr JP Garnier* – –
Looking forward, in order to drive the necessary changes through the Mr A Witty 225,000 shares £11.47
business, the Committee may set additional targets with associated Mr J Heslop 105,000 shares £11.47
bonuses for the achievement of specific operational goals. Any Dr M Slaoui 69,000 ADSs $44.75
incremental bonus will be in the form of GSK shares deferred for a Mr C Viehbacher 42,500 ADSs $44.75
period and will not exceed 100% of salary.
* Dr Garnier will retire from the Board on 21st May 2008.
Long-term incentives
If GSK is ranked at the median of the performance comparator group,
Executives are eligible for annual long-term incentive (LTI) awards,
35% of the shares will vest. Any ranking below this point will result in
and the remuneration policy provides that these will normally be
no shares vesting. Only if GSK is one of the top two companies will all
made up of a performance share award and a share option award.
of the shares vest. When determining vesting levels, the Committee
has regard for the company’s underlying financial performance.Remuneration Report
continued
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 75
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
The graph below sets out the vesting schedule for the awards made When setting EPS targets the Committee considers, prior to each
to the Executives in 2008 based on a performance comparator grant, the company’s internal projections and analysts’ forecasts
group comprising 14 companies excluding GSK. Where GSK’s TSR for GSK’s EPS performance, as well as analysts’ forecasts for the
performance falls between two companies vesting increases on a pharmaceutical industry.
straight-line basis.
After extensive and careful consideration, the Committee agreed
that the annualised growth in EPS to achieve 100% vesting for the
share option awards granted in February 2008 would be RPI + 6%.
The following key principles govern the use of EPS as a
100%
performance measure:
• adjustments will only be considered for major items
• adjustments will be for the judgement of the Committee
• the purpose of the adjustments is to ensure that the performance
measurement is fair and reasonable to both participants
and shareholders
• any discretion exercised by the Committee will be disclosed to
shareholders in the Annual Report.
The Committee will set out the basis of its decision if it considers it
appropriate to make any significant adjustment.
The table below sets out the share option awards made in February
2008, for which full disclosure will be made in the 2008 Remuneration
Report.
To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments
to the Executives, notional dividends are reinvested and paid out Executive Director Share option award Option price
in proportion to the vesting of the award. The receipt of dividends
Dr JP Garnier* – –
has been incorporated into the benchmarking of award levels. In
Mr A Witty 525,000 shares £11.47
addition, performance shares earned by the Executives cannot be
Mr J Heslop 242,750 shares £11.47
sold, except to meet related tax liabilities, for a further two years
Dr M Slaoui 158,750 ADSs $44.75
following the end of the performance period.
Mr C Viehbacher 97,750 ADSs $44.75
The Performance Share Plan awards granted to the Executive Directors
* Dr Garnier will retire from the Board on 21st May 2008.
(excluding Dr Slaoui) in December 2004, with the performance period
starting on 1st January 2005 and ending on 31st December 2007 For share options granted to the Executives in 2008, vesting increases
vested in part (38.47%) because GSK’s relative TSR performance on a straight-line basis for EPS performance between the hurdles set
placed the company above the median of the comparator group. out in the following graph.
The awards made to other senior executives in 2004, including Dr
Slaoui, were dependent in part on TSR performance and in part on
EPS performance. The TSR portion vested in part and the EPS portion
vested in full.
The vesting tables for the performance share awards granted in 2004,
2006, 2007 and 2008 are given on page 84.
b) Share options
Share options allow a holder to buy shares at a future date at the
share price prevailing at the time of grant. Share options are granted
to more than 12,000 managers at GSK, including the Executives. The
vesting of the share options granted to the Executives is linked to the
achievement of compound annual EPS growth over the performance
period. EPS is measured at constant exchange rates (CER) as it is GSK’s
practice to measure performance on a CER basis.
The Committee considers that EPS is the key measure of the
performance of the business and is fully reflected through the
business measures extended throughout the Group, ensuring
organisational alignment.
egatnecrep
gnitseV
GSK TSR Ranking
Maximum
80%
60%
50%
Threshold
35%
0%
14th 8th 7th 6th 4th 2nd
Median
100%
RPI+3%
p.a.
egatnecrep
gnitseV
EPS Target
Exceptional
Superior
Baseline
Threshold
50%
0%
RPI+4% RPI+5% RPI+6%
p.a. p.a. p.a.Remuneration Report
continued
76 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK Share ownership requirements
shareholder guidelines and expectations and is demanding when To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders,
compared with those operated by other global pharmaceutical executives are required to build up significant holdings of shares in
companies. This is consistent with the policy of providing pay for GlaxoSmithKline and maintain these. These requirements are an
performance and only for performance. important part of aligning the interests of executives with shareholders.
The CEO is required to acquire shares to the value of four times base
Performance is measured over a period of three financial years. The
salary within three years of appointment. Other Executive Directors are
performance period starts in the year of award with the base year
required to build a shareholding to the value of three times base salary.
being the preceding financial year. There is no performance retesting,
Members of the CET are required to build a shareholding to a value of
so if the performance condition is not met after the three-year period
two times base salary. The other top 700 executives in the Group are the options will lapse.
required to build a shareholding to the value of one times base salary
The share options granted in 2004 vested in full. and are required to confirm this holding which is audited by KPMG on
an annual basis. Where individuals are recruited or promoted, the new
Pensions
shareholding requirement is expected to be met within three years.
The Executives participate in GlaxoSmithKline senior executive pension
plans. The pension arrangements are structured in accordance For shares to qualify for these share ownership requirements they
with the plans operated for executives in the country in which the must be held personally by the Executive or their spouse (except
executives are likely to retire. Details of individual arrangements for where the spouse is also employed by GSK and is also subject to these
the Executive Directors are set out on page 85. In response to the requirements) or minor children or have been earned but deferred
new pensions regime in the UK, the Committee carefully considered under one of the share programmes operated by the company.
the impact of the change in legislation and decided the following: Unexercised share options are not included in this calculation.
• the company will continue to fulfil its obligations under existing As at 31st December 2007, Dr Garnier’s holding was 514,369 ADSs,
pension arrangements Dr Slaoui’s was 20,699 ADSs and Mr Heslop’s was 41,529 ordinary
• no compensation will be provided if participants are adversely shares. Dr Garnier’s holding was in excess of the share ownership
affected by the new pension regime. requirements. Mr Heslop has until December 2008 and Dr Slaoui
has until December 2009 to build their holdings to the value of three
The GSK pension policy for executives in the UK is:
times base salary.
• n ewly employed executives benefit from a company contribution
Executives are required to continue to satisfy these shareholding
of 15% of base pay under the defined contribution plan
requirements for a minimum of twelve months following retirement
together with the opportunity to receive up to a further 4% in
from the company.
matched contributions
• l egacy final salary plans which provide for two-thirds of final salary Other remuneration elements
at age 60 were grandfathered for existing employees and no new The Executives participate in various legacy Glaxo Wellcome and
entrants have been allowed SmithKline Beecham all-employee share plans in either the UK or
• f or capped employees, benefits in excess of the cap are currently the USA and in the GlaxoSmithKline plans that replaced them.
all provided through unfunded arrangements
The Sharesave plan and the ShareReward plan are UK HM Revenue
• u nder the legacy final salary plans, actuarial reduction factors apply
and Customs approved plans open to all UK employees on the same
where a participant leaves employment of his own accord before
terms. Mr Witty and Mr Heslop are members of the Sharesave plan,
the age of 60, effectively spreading the value of the pension earned
into which they contribute £250 a month. This provides them with
over a longer life expectancy. If employment is terminated by the
the option to buy shares at the end of the three-year savings period
company (e.g. redundancy) the reduction factors will not apply.
in line with the opportunity available to all UK employees.
In the USA, GSK operates a US Cash Balance Plan which provides for
Mr Witty and Mr Heslop also contribute £125 per month to buy
an annual contribution and interest on the sum accumulated in the
shares under the ShareReward plan. The company matches the
cash balance plan but with no contractual promise to provide specific
number of shares bought each month.
levels of retirement income.
The Executives also receive other benefits including healthcare
With effect from 1st January 2006, the company introduced an
(medical and dental), personal financial advice and life assurance.
executive Pension Credit within the US Cash Balance Plan for senior
The cash value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in
US executives. Contribution rates under the plan range from 15% to
2007 is shown on page 79.
38% of base salary. All senior US executives are eligible for the new
executive Pension Credit, except for Dr Garnier, whose provisions On 19th February 2008, the company made a conditional award of
were grandfathered in light of his anticipated retirement in 2008. 111,750 ADSs to Mr Viehbacher. The award will vest in two tranches,
subject to his continued employment with GSK and the Committee’s
For capped employees in the USA, benefits above the cap are
assessment of his performance over the vesting period. 67,050 ADSs
provided by an unfunded non-qualified plan.
will vest on 31st December 2009 with the balance vesting on 31st
December 2011.
The number of ADSs will be adjusted to reflect dividends that would
have accrued in the period between award and vesting to the extent
that the ADSs vest.Remuneration Report
continued
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 77
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Executive Director terms, conditions and In addition, except on retirement, Dr Garnier is entitled to receive one
remuneration year’s worth of pension contributions on termination.
Executive Director contracts The terms of Dr Garnier’s retirement will be in accordance with his
The policy set out below provides the framework for contracts for contractual entitlements.
Executive Directors appointed since 2003.
The following table sets out the details of the Executive Directors’
service contracts:
Aspect Policy
Current Directors Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
Notice period on 12 calendar months
termination by the Dr JP Garnier* 03.03.04 01.01.04 31.05.08
employing company Mr A Witty 27.02.08 31.01.08 31.08.24
or executive Mr J Heslop 16.03.05 01.04.05 31.01.14
Dr M Slaoui 16.05.06 01.06.06 01.08.19
Termination payment – 1 x annual salary and
Mr C Viehbacher 27.02.08 31.01.08 01.04.20
1 x annual ‘on-target’ bonus1
* Dr Garnier will retire from the Board on 21st May 2008.
– No mitigation required2
No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of a
Vesting of long-term Rules of relevant equity incentive notice period extending beyond the contract expiry dates.
incentives plan3
Individual pension arrangements
Pension Based on existing arrangements and For individual pension arrangements for the Executive Directors refer
terms of the relevant pension plan to page 85.
Non-compete clause 12 months from termination Other entitlements
notice date2 In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the event
that Executive Directors’ service agreements are terminated by their
1 Dr Garnier’s target bonus is 100% of salary, Dr Slaoui’s is 85% of salary and Mr employing company, the following would apply:
Heslop’s is 75% of salary. When reviewing the level of severance payments, the
Committee considered investor and Department for Business Enterprise & Regulatory • in the case of outstanding awards under the GlaxoSmithKline Annual
Reform guidance. However, it determined that in line with competitive practice it is
Investment Plan, provided that their agreement is terminated other
appropriate to provide for the payment of salary and target bonus on termination.
than for cause, any deferred amount, and any income and gains,
2 The imposition of a 12-month non-compete period on the Executives is considered
are automatically distributed as soon as administratively practicable
vitally important by the company in order to protect the Group’s intellectual property.
In light of the non-compete clause and competitor practice, the Committee believes after termination. If they resign, retire or the termination is for
that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in the contracts. cause, then any deferred amount is not distributed until the end
of the minimum three-year deferral period
3 As approved by shareholders of GlaxoSmithKline, Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Beecham, as appropriate.
• i n line with the policy applicable to US senior executives, Dr Garnier
In 2003, Dr Garnier agreed to changes to his previous contractual is entitled to receive continuing medical and dental insurance. Dr
terms without compensation to come broadly in line with the new Slaoui and Mr Viehbacher are members of the same plan and may
contractual framework, including the reduction of contractual notice become eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing medical and
period from 24 to 12 calendar months. However, in order to honour dental cover into retirement
certain aspects of his previous contractual terms, there are a number
• following the merger, those participants in the legacy share
of individual features which were retained.
option schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for
The retained individual features include the entitlement to options over GlaxoSmithKline shares will receive an additional cash
reimbursement of excise tax on change of control related payments benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option. This
and life insurance benefit funded by the company to age 65. additional benefit is triggered when the new option is exercised or
lapses. To qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants had
In relation to LTI awards, these are subject to performance testing,
to retain their options until at least the second anniversary of the
and any share options or performance share awards granted within
effective date of the merger.
12 months of the termination notice date will lapse. However, on
termination by the company (other than for cause), on retirement or Outside appointments for Executive Directors
on resignation for ‘good reason’ (i.e. resignation due to not being Any outside appointments must be approved by the Chairman on
elected or retained as a director of the company or any merged behalf of the Board. It is the company’s policy that remuneration
company, or as a result of a change of control provided that such earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual
resignation occurs on or within 30 days of the first anniversary of Executive Director.
the change in control) share options remain exercisable for the full
option term.Remuneration Report
continued
78 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation if their
appointment is terminated.
Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service
contracts but instead have letters of appointment under which it is Chairman
agreed that they serve the company as a Non-Executive Director until Sir Christopher Gent’s letter of appointment to the Board was dated
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting following the third 26th May 2004, under which it was agreed that he serve the company
anniversary of their appointment. In each case this can be extended as Deputy Chairman until 31st December 2004 and from 1st January
for a further term of three years by mutual agreement. No Directors 2005 as Chairman until the conclusion of the Annual General
serve a term longer than three years without offering themselves Meeting following the third anniversary of his appointment. This may
for re-election by the shareholders. The company aims to provide be extended for a further term of three years by mutual agreement.
Non-Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with other From 2007, he receives £460,000 per annum plus an allocation of
companies of equivalent size and complexity. shares to the value of £115,000 per annum as Chairman.
The following table shows the date of the initial letter of appointment TSR performance graph
of each Non-Executive Director: The following graph sets out the performance of the company
relative to the FTSE 100 Index of which the company is a constituent
Non-Executive Date of letter and to the performance comparator group from 1st January 2003 to
Director of appointment
31st December 2007. The graph has been prepared in accordance
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 28.09.07
with the Regulations and is not an indication of the likely vesting of
Dr S Burns 12.02.07
awards granted under any of the company’s incentive plans.
Mr L Culp 09.06.03
Sir Crispin Davis 09.06.03
Sir Deryck Maughan 26.05.04 TSR Performance
Dr D Podolsky 03.07.06
200
Sir Ian Prosser 19.06.00
Dr R Schmitz 19.06.00
175
Mr T de Swaan 21.12.05
Sir Robert Wilson 09.06.03
150
The fee structure for the Non-Executive Directors is as follows:
Per annum 125
Standard annual cash retainer fee £60,000
Supplemental fees 100
Senior Independent Director, the Audit Committee
Chairman and Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000 75
Chairmen of the Remuneration and 31/12/02 31/12/03 31/12/04 31/12/05 31/12/06 31/12/07
Corporate Responsibility Committees £20,000 GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index
Non-Executive Director undertaking
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
intercontinental travel to meetings £5,000 per meeting
Exchange rate
Directors and Senior Management remuneration
Fees that are paid in US dollars are converted at a rate of
£1/US$1.8162, being the exchange rate that applied on 29th July The following tables set out for the Directors of GlaxoSmithKline
2004 when the fee arrangements were approved by the Board. plc the remuneration earned in 2007, their interests in shares of
Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan GlaxoSmithKline plc, their interests in share options and incentive
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders GlaxoSmithKline plans and their pension benefits. The members of the CET and
requires Non-Executive Directors to receive a significant part of their the Company Secretary, known as the Senior Management, also
fees in the form of shares. At least 25% of the Non-Executive Directors’ participate in the same remuneration plans as the Executive Directors
total fees, excluding the Chairman, are paid in the form of shares or and the aggregate remuneration and interests of the Directors and
ADSs and allocated to a share account. The Non-Executive Directors Senior Management are also provided.
may also take the opportunity to invest part or all of the balance of
their fees into the same share account.
The shares or ADSs which are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive
Directors and allocated to their interest accounts are included within
the Directors’ interests tables on page 81. The accumulated balance of
these shares or ADSs, together with notional dividends subsequently
reinvested, are not paid out to the Non-Executive Directors until
retirement. Upon retirement, the Non-Executive Directors will receive
either the shares or ADSs or a cash amount equal to the value of the
shares or ADSs at the date of retirement.Remuneration Report
continued
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 79
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Annual remuneration
2007 2006
Total Total
Fees and Other Annual annual Fees and Other Annual annual
salary benefits bonus remuneration salary benefits bonus remuneration
Footnote 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier a,b $1,810 $1,516 $2,709 $6,035 $1,700 $633 $3,080 $5,413
Dr M Slaoui $701 $321 $843 $1,865 $370 $317 $497 $1,184
Mr J Heslop £438 £16 £410 £864 £380 £31 £437 £848
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson e £23 – – £23 – – – –
Sir Crispin Davis £70 – – £70 £70 – – £70
Sir Christopher Gent £575 £1 – £576 £500 £1 – £501
Sir Ian Prosser £95 – – £95 £95 – – £95
Dr R Schmitz £70 – – £70 £90 – – £90
Mr T de Swaan £100 – – £100 £70 – – £70
Sir Robert Wilson £90 – – £90 £90 – – £90
Dr S Burns e $124 – – $124 – – – –
Mr L Culp $127 – – $127 $136 – – $136
Sir Deryck Maughan $136 – – $136 $136 – – $136
Dr D Podolsky $191 – – $191 $100 – – $100
Former Directors
Mr J Coombe a – £69 – £69 – £22 – £22
Dr M Barzach c £56 – – £56 £57 – – £57
Sir Richard Sykes – £1 – £1 – £1 – £1
Dr T Yamada a – $250 – $250 $428 $493 $281 $1,202
Dr L Shapiro d $85 – – $85 $144 $11 – $155
Total remuneration £3,104 £1,131 £2,186 £6,421 £2,982 £841 £2,523 £6,346
Analysed as:
Executive Directors £1,693 £935 £2,186 £4,814 £1,499 £545 £2,371 £4,415
Non-Executive Directors £1,312 £1 – £1,313 £1,116 £1 – £1,117
Former Directors £99 £195 – £294 £367 £295 £152 £814
Total remuneration £3,104 £1,131 £2,186 £6,421 £2,982 £841 £2,523 £6,346
Remuneration for Directors on the US payroll is reported in Dollars. Dollar amounts are included in the totals based on conversion to Sterling at the average exchange
rates for each year.
a) F ollowing the merger, and in order to encourage employees to convert their non-savings related options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham shares
or ADSs, for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, employees were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original
option. This additional benefit, known as the Exchange Offer Incentive (EOI), is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value. To
qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants had to retain these options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger. During the
year, Dr Garnier received $1,132,994 (2006 – $192,639), in EOI payments as a result of exercising options granted to him in March and November 1997, during
February and August 2007. These options would have expired in March and November 2007 had they not been exercised. Full details of these option exercises
are given on page 83. Dr Yamada received $184,516 (2006 – $60,204) and Mr Coombe received £67,200 (2006 – £nil).
b) D r Garnier is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation, in respect of which he received $230,000 in 2007 (2006 – $230,000) in the form of
deferred stock units which is not included above.
c) D r Barzach received fees of €81,933 (2006 – €84,244) from GlaxoSmithKline France for healthcare consultancy provided. These are included within fees and
salary above.
d) A lthough Dr Shapiro retired from the Board on 17th May 2006 she continues to be a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board for which, during
2007, she received fees of $85,000 (2006 – $85,000), of which $30,000 (2006 – $30,000) was in the form of ADSs. These are included within fees and salary
above.
e) D r Burns joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 12th February 2007 and Professor Sir Roy Anderson joined the Board on 1st October 2007. Therefore
no fees were paid to them in 2006.
None of the above Directors received reimbursement for expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.Remuneration Report
continued
80 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
2007 2006
Total Cash Shares/ADSs Total Cash Shares/ADSs
Fees 000 000 000 000 000 000
Current Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £23 £17 £6 – – –
Sir Crispin Davis £70 – £70 £70 – £70
Sir Christopher Gent £575 £460 £115 £500 £400 £100
Sir Ian Prosser £95 £48 £47 £95 £48 £47
Dr R Schmitz £70 £42 £28 £90 £54 £36
Mr T de Swaan £100 £75 £25 £70 £53 £17
Sir Robert Wilson £90 £68 £22 £90 £68 £22
Dr S Burns $124 $62 $62 – – –
Mr L Culp $127 – $127 $136 – $136
Sir Deryck Maughan $136 – $136 $136 – $136
Dr D Podolsky $191 $96 $95 $100 $50 $50
Former Non-Executive Directors
Dr L Shapiro – – – $59 $52 $7
Total Remuneration £1,312 £789 £523 £1,148 £678 £470
The table above sets out the remuneration received as Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline. It does not include Dr Shapiro’s fees
received as a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board.
From the formation of GSK, the Non-Executive Directors have been required to take at least a part of their total fees in the form of shares
allocated to a share account which is not paid out until retirement from the Board. At least 25% of Non-Executive Directors’ fees, except those
of the Chairman (see page 78 for further details), must be taken under the fee allocation arrangement. Non-Executive Directors can then elect
to receive either all or part of the remaining cash payment in the form of further shares or ADSs. The total value of these shares and ADSs as
at the date of award, together with the cash payment, forms their total fees, which are included within the Annual remuneration table under
‘Fees and salary’. The table above sets out the value of their fees received in the form of cash and shares and ADSs.
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares and ADSs held by the Non-Executive Directors in relation to their fees received
as Board members as at 31st December 2007, together with the movements in their accounts over the year.
Number of shares and ADSs
Dividends
Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements At 31.12.06 Elected reinvested At 31.12.07
Current Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Professor Sir Roy Anderson – 438 – 438
Sir Crispin Davis 18,057 5,283 729 24,069
Sir Christopher Gent 17,721 8,704 728 27,153
Sir Ian Prosser 20,465 3,586 810 24,861
Dr R Schmitz 16,862 2,113 664 19,639
Mr T de Swaan 1,233 1,888 35 3,156
Sir Robert Wilson 4,716 1,699 192 6,607
ADSs
Dr S Burns – 1,178 6 1,184
Mr L Culp 8,979 2,410 358 11,747
Sir Deryck Maughan 6,933 2,588 279 9,800
Dr D Podolsky 942 1,811 43 2,796Remuneration Report
continued
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 81
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Directors’ interests
The following interests of the Directors and connected persons of the company are shown in accordance with the Listing Rules.
Shares ADSs
22nd February 31st December 1st January 22nd February 31st December 1st January
Footnote 2008 2007 2007 2008 2007 2007
Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier a – – – 305,567 252,475 250,528
Mr A Witty b,e 71,392 – – – – –
Dr M Slaoui a 47,590 40,961 36,955 336 286 114
Mr J Heslop b 45,906 41,529 28,554 – – –
Mr C Viehbacher a,e 92,257 – – 11,788 – –
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson d,f 438 438 – – – –
Dr S Burns c,f 44 44 44 1,344 1,344 160
Mr L Culp f – – – 11,747 11,747 8,979
Sir Crispin Davis f 29,236 29,236 23,224 – – –
Sir Christopher Gent f 27,153 27,153 17,721 – – –
Sir Deryck Maughan f – – – 9,800 9,800 6,933
Dr D Podolsky f – – – 2,796 2,796 942
Sir Ian Prosser f 25,771 25,771 21,375 – – –
Dr R Schmitz f 25,319 25,319 22,542 – – –
Mr T de Swaan f 3,156 3,156 1,233 – – –
Sir Robert Wilson f 12,736 12,736 5,844 – – –
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares. The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 22nd February 2008 reflect the change between
the year-end and that date.
a) I ncludes ADSs purchased in the GlaxoSmithKline Stock Fund within the US Retirement Savings Plan and US Executive Supplemental Savings Plan.
b) I ncludes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan for Mr Heslop totalling 1,523 at 31st December 2007 (31st December 2006 – 1,250)
and 1,577 shares at 22nd February 2008. Mr Witty held 1,577 shares in this plan as at 22nd February 2008.
c) I n the case of Dr Burns, the opening number of shares is shown as at 12th February 2007, the date she joined the Board.
d) P rofessor Sir Roy Anderson joined the Board on 1st October 2007 and did not own any shares in GSK at that date.
e) Mr Witty and Mr Viehbacher joined the Board on 31st January 2008 and their holdings are disclosed above from this date. As at 22nd February 2008, Mr Witty
held options over a maximum of 1,524,244 shares granted under the company’s share option schemes and awards over a maximum of 396,727 shares under
the company’s incentive plans and Mr Viehbacher held options over a maximum of 778,367 shares and 461,750 ADSs granted under the company’s share option
schemes and awards over a maximum of 240,078 ADSs made under the company’s incentive plans. Mr Witty and Mr Viehbacher’s actual entitlement to GSK
shares under these plans will depend on the extent to which the performance conditions, set at the time of the grant or award, have been met at the end of the
respective performance periods.
f) I ncludes shares and ADSs received as part or all of their fees, as described under Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan on page 78. Dividends received on
these shares and ADSs were converted to shares and ADSs as at 31st December 2007.
Share options
Options – Shares Granted
Footnote At 31.12.06 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.07
Dr M Slaoui a 170,712 – – 170,712
Mr J Heslop b 542,504 20.02.07 20.02.10 – 19.02.17 £14.88 242,750 – 785,254
Options – ADSs Granted
At 31.12.06 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.07
Dr JP Garnier 4,197,183 20.02.07 20.02.10 – 19.02.17 $58.00 550,000 293,735 4,453,448
Dr M Slaoui a,b – 20.02.07 20.02.10 – 19.02.17 $58.00 162,320 – 162,320
a) T hese details include the interests of Dr Slaoui’s connected person who is also an employee of GSK.
b) A s part of the main option grant that occurred on 19th February 2008, with a vesting period of 19th February 2008 to 19th February 2011, Dr Slaoui was awarded
158,750 ADS options with a grant price of $44.75 and Mr Heslop was awarded 242,750 share options with a grant price of £11.47.82 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Remuneration Report
continued
For those options outstanding at 31st December 2007, the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for options above and below the market
price for a GlaxoSmithKline share at the year-end are given in the table below.
Nominal vesting date* Lapse date
Weighted average
Dr JP Garnier grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year-end: vested options $55.99 2,033,448 23.11.01 28.11.04 22.11.08 27.11.11
unvested options $54.68 1,050,000 21.02.09 20.02.10 20.02.16 19.02.17
Below market price at year-end: vested options $40.95 910,000 03.12.05 15.12.06 02.12.12 14.12.13
unvested options $43.73 460,000 02.12.07 02.12.07 01.12.14 01.12.14
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2007 $51.34 4,453,448
Nominal vesting date* Lapse date
Weighted average
Dr M Slaoui grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year-end: vested options £18.56 15,522 24.11.02 24.11.02 23.11.09 23.11.09
unvested options £14.68 73,340 21.02.09 21.02.09 20.02.16 20.02.16
Below market price at year-end: vested options £11.79 52,800 03.12.05 03.12.05 02.12.12 02.12.12
unvested options £11.23 29,050 02.12.07 02.12.07 01.12.14 01.12.14
Total share options as at 31st December 2007 £13.55 170,712
Above market price (“underwater”) at year-end: unvested options $58.00 162,320 20.02.10 20.02.10 19.02.17 19.02.17
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2007 $58.00 162,320
This includes those share options held by Dr Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.
Nominal vesting date* Lapse date
Weighted average
Mr J Heslop grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year-end: vested options £17.04 194,438 31.07.01 28.11.04 30.07.08 27.11.11
unvested options £14.78 473,750 21.02.09 20.02.10 20.02.16 19.02.17
Below market price at year-end: vested options £12.70 54,000 28.10.06 28.10.06 27.10.13 27.10.13
unvested options £11.23 63,066 03.12.07 27.10.08 02.12.14 26.10.15
Total share options as at 31st December 2007 £14.91 785,254
* Subsequent to the nominal vesting date, the Remuneration Committee meets to determine whether the required performance criteria have been satisfied.
GSK grants share options to Executive Directors and Senior Managers on an annual basis. The Directors hold these options under the various
share option plans referred to in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. None of the other Directors had an interest
in any option over the company’s shares.
The table below sets out, for grants of share options in respect of 2003 and 2004 grant years, the performance period, whether or not the
options have vested at 31st December 2007, and the performance targets.
Performance target
Vesting status Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Performance period at 31.12.07 in EPS under IFRS award vesting
December 2003 01.01.04 – 31.12.06 Vested > RPI + 5% 100%
December 2004 01.01.05 – 31.12.07 Unvested RPI + 4% 75%
RPI + 3% 50%
< RPI + 3% 0%Remuneration Report
continued
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 83
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
The table below sets out, for grants of share options in respect of 2006, 2007 and 2008 grant years, the performance period, whether or not
the options have vested at 31st December 2007, and the performance targets.
Performance target
Vesting status Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Performance period at 31.12.07 in EPS under IFRS award vesting
February 2006 01.01.06 – 31.12.08 Unvested > RPI + 6% 100%
February 2007 01.01.07 – 31.12.09 Unvested RPI + 5% 83%
February 2008 01.01.08 – 31.12.10 Unvested RPI + 4% 67%
RPI + 3% 50%
< RPI + 3% 0%
2007 2006
Grant Market
Options exercised Date Number price price Gain Gain
Dr JP Garnier 08.02.07 68,411 $32.09 $55.81 $1,622,709 $1,707,351
03.08.07 144,967 $40.54 $52.12 $1,678,718
06.08.07 80,357 $40.54 $52.00 $920,891
Mr J Heslop – – – – – £195,480
Aggregate gain on options exercised £2,111,159 £1,118,372
Dr Slaoui did not exercise any options during 2007 nor during the period from 17th May 2006 to 31st December 2006. Mr Heslop did not
exercise any options during 2007. An EOI benefit of $1,132,994 (£566,497) was paid to Dr Garnier on exercise of his options. This benefit
has been included in the table on page 79.
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31st December 2007 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £14.93 and £11.60,
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADSs during the year ended 31st December 2007 were $59.35 and $47.87,
respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2007 was £12.79 (31st December 2006 – £13.44) and for a
GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $50.39 (31st December 2006 – $52.69). The prices on 22nd February 2008 were £11.10 per GlaxoSmithKline
share and $44.08 per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
Incentive plans
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards
Market Additional
Dr JP Garnier – ADSs Vested & deferred
Number price on ADS by Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 31.12.06 2007 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.07 in 2008
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 219,392 – $44.57 – – – 219,392 – – –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 211,264 – $43.73 – – – – 7,681 218,945 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 223,186 – $51.02 – – – – 8,114 231,300 –
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 – 240,000 $58.00 – – – – 4,320 244,320 –
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 – – – – – – – – – –
Dr Garnier held 76,042 deferred performance shares at year-end, which are not included in the above table. The increase in this balance of
2,719 relates to dividends reinvested during the year.
Market Additional
Dr M Slaoui – Shares and ADSs Vested & exercised
Number price on shares by Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 31.12.06 2007 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.07 in 2008
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 5,000 – £12.70 2,500 £14.88 £37,200 2,500 – –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 13,760 – £11.63 – – – – 500 14,260
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 29,147 – £14.68 – – – – 1,061 30,208
Market Additional
Vested & exercised
Number price on ADS by Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 31.12.06 2007 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.07 in 2008
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 – 70,570 $58.00 – – – – 1,270 71,840 –
01.01.08 - 31.12.10 – – $44.75 – – – – – – 70,570
This includes those performance shares held by Dr Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.84 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Remuneration Report
continued
Incentive plans
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards
Market Additional
Mr J Heslop – Shares Vested & exercised Number price on shares by Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 31.12.06 2007 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.07 in 2008
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 5,000 – £12.70 2,500 £14.88 £37,200 2,500 – – –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 16,386 – £11.63 – – – – 596 16,982 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 101,487 – £14.68 – – – – 3,691 105,178 –
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 – 105,000 £14.88 – – – – 1,887 106,887 –
01.01.08 – 31.12.10 – – £11.47 – – – – – – 105,000
The PSP is a medium-term incentive scheme introduced during 2001. Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is
determined following the end of the relevant three-year measurement period and is dependent on GSK’s performance during that period as
described on pages 74 to 76. The performance share awards were previously granted annually in November or December prior to the start of
the performance period but, since the 2006 grant, they are granted in February of the first year of the performance period.
The measurement period commences on 1st January ending after three years on 31st December. For awards with a performance period
commencing on 1st January 2005 and subsequent awards, dividends are reinvested on the performance shares awarded to Executives,
throughout the performance period and up to the date of the final award. The dividend reinvestment is calculated as of the ex-dividend date.
Under the terms of the PSP, US participants may defer receipt of all or part of their vested awards. The total gain on vesting of PSP awards
made by Executive Directors is £74,400 (2006 – £1,285,677).
The PSP awards granted to Executive Directors (excluding Dr Slaoui) in December 2004, with the performance period starting on 1st January
2005 and ending on 31st December 2007 vested in part because of GSK’s relative TSR performance placed the company above the median
of the comparator group.
The awards made to other senior executives in 2004, including Dr Slaoui were dependent in part on TSR performance and in part on EPS
performance. The TSR portion vested in part and the EPS portion vested in full.
The following vesting schedules apply to awards made in 2004 and 2006.
Vesting schedule
Award Performance Period TSR rank with 13 companies Percentage of award vesting*
2004 01.01.05 – 31.12.07 1 100%
2006 01.01.06 – 31.12.08 2 100%
3 87%
4 74%
5 61%
6 48%
Median 35%
Below median 0%
The following vesting schedules apply to awards made in 2007 and 2008.
Vesting schedule
Award Performance Period TSR rank with 14 companies Percentage of award vesting*
2007 01.01.07 – 31.12.09 1 100%
2008 01.01.08 – 31.12.10 2 100%
3 90%
4 80%
5 70%
6 60%
7 50%
Median 35%
Below median 0%
* TSR is measured on a pro-rata basis. Where GlaxoSmithKline’s performance falls between two of the comparators, the level of vesting will be determined by the
actual relative level of TSR rather than simple ranking. Dividends will be treated as reinvested during the performance period.Remuneration Report
continued
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 85
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Share Value Plan awards
Dr M Slaoui – Shares and ADSs
Market
Vested & exercised
Number price on Number
Unvested granted in date of Market Unvested granted
Plan year at 31.12.06 2007 grant Number price Gain* Lapsed at 31.12.07 in 2008
2004 4,660 – £11.23 4,660 £12.84 £43,014 – – –
2006 1,200 – £14.68 – – – – 1,200 –
2007 (ADSs) – 890 $58.00 – – – – 890 –
2008 (ADSs) – – $44.75 – – – – – 890
* The gain disclosed relates only to Dr Slaoui and not to any person connected to him.
In his capacity as SVP, Worldwide Business Development, Dr Slaoui was eligible to participate in the Share Value Plan. Both Dr Slaoui and his
connected person, an employee of GSK, received awards under the Share Value Plan. Following the announcement of his appointment to
the Board in February 2006, he ceased to be eligible to receive awards under this plan. The awards are subject to three year vesting periods
and vesting is contingent on continued employment with GSK.
Vested and Additional ADS Vested and
deferred by dividends deferred
participations reinvested participations
Mid-Term Incentive Plan – ADSs at 31.12.06 in 2007 at 31.12.07
Dr JP Garnier 173,694 6,443 180,137
The Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) was a share award scheme operated by SmithKline Beecham. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further participations have been granted.
Where a final award of ADSs is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director. Dr Garnier deferred receipt of the full amounts
which vested in each year between 1999 and 2003. The deferred awards, together with any additional ADSs subsequently received through
dividend reinvestment, are not included in the Directors’ interests table on page 81 since they are retained in the MTIP until paid out.
Pensions
The accrued annual pension benefits and transfer values for Executive Directors in office on 31st December 2007 on retirement are set
out below.
The regulations require disclosure of the accrued benefit at the end of the year, the change in accrued benefit over the year, the transfer value
at both the beginning and end of the year and the change in the transfer value over the year. The Listing Rules require additional disclosure
of the change in the accrued benefit net of inflation and the transfer value of this change. Pensions for the Executive Directors have been
disclosed in the currency in which the pension is payable.
Change in
Change in Personal accrued Transfer value
Accrued Accrued accrued contributions Transfer Transfer Change benefit over of change
benefit at benefit at benefit made during value at value at in transfer year net in accrued
31.12.06 31.12.07 over year the year 31.12.06 31.12.07 value* of inflation benefit *
Executive Directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Dr JP Garnier $1,202 $1,235 $33 – $14,680 $16,239 $1,559 ($18) $1,559
Dr M Slaoui $26 $72 $46 – $131 $400 $269 $44 $269
€53 €53 – – €538 €571 €33 (€2) €33
Mr J Heslop £111 £142 £31 £13 £1,930 £2,609 £666 £27 £512
* These are shown net of contributions made by the individual.
Dr Garnier is a member of the All Employee US Cash Balance Pension Plan, under which GSK makes annual contributions calculated as a
percentage of the employee’s base salary and bonus. GSK makes annual contributions of 15% of Dr Garnier’s annual salary and bonus, as
detailed in his contract. The fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance based on the 30 year US treasury bond rate to provide
a cash sum at retirement. This cash sum is used to purchase a pension at retirement based on the annuity rates applicable at that time. The
plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases, other than by reducing the executive’s own initial pension.
The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Garnier’s plan has increased by $1,558,562 over the year as a result of further accumulation of interest
and contributions paid by the company. Dr Garnier will retire from the company on 31st May 2008.Remuneration Report
continued
86 I GSK Annual Report 2007
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
tropeR
noitarenumeR
Pensions Directors and Senior Management
With effect from 1st June 2006, Dr Slaoui became a member of Further information is also provided on compensation and interests
the US Executive Cash Balance Pension Plan, under which GSK of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the group’).
makes annual contributions calculated as a percentage of the For this purpose, the group is defined as the Executive and Non-
executive’s base salary. GSK makes annual contributions of 38% of Executive Directors, members of the CET and the Company
Dr Slaoui’s annual salary. The fund increases at an interest rate set Secretary. For the financial year 2007, the total compensation
annually in advance based on the 30 year US treasury bond rate to paid to members of the group for the periods during which they
provide a cash sum at retirement. This cash sum is used to purchase served in that capacity was £14,490,295, the aggregate increase
a pension at retirement based on the annuity rates applicable at in accrued pension benefits, net of inflation, was £183,422
that time. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or and the aggregate payment to defined contribution schemes
to pension increases, other than by reducing the executive’s own was £442,922. Also accrued during the year was an amount
initial pension. of £1,739,000 relating to compensation for loss of office and
£535,800 in respect of associated pension contributions.
The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Slaoui’s plan has increased
by $268,771 over the year as a result of further accumulation of During 2007, the members of the group were granted 933,930
interest and contributions paid by the company. share options and 1,333,820 ADS options under the Share Option
Scheme, 403,130 shares and 579,070 ADSs under the Performance
Dr Slaoui was an active participant in the Belgium Fortis Plan until
Share Plan and were awarded 2,520 shares and 890 ADSs under the
31st May 2006. This plan is a defined benefit plan with a lump
Share Value Plan. Members of the group were also awarded 33,624
sum payable at normal retirement age for the plan which is 60
shares and 49,333 ADSs through the reinvestment of dividends in
years of age. The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Slaoui’s plan
the Performance Share Plan.
has increased by €33,465 over the year as a result of the further
accumulation of interest. At 22nd February 2008, the group (comprising 27 persons) owned
716,727 shares and 463,427 ADSs, constituting less than 1% of
Mr Heslop participates in the Glaxo Wellcome Defined Benefit
the issued share capital of the company. The group also held, at
Plan with an accrual rate of 1/30th of final pensionable salary per
that date: options to purchase 7,759,454 shares and 7,667,846
annum. In 2000 all benefits accrued under the Glaxo Wellcome
ADSs; 1,393,001 shares and 1,531,017 ADSs awarded under the
UK pension arrangements were augmented by the Trustees of the
Performance Share Plan, including those shares and ADSs that are
plans by 5% to reflect a distribution of surplus. This augmentation
vested and deferred; 232,177 vested and deferred ADSs under
will apply to that element of Mr Heslop’s pension earnings before
the legacy SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan, and
31st March 2000.
19,260 shares and 3,260 ADSs awarded under the Share Value
Mr Heslop’s transfer value has been calculated on the basis of Plan. These holdings were issued under the various executive share
actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. option plans described in Note 42 to the financial statements,
The transfer value represents the present value of future payments ‘Employee share schemes’.
to be made under the pension plan. Mr Heslop’s annual accrued
benefit has increased by £31,351 (£27,358 excluding the effects Directors’ interests in contracts
of inflation), and the transfer value less personal contributions has
Except as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related
increased by £665,646 over the year. The increase in Mr Heslop’s
party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no
pensionable salary of £58,000 is the primary reason for the increase
Director or connected person had any material interest in any
in transfer value.
contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business with a
Dr Garnier and Dr Slaoui are also members of the US Retirement Group company.
Savings Plan, a 401k savings scheme open to all US employees and
the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan, a savings scheme open to
executives to accrue benefits above US government limits imposed The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the
on the Retirement Savings Plan. Contributions to both plans are Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
invested in a range of funds and the value of the accumulated
funds is paid at retirement. During 2007, contributions of $198,475
(£99,238) were paid into these two schemes by GSK in respect of Dr
Garnier. In respect of Dr Slaoui, contributions of $85,212 (£42,606)
Sir Christopher Gent
were paid into the scheme.
Chairman
27th February 2008GSK Annual Report 2007 I 87
stnemetats
laicnanif
financial statements
Directors’ statements of responsibility 88
independent auditors’ report 89
financial statements
Consolidated income statement 90
Consolidated balance sheet 91
Consolidated cash flow statement 92
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 93
notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements 94
2. Accounting policies 94
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates 98
4. New accounting requirements 99
5. Exchange rates 99
6. Segment information 100
7. Restructuring costs 104
8. Other operating income 104
9. Operating profit 105
10. Employee costs 106
11. Finance income 106
12. Finance costs 107
13. Associates and joint ventures 107
14. Taxation 108
15. Earnings per share 110
16. Dividends 110
17. Property, plant and equipment 111
18. Goodwill 112
19. Other intangible assets 113
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures 114
21. Other investments 115
22. Other non-current assets 115
23. Inventories 116
24. Trade and other receivables 116
25. Cash and cash equivalents 116
26. Assets held for sale 116
27. Trade and other payables 116
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits 117
29. Other provisions 123
30. Other non-current liabilities 124
31. Contingent liabilities 124
32. Net debt 125
33. Share capital and share premium account 127
34. Movements in equity 128
35. Related party transactions 130
36. Reconciliation of profit after tax to operating cash flows 130
37. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 130
38. Acquisitions and disposals 131
39. Commitments 136
40. Post balance sheet events 136
41. Financial instruments and related disclosures 137
42. Employee share schemes 144
43. Principal Group companies 149
44. Legal proceedings 152
financial statements of GlaxosmithKline plc,
prepared under UK GaaP 159Directors’ statements of responsibility
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation to Directors’ remuneration
the consolidated financial statements
The Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86 sets out the remuneration
The Directors are responsible for: policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on Directors’
remuneration and other disclosable information relating to Directors
• ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting records, which
and officers and their interests. It has been prepared in accordance
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group
with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006, and complies with Section
at any time and from which financial statements can be prepared to
B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
comply with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006, and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation
Going concern basis
• preparing financial statements for each financial period which
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in
use in the European Union, of the state of affairs of the Group
operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss for
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
that period
financial statements.
• ensuring the operation of systems of internal control and for taking
reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and for internal control
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
requirements in preparing the financial statements. in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2007,
covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out
Board of Directors.
in ‘Financial statements’ on pages 90 to 158 of this report.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been the combined code
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements,
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates
of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial
as necessary.
Reporting Council, as described under ‘Corporate governance’ on
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial pages 59 to 70, and has complied with its provisions except as
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report (page described on page 69.
89 opposite).
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2007 the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance
are included in the Annual Report 2007, which is published in hard- in relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified
copy printed form and made available on the website. The Directors for their review.
are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual
Report on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing annual Report
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access
The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2007,
to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report,
legislation may be different.
the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has
been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors, in office at the date of this Report, have each
confirmed that:
• s o far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of
which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
• each Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have
taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant sir christopher Gent
audit information and to establish that the company’s auditors are Chairman
aware of that information. 27th February 2008
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
with the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
88 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
ytilibisnopser
fo
stnemetats
’srotceriDindependent auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline Basis of audit opinion
for the year ended 31st December 2007 which comprise the primary
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
financial statements, the consolidated Income Statement, the
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
consolidated Balance Sheet, the consolidated Cash Flow Statement,
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to
the consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense
the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It also
and the related notes. These Group financial statements have been
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements,
We have reported separately on the parent company financial and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s
statements of GlaxoSmithKline for the year ended 31st December circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
2007 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
that is described as having been audited.
information and explanations which we considered necessary
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
Respective responsibilities of directors and
assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material
auditors
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted
by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ Opinion
Responsibilities (page 88 opposite).
In our opinion:
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in
• t he Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
state of the Group’s affairs as at 31st December 2007 and of its
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the company’s
profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies
Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving this opinion, • t he Group financial statements have been properly prepared in
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Regulation; and
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
• t he information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial with the Group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the separate opinion in relation to ifRss
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also report
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group
to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with the
the Directors is consistent with the Group financial statements.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair
information specified by law regarding director’s remuneration and
view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Group’s affairs as
other transactions is not disclosed.
at 31st December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects then ended.
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined
Code (2006) specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are
not required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
effectiveness of the Group’s corporate governance procedures or its London
risk and control procedures. 27th February 2008
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider
whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements. Notes:
The other information comprises only the Financial summary, the Joint a) The maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline website is the
statement by the Chairman and Chief Executive, Financial trends and responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept
ratios, Business review and the Corporate governance statement.
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware statements since they were initially presented on the website.
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any of financial information may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
other information.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 89
stnemetats
laicnanif
troper
’srotiduA
tnednepednI90 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
tnemetats
emocni
detadilosnoC
consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31st December 2007
2007 2006 2005
Business Restructuring
Notes performance costs total
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 6 22,716 – 22,716 23,225 21,660
Cost of sales (5,206) (111) (5,317) (5,010) (4,764)
Gross profit 17,510 (111) 17,399 18,215 16,896
Selling, general and administration (6,817) (137) (6,954) (7,257) (7,250)
Research and development (3,237) (90) (3,327) (3,457) (3,136)
Other operating income 8 475 – 475 307 364
Operating profit 9,10 7,931 (338) 7,593 7,808 6,874
Finance income 11 262 – 262 287 257
Finance costs 12 (453) – (453) (352) (451)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 50 – 50 56 52
Profit before taxation 7,790 (338) 7,452 7,799 6,732
Taxation 14 (2,219) 77 (2,142) (2,301) (1,916)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,571 (261) 5,310 5,498 4,816
Profit attributable to minority interests 96 – 96 109 127
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,475 (261) 5,214 5,389 4,689
5,571 (261) 5,310 5,498 4,816
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 94.4p 95.5p 82.6p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 93.7p 94.5p 82.0p
The calculation of business performance, a supplemental non-IFRS measure, is described in Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.consolidated balance sheet
at 31st December 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 7,821 6,930
Goodwill 18 1,370 758
Other intangible assets 19 4,456 3,293
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 329 295
Other investments 21 517 441
Deferred tax assets 14 2,196 2,123
Derivative financial instruments 41 1 113
Other non-current assets 22 687 608
Total non-current assets 17,377 14,561
current assets
Inventories 23 3,062 2,437
Current tax recoverable 14 58 186
Trade and other receivables 24 5,495 5,237
Derivative financial instruments 41 475 80
Liquid investments 32 1,153 1,035
Cash and cash equivalents 25 3,379 2,005
Assets held for sale 26 4 12
Total current assets 13,626 10,992
Total assets 31,003 25,553
current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 32 (3,504) (718)
Trade and other payables 27 (4,861) (4,831)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (262) (40)
Current tax payable 14 (826) (621)
Short-term provisions 29 (892) (1,055)
Total current liabilities (10,345) (7,265)
non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 32 (7,067) (4,772)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (887) (595)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (1,383) (2,339)
Other provisions 29 (1,035) (528)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (8) (60)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (368) (346)
Total non-current liabilities (10,748) (8,640)
Total liabilities (21,093) (15,905)
Net assets 9,910 9,648
equity
Share capital 33 1,503 1,498
Share premium account 33 1,266 858
Retained earnings 34 6,475 6,965
Other reserves 34 359 65
Shareholders’ equity 9,603 9,386
Minority interests 34 307 262
Total equity 9,910 9,648
Approved by the Board on 27th February 2008
sir christopher Gent
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 91
stnemetats
laicnanif
teehs
ecnalab
detadilosnoC92 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
tnemetats
wofl
hsac
detadilosnoC
consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31st December 2007
2007 2006 2005
Notes £m £m £m
cash flow from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 36 8,080 8,203 7,665
Taxation paid (1,919) (3,846) (1,707)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,161 4,357 5,958
cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,516) (1,366) (903)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 35 43 54
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 9 175 221
Purchase of intangible assets (627) (224) (278)
Purchase of equity investments (186) (57) (23)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 45 32 35
Share transactions with minority shareholders 38 – (157) (36)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 (1,027) (273) (1,026)
Disposal of businesses and interest in associates 38 – 5 (2)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 38 (1) (13) (2)
Interest received 247 299 290
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 12 15 10
Net cash outflow from investing activities (3,009) (1,521) (1,660)
cash flow from financing activities
(Increase)/decrease in liquid investments (39) (55) 550
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 116 151 68
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (26) – –
Issue of share capital 33 417 316 252
Purchase of own shares for cancellation (213) – –
Purchase of Treasury shares (3,538) (1,348) (999)
Increase in long-term loans 3,483 – 982
Repayment of long-term loans (207) – (70)
Net increase in/(repayment of) short-term loans 1,632 (739) (857)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (39) (34) (36)
Interest paid (378) (414) (381)
Dividends paid to shareholders (2,793) (2,598) (2,390)
Dividends paid to minority interests (77) (87) (86)
Other financing cash flows (79) 16 53
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,741) (4,792) (2,914)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 37 1,411 (1,956) 1,384
Exchange adjustments 48 (254) 233
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 1,762 3,972 2,355
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,221 1,762 3,972
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 2,005 4,209
Overdrafts (158) (243) (237)
3,221 1,762 3,972consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31st December 2007
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 425 (390) 203
Tax on exchange movements 21 (78) 99
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (99) 84 (1)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 19 (15) (10)
Exchange movements on goodwill in reserves (14) 31 9
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 671 429 (794)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans (195) (161) 257
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (6) (5) (4)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 2 2 1
Net profits/(losses) recognised directly in equity 824 (103) (240)
Profit for the year 5,310 5,498 4,816
Total recognised income and expense for the year 6,134 5,395 4,576
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 6,012 5,307 4,423
Minority interests 122 88 153
6,134 5,395 4,576
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 93
stnemetats
laicnanif
esnepxe
dna
emocni
desingocer
fo
tnemetats
detadilosnoC94 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial statements Accounting principles and policies
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
Description of business
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is engaged
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture and
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, over-the-
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer products.
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include medicines in the
could differ from those estimates.
following therapeutic areas: respiratory, central nervous system,
anti-virals, anti-bacterials, metabolic, vaccines, cardiovascular and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the
urogenital, anti-bacterial, oncology and emesis. Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board and described in
Note 2, ‘Accounting policies’. Information on the application of these
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
accounting policies, including areas of estimation and judgement is
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
given in Note 3, ‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’. During
the Companies Act 1985, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
2007 the Group has implemented IFRS 7 ‘Financial instruments:
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial
disclosures’, which amends and adds to previous disclosures relating
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, as adopted
to financial instruments.
by the European Union.
Parent company financial statements
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued
The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline
by the International Accounting Standards Board.
plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
Composition of financial statements accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, the on page 161.
functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance with
IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements comprise: 2 accounting policies
• Consolidated income statement Consolidation
• Consolidated balance sheet The consolidated financial statements include:
• Consolidated cash flow statement
• t he assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the
• Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
• Notes to the financial statements.
• t he Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates and
Accounting convention joint ventures.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to 31st
convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain items, as stated
December each year.
in the accounting policies.
Entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial
Financial period
and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries. Where
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1st January to
the Group has the ability to exercise joint control, the entities are
31st December 2007, with comparative figures for the financial years
accounted for as joint ventures, and where the Group has the ability
from 1st January to 31st December 2006 and, where appropriate,
to exercise significant influence, they are accounted for as associates.
from 1st January to 31st December 2005.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures
Composition of the Group are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using the
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the opinion equity method of accounting.
of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or the net
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
assets of the Group is given in Note 43, ‘Principal Group companies’.
Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated from
Presentation of business performance the date control ceases.
A columnar presentation has been adopted in the income
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated; no
statement in order to illustrate underlying business performance.
profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries or on sales to
Business performance, which is a supplemental non-IFRS measure,
joint ventures and associates until the products are sold to customers
is the primary performance measure used by management and is
outside the Group. Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit
presented after excluding costs relating to the new Operational
is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
Excellence programme, which commenced in October 2007, and
significant acquisitions. Management believes that exclusion of these Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interests in subsidiaries, joint
items provides a better reflection of the way in which the business ventures and associates, representing the excess of the acquisition
is managed and gives a more useful indication of the underlying cost over the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable
performance of the Group. This information, which is provided in assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised as a
addition to the total results prepared under IFRS, is given to assist separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as part of the cost of
shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying investment in the case of joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is
performance of the business and to increase comparability for the denominated in the currency of the operation acquired. Where the
periods presented. cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets acquired,
the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.notes to the financial statements
continued
2 accounting policies continued Research and development
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
Foreign currency translation
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are
market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling
and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in
at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are included in the
accordance with the Group’s policy.
income statement.
Environmental expenditure
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, of
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated into
from past or current operations and from which no current or future
Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The
benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. The Group
results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably
ventures are translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange.
estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total costs
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the
and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’ costs when
profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and
it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective
joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences
shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of reimbursements are
arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the
recorded as assets when virtually certain.
Group’s net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate
component of equity. Legal and other disputes
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash
other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources
flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are
is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made
reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, adjustments
of the likely outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or
are made to reflect current price levels. Any loss on net monetary
other expenses arising from claims received or other disputes. In
assets is charged to the consolidated income statement.
respect of product liability claims related to products where there
Revenue is sufficient history of claims made and settlements, an “incurred
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or but not reported” (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine a
services are supplied or made available to external customers against reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure to unasserted claims for
orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the customer, and those products and a provision is made on that basis.
reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions. Turnover
No provision is made for other unasserted claims or where an
represents net invoice value after the deduction of discounts and
obligation exists under a dispute but it is not possible to make a
allowances given and accruals for estimated future rebates and
reasonable estimate. Costs associated with claims made by the
returns. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates
Group against third parties are charged to the income statement as
and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of
they are incurred.
contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience
and projected market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated Pensions and other post-employment benefits
using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes
data and internally generated information. Turnover also includes co- are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread
promotion income where the Group records its share of the revenue over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from
but no related cost of sales. Value added tax and other sales taxes the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of qualified
are excluded from revenue. actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the present value of
estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields
Expenditure
of high quality corporate bonds.
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet
is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect date. Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the expected
of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be and actual returns of assets and the effect of changes in actuarial
reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between validation assumptions, are recognised in the statement of recognised income
and the achievement of normal production are expensed as and expense in the year in which they arise. The Group’s contributions
incurred. Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement
income statement as incurred. Shipment costs on intercompany as incurred.
transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in
to customers are included in selling, general and administrative
a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread
expenditure. Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for,
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived
where appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
qualified actuaries.
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected
has been undertaken.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 95
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoNnotes to the financial statements
continued
2 accounting policies continued Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed to
Employee share plans
have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
share option and share award schemes. Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
paid, this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the
grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and charged
income statement.
to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
Other intangible assets
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation
shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares
and impairments.
when employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running
the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer is acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are amortised
made between other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line basis, from
periods of the related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate the time they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for
proceeds receivable from employees on exercise. determining the amortisation charge take into account patent
lives, where applicable, as well as the value obtained from periods
Property, plant and equipment
of non-exclusivity. Asset lives are reviewed, and where appropriate
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of purchase
adjusted, annually. Any development costs incurred by the Group and
or construction less provisions for depreciation and impairment.
associated with acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing
Financing costs are not capitalised.
rights are written off to the income statement when incurred, unless
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value the criteria for recognition of an internally generated intangible asset
of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed, and market and approval is considered highly probable.
where appropriate adjusted, annually. The normal expected useful
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a
value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands can Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
be sold separately from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands
Leasehold land and Lease term or 20 to 50 years
are amortised over their estimated useful lives, except where it is
buildings
considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal
use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation
fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant business
and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the
system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset.
net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
ERP systems software is amortised over seven years and other
Leases computer software over three to five years.
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the
Impairment of non-current assets
benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for
leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The assets are
impairment when there is an indication that the assets might be
included in PP&E or computer software and the capital elements of
impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite
the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use
leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis
are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for impairment is
consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income
statement. All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs Investments in associates and joint ventures
are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
the lease term. consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net assets
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits or
losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
96 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoNnotes to the financial statements
continued
2 accounting policies continued Taxation
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
Available-for-sale investments
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as available-
balance sheet date.
for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus
transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on available-for- temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
sale investments are recognised directly in equity. Impairments liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair value of an Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that
investment reduce the carrying amount of the asset directly and are future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary
charged to the income statement. On disposal or impairment of differences can be utilised.
the investments, any gains and losses that have been deferred in
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on
equity are recycled into the income statement. Dividends on equity
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except
investments are recognised in the income statement when the
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be
Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity investments
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be
reverse in the foreseeable future.
sold within one year.
Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been enacted
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax
the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale
liabilities and assets are not discounted.
investments are accounted for on settlement date.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
Inventories
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of
to market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative
cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and
instruments used by GlaxoSmithKline are foreign currency swaps,
related production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is
interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. The
generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch inventory
Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
is held as an asset when there is a high probability of regulatory
trading or speculative purposes.
approval for the product. Before that point a provision is made
against the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the provision Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading and
is then reversed at the point when a high probability of regulatory are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives designated as
approval is determined. hedging instruments are classified on inception as cash flow hedges,
net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is hedges are recognised in equity, to the extent that the hedges
evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, are effective. Ineffective portions are recognised in profit or loss
previous experience and general economic conditions. When a immediately. Amounts deferred in equity are recycled to the income
trade receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
off, firstly against any provision available and then to the income
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash
statement. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided
flow hedges.
for are credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
discounted where the effect is material. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
Trade payables
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Trade payables are held at amortised cost which equates to
nominal value. Long-term payables are discounted where the effect Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not
is material. qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the
income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances Discounting
with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments Where the time effect of money is material, balances are discounted
with original maturities of three months or less. They are readily to current values using appropriate rates of interest. The unwinding
convertible into known amounts of cash and have an insignificant of the discounts is recorded in finance income/costs.
risk of changes in value.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 97
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN98 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
3 Key accounting judgements and estimates The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have established
provisions after taking into account the relevant facts and
In preparing the financial statements, management is required to
circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets,
requirements. Provisions for product liability claims on certain
liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements.
products have been made on an ‘incurred but not reported’ basis
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates. The
where sufficient history of claims made and settlements is available.
following are considered to be the key accounting judgements and
estimates made. No provisions have been made for other unasserted claims or for
claims for which no reasonable estimate of the likely outcome can
Turnover
yet be made. The ultimate liability for pending and unasserted claims
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the
may vary from the amounts provided, if any, and is dependent upon
customer and reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions.
the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and
settlement negotiations.
product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by
product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements Property, plant and equipment
with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed
of claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale. Accruals for impairment when there is an indication that the values of the
are made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts assets might be impaired. Impairment is determined by reference to
or allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use, measured by
market information and historical experience. Because the amounts assessing risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome, and the interest rates. These future cash flows are based on business forecasts
amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other and are therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause
things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of the assumptions used in these impairment reviews to change with a
accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected
Intangible assets
market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using wholesaler
Where intangible assets are acquired by GSK from third parties
and other third-party analyses, market research data and internally
the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to compounds
generated information. Future events could cause the assumptions
in development are amortised from the point at which they are
on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the
available for use, over their estimated useful lives, which may
future results of the Group.
include periods of non-exclusivity. Estimated useful lives are reviewed
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the third party records annually and impairment tests are undertaken if events occur which
the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-promotion call into question the carrying values of the assets. Brands acquired
income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion activities is such with businesses are capitalised independently where they are
that the Group records no costs of sales. Pharmaceutical turnover separable and have an expected life of more than one year. Brands
includes co-promotion revenue of £274 million (2006 – £182 million, are amortised over their estimated useful lives, not exceeding 20
2005 – £112 million). years, except where the end of the useful economic life cannot
be foreseen. Where brands are not amortised, they are subject to
Taxation
annual impairment tests. Impairment tests are based on risk-adjusted
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and
future cash flows discounted using appropriate interest rates. These
deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the
future cash flows are based on business forecasts and are therefore
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at
inherently judgemental. Future events could cause the values of these
the rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
intangible assets to be impaired and this would have an adverse
balance sheet date.
effect on the future results of the Group.
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment benefits
methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues to
are charged to the income statement in accordance with IAS 19
a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional
over the period during which benefit is derived from the employee’s
advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for
services. The costs are assessed in accordance with advice received
the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. Where open issues
from independent actuaries on the basis of assumptions selected
exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
by management. These assumptions include future earnings and
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with
pension increases, discount rates and expected long term rates of
the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
return on assets and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other
Legal and other disputes post-employment benefits’. The expected long term rates of return
GSK provides for anticipated settlement costs where a reasonable on bonds are determined based on the portfolio mix of index-linked,
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal government and corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added
and other expenses arising from claims against the Group. to this for equities.notes to the financial statements
continued
3 Key accounting judgements and estimates continued IFRS 3 (Revised) ‘Business combinations’ was issued in January 2008
and will apply to business combinations arising from 1st January
Discount rates are based on appropriate long-term indices, including
2010. Amongst other changes, the new Standard will require
the iBoxx over 15 year AA index for the UK, and Moody’s Aa index
recognition of subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent
for the USA. Sensitivity analysis is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions
consideration in the income statement rather than against goodwill,
and other post-employment benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction
and transaction costs to be recognised immediately in the income
in the discount rate would lead to an increase in the net pension
statement. Fair value gains or losses on existing investments in an
deficit of approximately £374 million and an increase in the annual
acquired company will be recognised in the income statement at
pension cost of approximately £8 million. The selection of different
the date of acquisition.
assumptions could affect the future results of the Group.
IAS 27 (Revised) ‘Consolidated and separate financial statements’
4 new accounting requirements was issued in January 2008 and will be implemented at the same
time as IFRS 3 (Revised). In respect of transactions with non-
The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretations have been issued by the
controlling interests in Group entities that do not result in a change
IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports, although none is
of control, the revised Standard requires that the difference between
expected to have a material impact on the results or financial position
the consideration paid or received and the recorded non-controlling
of the Group.
interest is recognised in equity. In the case of divestment of a
IFRIC11 ‘IFRS 2 – Group and treasury share transactions’ was issued subsidiary, any retained interest will be remeasured to fair value and
in November 2006 and is required to be implemented by GSK the difference between fair value and the previous carrying value will
from 1st January 2008. This interpretation provides guidance on be recognised immediately in the income statement.
whether share-based transactions involving group entities should be
IFRS 3 (Revised) and IAS 27 (Revised) will both be applied prospectively
accounted for as equity settled or cash settled transactions.
to transactions occurring after the implementation date. It is therefore
IFRIC 14 ‘IAS 19 – The limit on a defined benefit asset, minimum not possible to assess in advance their impact on the financial
funding requirements and their interaction’ was issued in July 2007 statements of the Group.
and will be effective from 1st January 2008. The Interpretation
5 exchange rates
provides general guidance on the amount of a pension surplus that
may be recognised as an asset. The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the
period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries,
IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ was issued in November 2006 and
joint ventures and associated undertakings into Sterling and period
is required to be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2009.
end rates to translate the net assets of those undertakings. The
This standard replaces IAS 14 and aligns the segmental reporting
currencies which most influence these translations and the relevant
requirements with those of the equivalent US standard. The new
exchange rates were:
standard adopts a ‘management approach’ under which segmental
2007 2006 2005
information is to be disclosed on the same basis as that used for
internal reporting purposes. Average rates:
£/US$ 2.00 1.85 1.82
IAS 23 (Revised) ‘Borrowing costs’ was issued in March 2007 and
£/Euro 1.46 1.47 1.46
will be implemented prospectively from 1st January 2009. It requires
£/Yen 235 215 200
borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition or construction of
certain assets to be capitalised. The option currently taken by GSK of Period end rates:
expensing such costs as incurred will no longer be available. £/US$ 1.99 1.96 1.72
£/Euro 1.36 1.48 1.46
IAS 1 (Revised) ‘Presentation of financial statements’ was issued
£/Yen 222 233 203
in September 2007 and will be effective from 1st January 2009.
The amendments to the Standard mandate various presentation
formats and disclosures, many of which are already adopted by GSK.
Movements in equity will be presented in a Statement of changes in
equity rather than as a Note to the financial statements.
An amendment to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payment’ relating to vesting
conditions and cancellations was issued in January 2008. The
amendment will apply retrospectively from 1st January 2009 and
specifies that all cancellations of share-based payment arrangements,
including those by an employee or other counterparty, should receive
the same accounting treatment of requiring immediate recognition
in the income statement of the charge that would otherwise have
been recognised over the remainder of the service period.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 99
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN100 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
6 segment information
The Group’s primary segment reporting is by business sector with geographical reporting being the secondary format. The business sectors
consist of Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines) and Consumer Healthcare (oral care, OTC medicines and nutritional
healthcare). The geographical sectors of the USA, Europe and International (other Rest of World markets) reflect the Group’s most significant
regional markets and are consistent with the Group’s regional market management reporting structure. Business sector data includes an
allocation of corporate costs to each sector on an appropriate basis. There are no sales between business sectors. The Group’s activities are
organised on a global basis. The geographical sector figures are therefore influenced by the location of the Group’s operating resources, in
particular manufacturing and research, and by variations over time in intra-Group trading and funding arrangements. Turnover is shown by
business sector, by location of customer and by location of subsidiary. Operating profit is shown by business sector and by location of subsidiary.
Other geographic information is given by location of subsidiary.
2007 2006 2005
turnover by business sector £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 19,233 20,078 18,661
Consumer Healthcare 3,483 3,147 2,999
Turnover 22,716 23,225 21,660
Profit by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 6,857 7,125 6,159
Consumer Healthcare 736 683 715
Operating profit 7,593 7,808 6,874
Finance income 262 287 257
Finance costs (453) (352) (451)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures:
Pharmaceuticals 50 56 52
Consumer Healthcare – – –
Profit before taxation 7,452 7,799 6,732
Taxation (2,142) (2,301) (1,916)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,310 5,498 4,816
investments in associates and joint ventures by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 329 295
Consumer Healthcare – –
Investment in associates and joint ventures 329 295
Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets by business sector
Additions
Pharmaceuticals 2,567 1,795
Consumer Healthcare 322 139
Total additions 2,889 1,934
Depreciation/amortisation
Pharmaceuticals (934) (849)
Consumer Healthcare (88) (109)
Total depreciation/amortisation (1,022) (958)
Impairment
Pharmaceuticals (216) (241)
Consumer Healthcare (2) (3)
Total impairment (218) (244)
Impairment reversal
Pharmaceuticals 67 61
Consumer Healthcare – –
Total impairment reversal 67 61Notes to the financial statements
continued
6 Segment information continued
2007 2006
Total assets by business sector £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 20,231 16,936
Consumer Healthcare 3,177 2,768
Total operating assets 23,408 19,704
Investments in associates and joint ventures 329 295
Liquid investments 1,153 1,035
Derivative financial instruments 476 193
Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 2,005
Current and deferred taxation 2,254 2,309
Tangible assets held for sale 4 12
Total assets 31,003 25,553
Total liabilities by business sector
Pharmaceuticals (7,651) (8,148)
Consumer Healthcare (888) (951)
Total operating liabilities (8,539) (9,099)
Short-term borrowings (3,504) (718)
Long-term borrowings (7,067) (4,772)
Derivative financial instruments (270) (100)
Current and deferred taxation (1,713) (1,216)
Total liabilities (21,093) (15,905)
Net assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 12,580 8,788
Consumer Healthcare 2,289 1,817
Net operating assets 14,869 10,605
Net debt (6,039) (2,450)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 329 295
Derivative financial instruments 206 93
Current and deferred taxation 541 1,093
Tangible assets held for sale 4 12
Net assets 9,910 9,648
2007 2006 2005
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
USA 10,168 11,102 9,867
Europe 7,239 7,010 6,892
International 5,309 5,113 4,901
Turnover 22,716 23,225 21,660
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 101
STNemeTaTS
laicNaNif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN102 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
6 segment information continued
2007 2006 2005
turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m
USA 10,400 11,362 10,185
Europe 14,009 14,007 12,303
International 10,911 9,349 8,547
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 35,320 34,718 31,035
USA 341 339 308
Europe 6,042 6,337 4,836
International 6,221 4,817 4,231
Inter-segment turnover 12,604 11,493 9,375
USA 10,059 11,023 9,877
Europe 7,967 7,670 7,467
International 4,690 4,532 4,316
External turnover 22,716 23,225 21,660
Operating profit by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 2,849 2,495 2,016
Europe 3,671 2,701 2,798
International 1,073 2,612 2,060
Operating profit 7,593 7,808 6,874
Property, plant and equipment and other intangible asset additions by location
USA 1,172 637
Europe 1,456 1,020
International 261 277
Total additions 2,889 1,934
total assets by location
USA 6,125 4,830
Europe 12,812 10,127
International 5,106 5,389
Inter-segment trading balances (635) (642)
Total operating assets 23,408 19,704GSK Annual Report 2007 I 103
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
6 segment information continued
2007 2006
net operating assets by location £m £m
USA 2,385 277
Europe 9,212 6,112
International 3,272 4,216
Net operating assets 14,869 10,605
UK segment
The UK is included in the Group’s Europe market region.
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,553 1,501 1,431
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 4,977 4,890 4,414
Inter-segment turnover 2,956 3,086 2,657
Turnover by location of subsidiary 2,021 1,804 1,757
Non-current assets 4,380 3,875104 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
7 Restructuring costs
GSK has undertaken a significant new Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and productivity of its operations. This
programme is expected to deliver total annual pre-tax savings of up to £700 million by 2010 with savings realised across the business.
In manufacturing, GSK will reduce the overall number of sites operating in its network and simplify processes and site activities to reduce over-
capacity. The Group will also continue to seek opportunities to outsource the manufacturing of existing products and for low-cost sourcing
of materials, whilst focusing its capability on new products.
GSK has conducted several sales force pilot initiatives to assess new sales structures and selling techniques. Results from these initiatives have
provided GSK with new opportunities to evolve its traditional selling methods competitively, including adopting more tailored and customised
sales approaches in both developed and emerging markets.
In R&D, GSK will continue to invest in the development of its promising late-stage pipeline and will increase investment in key areas of future
growth, such as biopharmaceuticals, oncology, vaccines, neuroscience and emerging markets such as China. Cost savings in R&D will be
focused on simplification and streamlining of support infrastructure.
Total one-off costs for implementation of the new programme are expected to be approximately £1.5 billion, to be incurred over the period
from 2007 to 2010.
In addition, in December 2007 GSK acquired Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the USA. A rationalisation and restructuring programme has been
initiated as part of the integration of Reliant Pharmaceuticals into the Group, although no costs were incured under this programme in 2007.
Asset Staff
impairment reductions Total
£m £m £m
Cost of sales (77) (34) (111)
Selling, general and administration (1) (136) (137)
Research and development (28) (62) (90)
Effect on profit before taxation (106) (232) (338)
Effect on taxation 77
Effect on earnings (261)
These restructuring costs are reported in the middle column of the Income statement on page 90.
8 Other operating income
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Royalty and milestone income 223 112 83
Impairment of equity investments (19) (14) (35)
Disposal of equity investments 32 18 15
Disposal of other assets and legal settlements 181 151 275
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 41 29 19
Other income 17 11 7
475 307 364
Royalty and milestone income is principally a core of recurring income from the out-licensing of intellectual property. Fair value adjustments
on derivative financial instruments include movements on the Quest collar and Theravance put and call options.notes to the financial statements
continued
9 Operating profit
2007 2006 2005
the following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 10) 5,733 5,495 5,254
Advertising 744 759 697
Distribution costs 270 276 270
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 796 732 710
Amortisation of intangible assets 226 226 194
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (1) 36 (3)
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 4,784 4,480 4,335
Write-down of inventories 265 146 119
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (103) (93) (61)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 121 114 104
Contingent rents 13 11 12
Sub-lease payments 2 2 1
Fees payable to company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and
consolidated financial statements 1.8 1.7 1.4
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services 14.5 15.9 13.1
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
2007 2006 2005
fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services £m £m £m
Audit of accounts of the Group’s UK and overseas subsidiaries and related pension
schemes of the company, pursuant to legislation 7.9 7.7 6.7
Other assurance services, pursuant to such legislation 2.9 4.4 2.6
Other tax services 2.5 1.9 2.3
All other services, including regulatory, compliance and treasury related services 1.2 1.9 1.5
14.5 15.9 13.1
At 31st December 2007, the amount due to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates for fees yet to be invoiced was £4.1 million,
comprising statutory audit £3.2 million, taxation services £0.6 million and other services £0.3 million.
Fees in respect of the GlaxoSmithKline UK pension schemes included above:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Audit 0.2 0.3 0.2
Other services 0.1 0.1 –
0.3 0.4 0.2
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 105
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN106 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
10 employee costs
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 4,444 4,363 4,152
Social security costs 527 461 432
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 313 377 350
Cost of share-based incentive plans 237 226 236
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 212 68 84
5,733 5,495 5,254
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare
insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
2007 2006 2005
the average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year: number Number Number
Manufacturing 33,975 32,403 30,906
Selling, general and administration 53,707 53,665 53,634
Research and development 15,719 15,734 14,963
103,401 101,802 99,503
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The number of Group employees at the end of each financial year
are given in the Financial record on page 174. The average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2007 was nil (2006 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET and the Company Secretary) in aggregate, was as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 16 15 17
Social security costs 1 1 1
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 15 14 15
35 33 36
11 finance income
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
– cash and cash equivalents 98 168 167
– available-for-sale investments 49 35 15
– derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 79 59 86
– loans and receivables 27 21 8
Realised gains on liquid investments 1 1 –
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss – 4 (2)
Net investment hedge ineffectiveness 7 (2) (17)
Unwinding of discounts on assets 1 1 –
262 287 257
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial instruments
and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest income arising from derivatives at fair
value through profit or loss relates to swap interest income.Notes to the financial statements
continued
12 Finance costs
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
- financial liabilities at amortised cost (313) (241) (288)
- derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (121) (73) (139)
Fair value hedges:
- fair value adjustments on derivatives designated as hedging instruments 10 (31) 79
- fair value adjustments on hedged items (8) 28 (77)
Fair value adjustments on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 6 1 (1)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (27) (36) (25)
(453) (352) (451)
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss except designated and effective hedging instruments are classified as held-for-trading financial
instruments under IAS 39.
13 Associates and joint ventures
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Associates:
Share of after tax profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 48 59 52
Share of after tax losses of other associates (3) (2) (1)
45 57 51
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of joint ventures 5 (1) 1
50 56 52
Share of turnover of joint ventures 13 21 32
Sales to joint ventures and associates 9 18 48
Summarised income statement information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Total turnover 3,352 3,392 3,029
Total profit 167 315 296
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 107
stNemetAts
lAicNANiF
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN108 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
14 taxation
2007 2006 2005
taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 791 2,512 407
Less double taxation relief (339) (2,112) (235)
452 400 172
Overseas taxation 1,962 2,310 1,847
Current taxation 2,414 2,710 2,019
Deferred taxation (272) (409) (103)
2,142 2,301 1,916
2007 2006 2005
Reconciliation of the taxation rate on Group profits % % %
UK statutory rate of taxation 30.0 30.0 30.0
Overseas taxes 4.3 4.2 3.0
Benefit of special tax status (3.6) (5.2) (2.3)
R&D credits (1.5) (1.3) (1.4)
Intercompany stock profit (0.8) (1.9) 1.0
Impact of share based payments 0.6 0.5 (0.3)
Tax on profit of associates (0.3) (0.4) (0.4)
Other differences (0.3) 0.3 (0.4)
Prior year items 0.1 3.3 (0.7)
Restructuring 0.2 – –
Tax rate 28.7 29.5 28.5
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UK tax rate. The impact of these overseas taxes on the company’s overall
rate of tax is shown above. Profits arising from certain operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland are accorded special status and are
taxed at reduced rates compared with the normal rates of tax in these territories. The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge increased
earnings per share by 4.9p in 2007, 7.2p in 2006 and 2.7p in 2005.
The Group is required under IFRS to create a deferred tax asset in respect of unrealised intercompany profit arising on inventory held by the
Group at the year-end by applying the tax rate of the country in which the inventory is held (rather than the tax rate of the country where
the profit was originally made and the tax paid, which is the practice under UK and US GAAP). As a result of this difference in accounting
treatment the Group tax rate under IFRS decreased by 0.8% in 2007 (2006 – 1.9% decrease, 2005 – 1.0% increase) as a result of changes
in work-in-progress and finished goods.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Resolution of such issues is
a continuing fact of life for GSK.
The Group’s main open tax issues are in the UK, the US, Canada and Japan.
GSK continues to be in dispute with HMRC primarily in respect of transfer pricing and Controlled Foreign Companies (‘CFC’) matters for the
years 1994 to date. HMRC have not yet formalised claims in respect of these matters and GSK is seeking to resolve them in discussions with
HMRC. There continues however to be a wide difference between the Group and HMRC positions, which may ultimately need to be settled
by litigation.
Following its audit of the period 2001 to 2003, the IRS has in Notices of Proposed Adjustment challenged deductions arising from intercompany
financing arrangements for those years, with which GSK disagrees and which it will vigorously contest. GSK estimates that the IRS claim for tax
and interest at 31st December 2007 net of federal tax relief for these years, is $680 million. GSK believes, supported by external professional
advice, that this claim has no merit and that no adjustment is warranted. If, contrary to GSK’s view, the IRS prevailed in its argument before
a court, the company would expect to have an additional liability for the four year unaudited period 2004-2007 proportionate to its liability
for the three year audited period 2001-2003. In the event that the company is not able to resolve this issue with the IRS, a court decision
would not be expected before 2010.
Lower courts in Japan have upheld claims by the tax authorities for Yen 39 billion (£177 million) relating to Japanese CFC legislation. The
company has paid and fully provided for the full tax but is pursuing a claim for refund to the Japanese Supreme Court. In Canada a court
hearing in respect of transfer pricing in the early 1990s was completed in July 2006. GSK is still awaiting the court’s judgement.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 109
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
14 taxation continued
GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing and other taxation issues
to a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the
liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent
upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
No provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings,
on the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at 31st December 2007 is required in such a way that incremental tax will arise. The aggregate
amount of these unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £31 billion (2006 – £26 billion).
Payable Recoverable Net
movement on current tax account £m £m £m
At 1st January 2007 (621) 186 (435)
Exchange adjustments (14) 3 (11)
Charge for the year (2,002) (412) (2,414)
Cash paid 1,637 282 1,919
Transfer to/from deferred tax 122 – 122
Other movements 52 (1) 51
At 31st December 2007 (826) 58 (768)
movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Manu-- Share Other
Accelerated Intra- other post Legal facturing Stock option net Offset
Deferred taxation capital group retirement Tax & other restruct- valuation and award temporary within
allowances Intangibles profit benefits losses disputes uring adjustments schemes differences countries Total
asset/(liability) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax asset at
1st January 2007 24 71 934 742 98 153 74 19 157 598 (747) 2,123
Deferred tax liability at
1st January 2007 (631) (555) – (4) – – – (109) – (43) 747 (595)
At 1st January 2007 (607) (484) 934 738 98 153 74 (90) 157 555 – 1,528
Exchange adjustments (11) (19) – (2) 1 (2) 1 (7) – 16 – (23)
Credit/(charge) to income
statement 25 65 187 22 (17) 19 31 (12) (39) (9) – 272
Credit/(charge) to equity – – 19 (195) – – – – (17) 26 – (167)
Transfer to/from current tax 1 – – (107) – – 2 – – (18) – (122)
Acquisitions – (250) – – 55 – – – – 16 – (179)
At 31st December 2007 (592) (688) 1,140 456 137 170 108 (109) 101 586 – 1,309
Deferred tax assets at
31st December 2007 4 94 1,140 458 137 170 108 18 101 640 (674) 2,196
Deferred tax liability at
31st December 2007 (596) (782) – (2) – – – (127) – (54) 674 (887)
(592) (688) 1,140 456 137 170 108 (109) 101 586 – 1,309
The deferred tax credit to income relating to changes in tax rates is £23 million. All other deferred tax movements arise from the origination
and reversal of temporary differences. Other net temporary differences include accrued expenses and other provisions.
At 31st December 2007, the Group had recognised a deferred tax asset of £137 million (2006 – £98 million) in respect of income tax losses of
approximately £494 million (2006 – £348 million). Of these losses, £136 million (2006 – £100 million) are due to expire between 2008–2012,
£3 million (2006 – £nil) are due to expire between 2013–2019, £327 million (2006 – £178 million) are due to expire between 2020–2028
and £28 million (2006 – £70 million) are available indefinitely. At 31st December 2007, the Group had not recognised any deferred tax asset
in respect of income tax losses of approximately £3,688 million (2006 – £3,742 million), of which £62 million (2006 – £131 million) are due
to expire between 2008–2019, £45 million (2006 – £21 million) are due to expire between 2020–2028 and £3,581 million (2006 – £3,590
million) which are available indefinitely. The Group had capital losses at 31st December 2007 of approximately £9 billion in respect of which
no deferred tax asset has been recognised. A substantial part of both income tax and capital losses are still subject to agreement by relevant
tax authorities. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.110 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
15 earnings per share
2007 2006 2005
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 94.4 95.5 82.6
Adjustment for restructuring costs 4.7
Business performance earnings per share (basic) 99.1
Diluted earnings per share 93.7 94.5 82.0
Adjustment for restructuring costs 4.6
Business performance earnings per share (diluted) 98.3
Basic and adjusted earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number
of shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated using business performance earnings. The calculation of business performance, a supplemental
non-IFRS measure, is described in Note 1 ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Diluted earnings per share have been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation to assume
the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where its exercise price
is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions attaching to the scheme have been met
at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2007 2006 2005
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 5,524 5,643 5,674
Dilution for share options 43 57 46
Diluted 5,567 5,700 5,720
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are excluded. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
16 Dividends
2007 First interim Second interim Third interim Fourth interim Total
Total dividend (£m) 670 667 708 860 2,905
Dividend per share (pence) 12 12 13 16 53
Paid/payable 12th July 2007 11th October 2007 10th January 2008 10th April 2008
2006
Total dividend (£m) 619 620 671 785 2,695
Dividend per share (pence) 11 11 12 14 48
Paid 6th July 2006 5th October 2006 4th January 2007 12th April 2007
2005
Total dividend (£m) 568 567 568 791 2,494
Dividend per share (pence) 10 10 10 14 44
Paid 7th July 2005 6th October 2005 5th January 2006 6th April 2006
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a dividend
two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2007 financial statements recognise those dividends
paid in 2007, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2006 and the first and second interim dividends for 2007. The amounts
recognised in each year are as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 2,793 2,598 2,390Notes to the financial statements
continued
17 Property, plant and equipment Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2006 4,281 7,887 1,022 13,190
Exchange adjustments (232) (295) (65) (592)
Additions 100 403 982 1,485
Additions through business combinations – 5 – 5
Disposals and write-offs (44) (578) (5) (627)
Reclassifications 153 358 (511) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (14) (4) – (18)
Cost at 31st December 2006 4,244 7,776 1,423 13,443
Exchange adjustments 143 229 61 433
Additions 140 401 1,042 1,583
Additions through business combinations 1 7 – 8
Disposals and write-offs (20) (309) (16) (345)
Reclassifications 134 418 (552) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (8) (25) (2) (35)
Cost at 31st December 2007 4,634 8,497 1,956 15,087
Depreciation at 1st January 2006 (1,290) (4,915) – (6,205)
Exchange adjustments 73 196 – 269
Provision for the year (137) (595) – (732)
Disposals and write-offs 23 506 – 529
Transfer to assets held for sale 6 3 – 9
Depreciation at 31st December 2006 (1,325) (4,805) – (6,130)
Exchange adjustments (45) (125) – (170)
Provision for the year (177) (619) – (796)
Disposals and write-offs 10 242 – 252
Transfer to assets held for sale 3 17 – 20
Depreciation at 31st December 2007 (1,534) (5,290) – (6,824)
Impairment at 1st January 2006 (146) (162) (25) (333)
Exchange adjustments 13 4 3 20
Disposals and write-offs 12 10 2 24
Impairment losses (46) (107) (2) (155)
Reversal of impairments 26 24 11 61
Impairment at 31st December 2006 (141) (231) (11) (383)
Exchange adjustments (2) (3) (1) (6)
Disposals and write-offs 7 32 5 44
Impairment losses (29) (53) (82) (164)
Reversal of impairments 43 16 8 67
Impairment at 31st December 2007 (122) (239) (81) (442)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2006 (1,466) (5,036) (11) (6,513)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2007 (1,656) (5,529) (81) (7,266)
Net book value at 1st January 2006 2,845 2,810 997 6,652
Net book value at 31st December 2006 2,778 2,740 1,412 6,930
Net book value at 31st December 2007 2,978 2,968 1,875 7,821
The net book value at 31st December 2007 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £2,752 million (2006 – £2,632
million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £168 million (2006 – £116 million) and properties with leases of less than 50 years
£58 million (2006 – £30 million).
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 111
sTNemeTaTs
laicNaNif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN112 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
17 Property, plant and equipment continued
Included in land and buildings at 31st December 2007 are leased assets with a cost of £424 million (2006 – £241 million), accumulated
depreciation of £198 million (2006 – £95 million) and a net book value of £226 million (2006 – £146 million). Included in plant, equipment
and vehicles at 31st December 2007 are leased assets with a cost of £180 million (2006 – £263 million), accumulated depreciation of £81
million (2006 – £97 million), and a net book value of £99 million (at 1st January 2007 – £166 million). Some lease agreements include renewal
or purchase options or escalation clauses.
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs to sell or value
in use. The value in use calculations determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or
cash generating unit, applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8%, adjusted where appropriate for
country specific risks. Where an impairment is indicated a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially different result, the test
would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The impairment losses have been charged through cost of sales
(£117 million), R&D (£44 million) and SG&A (£3 million).
Reversals of impairment arise from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original impairments
are deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales. The principal component of the 2007 reversals relates
to the Suzhou pharmaceuticals manufacturing facility, where a planned withdrawal of manufacturing of a key product has been terminated.
The recoverable amount has been calculated by applying a value in use calculation and a 12% discount rate.
18 Goodwill
2007 2006
£m £m
Cost at 1st January 758 696
Exchange adjustments 81 (54)
Additions through business combinations 533 126
Impairments (2) (10)
Cost at 31st December 1,370 758
Net book value at 1st January 758 696
net book value at 31st December 1,370 758
The additions for the year comprise £350 million on the acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc., £181 million on the acquisition of Domantis
Limited and £2 million on the acquisition of Praecis Pharmaceuticals Inc. See Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ for further details.
The impairments in the year of £2 million relate to the Europharm business located in Romania and were determined using the fair value less
costs to sell model.
The carrying value of goodwill is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the following companies:
2007 2006
£m £m
ID Biomedical Corporation 367 316
Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 356 –
Domantis Limited 181 –
CNS, Inc. 111 112
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. 140 134
Polfa Poznan S.A. 111 96
Corixa Corporation 24 25
Others 80 75
1,370 758
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units which are tested for impairment at least annually. The recoverable amounts of the cash
generating units are assessed using a value in use or a fair value less costs to sell model, depending on the nature of the unit. Value in use is
calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, five-year post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the cash generating
unit to which the goodwill is allocated. Initially a post-tax discount rate based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital of 8%, adjusted
where appropriate for country specific risks, is applied to calculate the net present value of the post-tax cash flows. Where this indicates that
the recoverable value of the unit is close to or below its carrying value, the impairment test is reperformed using a pre-tax discount rate and
pre-tax cash flows in order to determine if an impairment exists and to establish its magnitude. Fair value is calculated using a discounted
cash flow approach, which in this case is based on the Group’s acquisition valuation model. A post-tax discount rate based on the Group’s
weighted average cost of capital is applied, adjusted where appropriate for country specific risks. This rate is applied to projected risk-adjusted
post-tax cash flows.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 113
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
18 Goodwill continued
The cash generating units for which the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit is significant in comparison with the total goodwill
balance are Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, US Pharmaceuticals, worldwide Pharmaceuticals, Japan and Poland. Total goodwill of £414 million
(2006 – £362 million), principally relating to the acquisitions of ID Biomedical and Corixa, is allocated to the Vaccines unit. The recoverable value
of this unit is determined using the fair value less costs to sell model. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of the minority interest in GlaxoSmithKine
K.K. of £140 million (2006 – £134 million) and on the acquisition of Polfa Poznan of £111 million (2006 – £96 million) is allocated to the Japan
and Poland cash generating units respectively. The recoverable value of both these units is determined using the value in use model. Goodwill
arising on the acquisition of CNS, Inc. in December 2006 is allocated to the Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit. As Domantis Limited is a
research operation, the goodwill arising on the acquisition has been allocated to the worldwide Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit. Goodwill
arising on the acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in December 2007 is allocated to the US Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit.
19 Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2006 685 2,399 73 1,184 4,341
Exchange adjustments (23) (204) (9) (62) (298)
Additions 90 138 – – 228
Additions through business combinations – 29 – 187 216
Disposals and asset write-offs (37) (80) – – (117)
Cost at 31st December 2006 715 2,282 64 1,309 4,370
Exchange adjustments 9 128 (1) 44 180
Additions 85 339 203 – 627
Additions through business combinations 1 670 – – 671
Disposals and asset write-offs (8) (26) – – (34)
Transfer to assets held for sale (1) – – – (1)
Cost at 31st December 2007 801 3,393 266 1,353 5,813
Amortisation at 1st January 2006 (399) (381) (4) – (784)
Exchange adjustments 13 37 1 – 51
Provision for the year (87) (138) (1) – (226)
Disposals and asset write-offs 29 7 – – 36
Amortisation at 31st December 2006 (444) (475) (4) – (923)
Exchange adjustments (8) (13) (1) – (22)
Provision for the year (80) (141) (5) – (226)
Disposals and asset write-offs 1 7 – – 8
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 – – – 1
Amortisation at 31st December 2007 (530) (622) (10) – (1,162)
Impairment at 1st January 2006 (23) (127) – (24) (174)
Exchange adjustments – 29 – 3 32
Impairment losses (9) (80) – – (89)
Disposals and asset write-offs 8 69 – – 77
Impairment at 31st December 2006 (24) (109) – (21) (154)
Exchange adjustments – (6) – – (6)
Impairment losses – (54) – – (54)
Disposals and asset write-offs – 19 – – 19
Impairment at 31st December 2007 (24) (150) – (21) (195)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2006 (468) (584) (4) (21) (1,077)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2007 (554) (772) (10) (21) (1,357)
Net book value at 1st January 2006 263 1,891 69 1,160 3,383
Net book value at 31st December 2006 247 1,698 60 1,288 3,293
net book value at 31st December 2007 247 2,621 256 1,332 4,456114 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
19 Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Impairment
£m £m
Cost of sales 32 –
Selling, general and administration 123 3
Research and development 71 51
Total amortisation and impairment 226 54
The additions through business combinations in the year of £671 million include £603 million in respect of Lovaza, acquired with the
acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals (see Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’). Included within other additions are internally generated
costs of £41 million (2006 – £25 million) relating to computer software and £6 million (2006 – £nil) relating to other intangible assets.
At 31st December 2007, the net book value included £136 million (2006 – £112 million) of internally generated costs of which £130
million (2006 – £112 million) related to computer software and £6 million (2006 – £nil) related to other intangible assets.
Amortised brands include OTC rights relating to alli, acquired from Roche, of £249 million (2006 – £51 million).
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of products acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop, Inc. in 1994, Block Drug Company,
Inc. in 2001 and CNS, Inc. in 2006. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2007 2006
£m £m
Panadol 330 317
Sensodyne 231 220
Breathe Right 165 169
Polident 98 93
Corega 87 83
Poligrip 60 57
Solpadeine 57 56
Others 304 293
1,332 1,288
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support. The
brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and market shares mean that
the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively low. The Group is not aware of any material
legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment applying a fair value less costs to sell methodology, using five year post-tax cash flow forecasts
with a terminal value calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8%, adjusted where
appropriate for country-specific risks. The main assumptions include future sales prices and volumes, product contribution, the future
expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdiction and the product’s useful economic
life. These assumptions are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in market conditions and
sales erosion through competition.
20 investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint Associated 2007 2006
ventures undertakings total Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1st January 16 279 295 276
Exchange adjustments – (4) (4) (37)
Additions – 1 1 13
Fair value adjustment – 1 1 1
Retained (loss)/profit for the year (1) 37 36 42
At 31st December 15 314 329 295
The principal associated undertaking is Quest Diagnostics Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The investment had a book value at 31st December 2007 of £299 million (2006 – £262 million) and a market value of £970 million
(2006 – £987 million).
At 31st December 2007, the Group owned 18.9% of Quest (2006 – 18.7%). Although the Group holds less than 20% of the ownership
interest and voting control in Quest, the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence through both its significant shareholding and
its nominated director’s active participation on the Quest Board of Directors and Board sub-committees.Notes to the financial statements
continued
20 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued
Summarised balance sheet information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below: 2007 2006
£m £m
Total assets 4,342 2,930
Total liabilities (2,634) (1,350)
Net assets 1,708 1,580
Group’s share of associates’ net assets 314 279
Investments in joint ventures comprise £21 million share of gross assets (2006 – £22 million) and £6 million share of gross liabilities (2006
– £6 million). These principally arise from 50% interests in two joint ventures, Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings, L.P., which is developing
specified chemical compounds, and GlaxoSmithKline Shire Canada, which primarily co-markets Combivir, Trizivir and Epivir in certain territories,
together with a 30% interest in another joint venture, Pharmaceutical Insurance Limited, which is a mutual insurance company covering
pharmaceutical property risk.
In 2002, GSK hedged part of the equity value of its holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. through a series of variable sale forward contracts.
The contracts (‘the equity collar’) were renewed in 2006 and are structured in five series, each over two million Quest shares, and mature
between 2010 and 2012. The fair value of the contracts at 31st December 2007 was a liability of $4 million (2006 – $24 million).
A second series of hedging contracts over an additional 10 million shares was entered into on 15th February 2007. These contracts are also
structured in five series, each over two million Quest shares, and mature between 2013 and 2015. The fair value of the contracts at 31st
December 2007 was an asset of $15 million.
21 Other investments
2007 2006
£m £m
At 1st January 441 362
Exchange adjustments 12 (45)
Additions 206 57
Net fair value movements (67) 116
Impairments (31) (16)
Disposals (44) (33)
At 31st December 517 441
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each balance
sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid
price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by reference to the current market value of similar instruments or by reference to the
discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. Equity investments are recorded as non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold
within one year, in which case they are recorded as current assets.
The Group holds a number of equity investments in entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. Other investments
include listed investments of £413 million (2006 – £348 million) that offer the Group the opportunity for return through dividend income
and fair value gains.
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from reserves to the income statement based on average cost.
The impairment losses recorded in the tables above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within other operating income,
together with amounts recycled from the fair value reserve (Note 8, ‘Other operating income’) on recognition of the impairments. These
impairments initially result from prolonged or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent
to which any further declines in fair value are immediately taken to the income statement. At 31st December 2007 impaired assets with a fair
value of £97 million (2006 – £117 million) are included in other investments.
22 Other non-current assets
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts recoverable under insurance contracts 271 262
Pension schemes in surplus 255 179
Other receivables 161 167
687 608
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 115
stNemetats
laIcNaNIf
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN116 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
23 inventories
2007 2006
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,105 764
Work in progress 771 626
Finished goods 1,186 1,047
3,062 2,437
24 trade and other receivables
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade receivables 4,649 4,356
Prepaid pension contributions 1 1
Other prepayments and accrued income 238 223
Interest receivable 37 28
Employee loans and advances 55 51
Other receivables 515 578
5,495 5,237
Trade receivables include £8 million (2006 – £13 million) due from associates and joint ventures.
2007 2006
Bad and doubtful debt provision £m £m
At 1st January 104 140
Exchange adjustments 6 (9)
Charge for the year 18 12
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (28) (38)
Utilised (2) (1)
At 31st December 98 104
25 cash and cash equivalents
2007 2006
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 627 620
Short-term deposits 2,383 1,324
Commercial paper 369 61
3,379 2,005
26 assets held for sale
2007 2006
£m £m
Land and buildings 3 8
Plant, equipment and vehicles 1 1
Equity investments – 3
4 12
27 trade and other payables
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade payables 931 865
Wages and salaries 812 718
Social security 116 104
Other payables 214 272
Deferred income 48 40
Customer return and rebate accruals 973 1,119
Other accruals 1,767 1,713
4,861 4,831GSK Annual Report 2007 I 117
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
27 trade and other payables continued
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable to customers, principally in the USA. Provisions are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on
claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome and
the amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of
provision is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns
made and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the provisions are based to change, which
could affect the future results of the Group.
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2007 2006 2005
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 108 159 124
US pension schemes 24 35 41
Other overseas pensions schemes 89 91 83
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 90 91 100
Other post-employment costs 2 1 2
313 377 350
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 171 237 198
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 17 19 25
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 90 91 100
Defined benefit schemes 278 347 323
Defined contribution pension schemes 33 29 25
Other post-employment costs 2 1 2
313 377 350
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 72 74 71
Selling, general and administration 129 175 177
Research and development 77 98 75
278 347 323
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by
state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions
paid in respect of each employee, or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable remuneration
and length of service. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been assessed in accordance with independent actuarial advice, using
the projected unit method. In certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies.
Liabilities are generally assessed annually in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations
of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised in full through the statement of recognised income and expense.
The UK discount rate is based on the iBoxx over 15 year AA index and the US discount rate is based on corporate bond yields which reflect
the term of the expected benefit payments. The expected rate of return on bonds reflects the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and
corporate bonds. An equity risk premium of between 3% and 4% is added to longer term government bond yields to give the expected
rate of return on equities. Projected inflation rate and pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term
index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by adjusting the PA92 standard mortality tables to reflect recent
scheme experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the medium cohort (i.e. improvements
at recently observed higher levels which are assumed to continue to 2020) with minimum improvements thereafter of 1% per year for males
and 0.5% for females. In the USA, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2000 fully generational table, projected using scale AA, with the
white collar adjustment.
The mortality assumptions for the UK and US schemes were set following a review in December 2007. GSK expects to review these again in
December 2008.118 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2027 for an individual then at the age
of 60 is as follows:
UK USA
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 26.8 28.0 24.4 26.1
Projected for 2027 29.2 29.8 25.9 27.0
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insured. Assets are invested in different classes in order
to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment.
Following an asset liability study in 2007, the Group decided to adopt a strategy to reduce gradually the allocation of investment in equities. In
the UK it is proposed that the strategy will be linked to the funding levels in the schemes and this will be considered further with the trustees of
the UK schemes in 2008. The allocation of equities and property in the US scheme will be reduced from 80% of the total to 60% in 2008.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline Beecham
employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to join a defined
contribution scheme. In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were merged during 2001.
In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the USA.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK USA Rest of World
2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.25 4.25 4.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 3.25 3.25 3.25
Discount rate 5.75 5.00 4.75 6.00 5.75 5.50 4.75 4.25 3.75
Expected pension increases 3.25 3.00 2.75 n/a n/a n/a 2.00 2.00 2.00
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 4.75 4.75 4.50 1.60 1.75 1.75
Inflation rate 3.25 3.00 2.75 2.50 2.50 2.50 1.75 1.75 1.75
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of recognised income and expense for the three years ended 31st December
2007 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2007 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 138 60 57 255 30
Past service cost – (7) 1 (6) –
Expected return on pension scheme assets (389) (141) (37) (567) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 335 107 41 483 54
Settlements and curtailments 24 5 (6) 23 6
108 24 56 188 90
Actuarial gains recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense 523 66 43 632 39
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2006 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 135 66 56 257 48
Past service cost 33 – (2) 31 –
Expected return on pension scheme assets (333) (142) (30) (505) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 307 113 42 462 57
Settlements and curtailments 17 (2) (4) 11 (14)
159 35 62 256 91
Actuarial gains recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense 111 169 10 290 139GSK Annual Report 2007 I 119
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2005 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 117 63 52 232 46
Past service cost – – – – 1
Expected return on pension scheme assets (285) (126) (28) (439) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 276 104 34 414 53
Settlements and curtailments 16 – – 16 –
124 41 58 223 100
Actuarial losses recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense (490) (109) (93) (692) (102)
The total actuarial losses recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense since 1st January 2003 amount to £18 million.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other defined
benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
at 31st December 2007 Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,578 8.50 1,446 7.50 223 6,247
Property 7.00 338 7.50 213 7.00 20 571
Bonds 5.00 2,322 5.00 335 4.00 430 3,087
Other assets 6.00 55 4.75 10 4.25 212 277
Fair value of assets 7,293 2,004 885 10,182
Present value of scheme obligations (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338)
(78) 59 (137) (156)
Included in other non-current assets 10 215 30 255
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (88) (156) (167) (411)
(78) 59 (137) (156)
Actual return on plan assets 557 187 19 763
UK USA Rest of World Group
at 31st December 2006 Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,218 8.50 1,412 7.25 205 5,835
Property 7.00 210 7.50 169 6.75 11 390
Bonds 4.50 2,026 5.50 324 3.50 351 2,701
Other assets 5.00 100 5.00 48 3.75 174 322
Fair value of assets 6,554 1,953 741 9,248
Present value of scheme obligations (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345)
(890) 4 (211) (1,097)
Included in other non-current assets – 160 19 179
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (890) (156) (230) (1,276)
(890) 4 (211) (1,097)
Actual return on plan assets 560 310 56 926120 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK USA Rest of World Group
at 31st December 2005 Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 7.75 3,895 8.50 1,440 7.00 192 5,527
Property – – 7.50 106 6.25 11 117
Bonds 4.25 1,764 5.50 352 3.50 302 2,418
Other assets 4.00 85 4.00 78 3.25 152 315
Fair value of assets 5,744 1,976 657 8,377
Present value of scheme obligations (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126)
(1,310) (174) (265) (1,749)
Included in other non-current assets – – 12 12
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (1,310) (174) (277) (1,761)
(1,310) (174) (265) (1,749)
Actual return on plan assets 932 129 63 1,124
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1st January 2005 (5,735) (1,750) (761) (8,246) (1,005)
Exchange adjustments – (217) 14 (203) (138)
Service cost (117) (63) (52) (232) (47)
Interest cost (276) (104) (34) (414) (53)
Settlements and curtailments (16) – – (16) –
Actuarial losses (1,137) (112) (128) (1,377) (102)
Scheme participants’ contributions (12) – (3) (15) (9)
Benefits paid 239 96 42 377 46
Obligations at 31st December 2005 (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126) (1,308)
Exchange adjustments – 267 30 297 151
Service cost (168) (66) (54) (288) (48)
Interest cost (307) (113) (42) (462) (57)
Settlements and curtailments (17) 2 12 (3) 14
Actuarial (losses)/gains (116) 1 (16) (131) 139
Scheme participants’ contributions (11) – (3) (14) (8)
Benefits paid 229 110 43 382 54
Obligations at 31st December 2006 (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345) (1,063)
Exchange adjustments – 34 (80) (46) 9
Service cost (138) (53) (58) (249) (30)
Interest cost (335) (107) (41) (483) (54)
Settlements and curtailments (24) (5) 4 (25) (6)
Actuarial gains 355 20 61 436 39
Scheme participants’ contributions (38) – (5) (43) –
Benefits paid 253 115 49 417 44
Transfers – – – – 89
Recognised in the balance sheet at 31st December 2007 (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (972)
Unrecognised past service costs – – – – (47)
Obligations at 31st December 2007 (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (1,019)
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with obligations totalling £693 million at 31st December 2007 (2006
– £609 million, 2005 – £515 million).GSK Annual Report 2007 I 121
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme,
together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 8.5% (2006 – 9.25%), reducing by 0.75% per year to 5% in 2013 and thereafter.
During 2007, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme was amended. The main change was an increase in the cap on company costs. At the
year-end the plan obligation was £879 million. However, in accordance with IAS 19 the unvested part of a benefit improvement is not recognised
immediately on the balance sheet but is recognised gradually through the income statement. At the year-end the unrecognised amount was
£47 million and the amount recognised on the balance sheet was therefore £832 million (2006 – £927 million, 2005 – £1,133 million).
The Group provides certain medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in the USA. The obligations for these benefits which
were transferred at a value of £89 million are now shown within other provisions.
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Funded (10,079) (10,099) (9,858)
Unfunded (259) (246) (268)
(10,338) (10,345) (10,126)
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1st January 2005 4,561 1,638 547 6,746 –
Exchange adjustments – 200 (4) 196 –
Expected return on assets 285 126 28 439 –
Actuarial gains 647 3 35 685 –
Employer contributions 478 105 90 673 37
Scheme participants’ contributions 12 – 3 15 9
Benefits paid (239) (96) (42) (377) (46)
Assets at 31st December 2005 5,744 1,976 657 8,377 –
Exchange adjustments – (255) (30) (285) –
Expected return on assets 333 142 30 505 –
Settlements and curtailments – – (8) (8) –
Actuarial gains 227 168 26 421 –
Employer contributions 468 32 106 606 46
Scheme participants’ contributions 11 – 3 14 8
Benefits paid (229) (110) (43) (382) (54)
Assets at 31st December 2006 6,554 1,953 741 9,248 –
Exchange adjustments – (29) 68 39 –
Expected return on assets 389 141 37 567 –
Settlements and curtailments – – 2 2 –
Actuarial gains 168 46 (18) 196 –
Employer contributions 397 8 99 504 41
Scheme participants’ contributions 38 – 5 43 3
Benefits paid (253) (115) (49) (417) (44)
Assets at 31st December 2007 7,293 2,004 885 10,182 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £693 million at 31st December 2007
(2006 – £609 million, 2005 – £515 million).
During 2007, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £285 million (2006 – £346 million to the UK and US
pension schemes). In 2006, GSK formalised an agreement with the trustees of the UK defined benefit pension schemes to make additional contributions
of up to £325 million per year in addition to the normal contributions, over a four-year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the
then pension deficits on an IAS 19 basis.
Employer contributions for 2008, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £200 million in respect of defined
benefit pension schemes and £40 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.122 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
History of experience gains and losses £m £m £m £m £m
2007
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme assets (£m) 168 46 (18) 196
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2007 2% 2% 2% 2%
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities (£m) 33 (30) 6 9 –
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2007 – 2% 1% – –
Fair value of assets 7,293 2,004 885 10,182 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,371) (1,945) (1,022) (10,338) (1,019)
(Deficits)/surpluses in the schemes (78) 59 (137) (156) (1,019)
2006
Experience gains of scheme assets (£m) 227 168 26 421
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2006 3% 9% 4% 5%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (37) (16) (42) (95) 17
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2006 – 1% 4% 1% 2%
Fair value of assets 6,554 1,953 741 9,248 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345) (1,063)
(Deficits)/surpluses in the schemes (890) 4 (211) (1,097) (1,063)
2005
Experience gains of scheme assets (£m) 647 3 35 685
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2005 11% – 5% 8%
Experience losses of scheme liabilities (£m) (94) (10) (35) (139) (4)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2005 1% – 4% 1% –
Fair value of assets 5,744 1,976 657 8,377 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126) (1,308)
Deficits in the schemes (1,310) (174) (265) (1,749) (1,308)
2004
Experience gains of scheme assets (£m) 196 86 23 305
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2004 4% 5% 4% 5%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (25) (5) (18) (48) 47
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2004 – – 2% 1% 5%
Fair value of assets 4,561 1,638 547 6,746 –
Present value of scheme obligations (5,735) (1,750) (761) (8,246) (1,005)
Deficits in the schemes (1,174) (112) (214) (1,500) (1,005)
2003
Experience gains of scheme assets (£m) 336 231 33 600
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2003 8% 15% 7% 10%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (183) 5 (19) (197) (123)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2003 3% – 3% 2% 13%
Fair value of assets 3,955 1,583 444 5,982 –
Present value of scheme obligations (5,508) (1,751) (707) (7,966) (951)
Deficits in the schemes (1,553) (168) (263) (1,984) (951)GSK Annual Report 2007 I 123
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the annual defined benefit pension and post-retirement costs or the benefit obligations:
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 8
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost –
Increase in pension obligation 374
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 29
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 17
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 3
Increase in pension obligation 231
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 38
A 0.25% decrease in expected rates of returns on assets would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 24
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 3
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 47
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 26
Increase in pension obligation 317
29 Other provisions
Integration
Legal New Operational Employee and
and other Excellence related manufacturing Other
disputes programme provisions re-organisation provisions total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2007 1,105 – 175 167 136 1,583
Exchange adjustments (1) 6 1 2 4 12
Charge for the year 349 220 2 32 48 651
Reversed unused (133) – (27) (16) (41) (217)
Unwinding of discount 17 – 7 – 3 27
Utilised (186) (9) (17) (64) (15) (291)
Reclassifications and other movements 1 29 93 (5) 44 162
At 31st December 2007 1,152 246 234 116 179 1,927
To be settled within one year 468 212 55 75 82 892
To be settled after one year 684 34 179 41 97 1,035
At 31st December 2007 1,152 246 234 116 179 1,927124 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
29 Other provisions continued
Legal and other disputes
GSK is involved in a number of legal and other disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in Note 44 ‘Legal proceedings’.
Provisions for legal and other disputes include amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability, contract terminations, self-insurance,
environmental clean-up and property rental. The company’s Directors, having taken legal and other specialist advice, have established provisions
after taking into account insurance and other agreements and having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances of each matter and in
accordance with accounting requirements.
The discount on these provisions decreased by £10 million in 2007 (2006 - £2 million increase) and was calculated using risk-adjusted projected
cash flows and risk-free rates of return. The movement in 2007 includes a decrease of £34 million arising from a change in the discount rate
in the year. A number of products have a history of claims made and settlements which makes it possible to use an IBNR (incurred but not
reported) actuarial technique to determine a reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure for unasserted claims in relation to those products.
Apart from the IBNR provision, no provisions have been made for unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters, including those provided using the IBNR actuarial technique, may
be the subject of negotiation and litigation over several years. The largest individual amounts provided are expected to be settled within
three years.
At 31st December 2007, it is expected that £89 million (2006 – £120 million) of the provision made for legal and other disputes will be
reimbursed by third party insurers. This amount is included within current and non-current assets. For a discussion of legal issues, refer to
Note 44 ‘Legal proceedings’.
New Operational Excellence programme
In October 2007, GSK announced a significant new £1.5 billion Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and
productivity of its operations. This new programme is expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of £700 million by 2010. GSK expects to
realise the majority of annual savings within the first two years of the programme, with approximately £350 million expected by 2008 and
£550 million by 2009. These savings will partly mitigate the expected impact to 2008 earnings from generic competition and lower Avandia
sales and the associated adverse impact on GSK’s gross margin. Costs recognised as a provision, principally in respect of identified severances
at sites where it has been announced that manufacturing activities will be reduced or cease, are expected to be incurred mainly in 2008
and 2009. Asset retirement obligations recognised as a provision amount to £29 million in the year. Costs of asset write-downs have been
recognised as impairments of property, plant and equipment.
Employee related provisions
Employee related provisions includes the exchange offer incentive programme which operated at the time of the merger to encourage staff
to convert Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options. The incentive is paid either when
employees exercise the relevant options, or when the options lapse, up to 2010. The discount on this provision increased by £7 million in 2007
(2006 – £2 million), and was calculated using risk-free rates of return. The Group provides certain medical benefits to disabled employees and
their spouses in the USA. These were transferred from post-retirement benefits at a value of £89 million during the year and are reflected in
the total reclassifications and other movements figure of £162 million. At 31st December 2007, the provision for these benefits amounted to
£73 million. Other employee benefits reflect a variety of provisions for severance costs, jubilee awards and other long-service benefits.
Integration and manufacturing re-organisation
The Group has recognised costs in previous years in respect of plans for the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
businesses. Implementation of the integration following the merger is substantially complete. Costs recognised in the remaining merger
integration provision in respect of identified severances are expected to be incurred in 2008. Other smaller cost-saving initiatives since the
merger are now included within this category.
30 Other non-current liabilities
2007 2006
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 68 97
Other payables 300 249
368 346
31 contingent liabilities
At 31st December 2007 contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, letters of credit, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal
course of business, amounted to £206 million (2006 – £258 million). At 31st December 2007, £119 million (2006 – £114 million) of financial
assets were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. For discussions of tax and legal issues, refer to Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and Note 44,
‘Legal proceedings’.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 125
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
32 net debt
2007 2006
£m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 1,153 1,035
Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 2,005
4,532 3,040
Short-term borrowings:
2.375% US$ Medium Term Note 2007 – (255)
3.375% € European Medium Term Note (736) –
4.875% £ European Medium Term Note (497) –
Commercial paper (2,064) –
Bank loans and overdrafts (161) (410)
Other loans (6) (11)
Obligations under finance leases (40) (42)
(3,504) (718)
Long-term borrowings:
3.375% € European Medium Term Note 2008 – (671)
4.875% £ European Medium Term Note 2008 – (494)
3.25% € European Medium Term Note 2009 (368) (338)
3.00% € European Medium Term Note 2012 (548) (503)
5.125% € European Medium Term Note 2012 (1,645) –
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 (746) (719)
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 (912) –
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 (542) (497)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 (978) (977)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 (249) (253)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 (984) –
Loan stock (9) (10)
Bank loans (1) (1)
Other loans and private financing (2) (212)
Obligations under finance leases (83) (97)
(7,067) (4,772)
Net debt (6,039) (2,450)
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At 31st December 2007, they included redeemable shares, which were
102% collateralised with highly rated bonds, of €1 billion (£736 million) (2006 – €1 billion (£676 million)) and government bonds. The
effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31st December 2007 was approximately 4.9% (2006 – approximately 3.7%). Liquid investment
balances at 31st December 2007 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £868 million and £285 million, respectively (2006
– £750 million and £285 million).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31st December 2007 was approximately 5.0% (2006 – approximately 4.8%). Cash
and cash equivalents balances at 31st December 2007 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £3,257 million and £36 million,
respectively (2006 – £1,940 million and £12 million).
From July 2007 onwards, GSK tightened its criteria for holding cash equivalents and liquid investments in response to the credit crisis.
GSK has suffered no loss of principal as a result of this crisis.
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is referred to in Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and
related disclosures’.126 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
32 net debt continued
Short-term borrowings
Commercial paper comprises a US $10 billion programme, of which $4.1 billion (£2.1 billion) was in issue at 31st December 2007 (2006 – nil),
backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of $5 billion (£2.5 billion) (2006 – $900 million (£459 million)) renewable annually,
and liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents as shown in the table above.
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31st December 2007 was 4.85% (2006 – 2.4%).
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £7.1 billion (2006 – £4.8 billion) of which £4.4 billion (2006 – £3.2 billion) falls due in
more than five years.
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 4.03% and 5.66%. The repayment
dates range from 2014 to 2042. The average effective interest rate of all notes at 31st December 2007 was approximately 4.8%
(2006 – approximately 4.3%).
secured loans
GSK had no loans secured by charges on non-current and current assets in the year (2006 – £nil).
2007 2006
finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 45 49
Rental payments due between one and two years 40 41
Rental payments due between two and three years 26 30
Rental payments due between three and four years 11 18
Rental payments due between four and five years 5 8
Rental payments due after five years 10 14
Total future rental payments 137 160
Future finance charges (14) (21)
Total finance lease obligations 123 139
Finance lease obligations at 31st December 2007 bearing interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £94 million and £29 million, respectively
(2006 – £93 million and £46 million).GSK Annual Report 2007 I 127
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
33 share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary shares of 25p each
Premium
Number £m £m
share capital authorised
At 31st December 2005 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2006 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2007 10,000,000,000 2,500
share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2005 5,937,688,831 1,484 304
Issued under share option schemes 25,162,425 7 245
At 31st December 2005 5,962,851,256 1,491 549
Issued under share option schemes 28,750,592 7 309
At 31st December 2006 5,991,601,848 1,498 858
Issued under share option schemes 37,307,678 9 408
Share capital purchased and cancelled (16,322,500) (4) –
At 31st December 2007 6,012,587,026 1,503 1,266
31st December 31st December 31st December
2007 2006 2005
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options (Note 42) 218,182 225,163 221,293
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 3,769,231 3,783,235 3,815,856
At 31st December 2007, of the issued share capital, 134,529,906 shares were held in the ESOP Trust, 504,194,158 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 5,373,862,962 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of the
shares held in the ESOP Trust are disclosed in Note 42, Employee share schemes’.
In July 2007, the Group increased its share buy-back programme to £12 billion, which is expected to be completed over a two-year period. The
exact amount and timing of future purchases, and whether repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares or cancelled, will be determined
by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors. In 2007, the Group also commenced close period share buy-backs
by operating under specific, irrevocable agreements put in place with its brokers prior to the start of each close period.
A total of £11.6 billion has been spent by the company between 1st January 2001 and 31st December 2007 on buying its own shares for
cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which £3.8 billion was spent in 2007.
28.9 million shares have been purchased and cancelled in the period 1st January 2008 to 22nd February 2008 at a cost of £323 million. All
purchases were made through the publicly announced buy-back programme.
The table below sets out the monthly purchases under the share buy-back programme:
Average share price excluding
Number of shares commission and stamp duty
Month 000 £
January 2007 12,090 13.87
February 2007 9,910 14.48
March 2007 23,900 13.97
April 2007 8,800 14.45
May 2007 12,886 13.78
June 2007 22,480 13.05
July 2007 3,950 12.56
August 2007 47,528 12.76
September 2007 38,512 13.21
October 2007 55,775 12.76
November 2007 32,880 12.10
December 2007 16,323 12.99
Total 285,034 13.09
Of the shares purchased in 2007, 269 million (£3,537 million) are held as Treasury shares and 16 million (£213 million) have been cancelled. For
details of substantial shareholdings refer to ‘Substantial shareholdings’ on page 176.128 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
34 movements in equity
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Total Minority total
capital premium earnings reserves £m interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2005 1,484 304 4,448 (528) 5,708 217 5,925
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 4,426 (3) 4,423 153 4,576
Changes in minority shareholdings – – (15) – (15) (25) (40)
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (86) (86)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,390) – (2,390) – (2,390)
Ordinary shares issued 7 245 – – 252 – 252
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (1,000) – (1,000) – (1,000)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 68 68 – 68
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (155) 155 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 240 – 240 – 240
Tax on share based incentive plans – – 25 – 25 – 25
At 31st December 2005 1,491 549 5,579 (308) 7,311 259 7,570
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 5,248 59 5,307 88 5,395
Changes in minority shareholdings – – – – – 2 2
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (87) (87)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,598) – (2,598) – (2,598)
Ordinary shares issued 7 309 – – 316 – 316
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (1,348) – (1,348) – (1,348)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 151 151 – 151
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (163) 163 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 226 – 226 – 226
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 21 – 21 – 21
At 31st December 2006 1,498 858 6,965 65 9,386 262 9,648
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 6,104 (92) 6,012 122 6,134
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (77) (77)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,793) – (2,793) – (2,793)
Ordinary shares issued 9 408 – – 417 – 417
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled (4) – (213) 4 (213) – (213)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (3,537) – (3,537) – (3,537)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (26) (26) – (26)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 116 116 – 116
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (292) 292 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 237 – 237 – 237
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 4 – 4 – 4
At 31st December 2007 1,503 1,266 6,475 359 9,603 307 9,910GSK Annual Report 2007 I 129
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
34 movements in equity continued
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £6,834 million at 31st December 2007 (2006 – £7,030 million, 2005 – £5,271 million)
of which £10,358 million (2006 – £7,180 million, 2005 – £8,067 million) relates to the company and £218 million (2006 – £185 million,
2005 – £180 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative translation exchange in equity is shown in the
following table:
Net translation exchange included in:
Total
Fair value Retained Minority translation
reserve earnings interest exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2005 – 96 (91) 5
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 14 167 22 203
Exchange movements on goodwill in reserves – 9 – 9
At 31st December 2005 14 272 (69) 217
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (5) (362) (23) (390)
Exchange movements on goodwill in reserves – 31 – 31
At 31st December 2006 9 (59) (92) (142)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets – 408 17 425
Exchange movements on goodwill in reserves – (14) – (14)
At 31st December 2007 9 335 (75) 269
The analysis of other reserves is as follows: Cash flow
ESOP Trust Fair value hedge Other
shares reserve reserve reserves total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2005 (2,536) 76 2 1,930 (528)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (11) – – (11)
Net fair value movement in the year – 11 (3) – 8
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 68 – – – 68
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 155 – – – 155
At 31st December 2005 (2,313) 76 (1) 1,930 (308)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (19) – – (19)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (2) – – (2)
Net fair value movement in the year – 82 (2) – 80
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 151 – – – 151
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 163 – – – 163
At 31st December 2006 (1,999) 137 (3) 1,930 65
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (34) – – (34)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (12) – – (12)
Net fair value movement in the year – (42) (4) – (46)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled – – – 4 4
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (26) – – – (26)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 116 – – – 116
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 292 – – – 292
At 31st December 2007 (1,617) 49 (7) 1,934 359
Other reserves include the merger reserve created on the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham amounting to £1,561 million
at 31st December 2007 (2006 – £1,561 million; 2005 – £1,561 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as
a result of the share buy-back programme amounting to £85 million at 31st December 2007 (2006 – £81 million, 2005 – £81 million).130 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
35 Related party transactions
GlaxoSmithKline held an 18.9% interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc. at 31st December 2007 (2006 – 18.7%). The Group and Quest Diagnostics
are parties to a long-term contractual relationship under which Quest Diagnostics is the primary provider of clinical laboratory testing to support
the Group’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide. During 2007, Quest Diagnostics provided services of £38 million (2006 – £48 million)
to the Group. At 31st December 2007 the balance payable by GlaxoSmithKline to Quest Diagnostics was £5 million (2006 – £4 million).
In 2007, both the Group and Shionogi & Co. Ltd. entered into transactions with their 50/50 US joint venture company in support of the research and
development activities conducted by that joint venture company. During 2007, GlaxoSmithKline provided services to the joint venture of £2 million
(2006 – £2 million). At 31st December 2007 the balance due to GlaxoSmithKline from the joint venture was £2 million (2006 – £3 million).
Dr Shapiro, a former Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc, received fees of $85,000 (2006 – $85,000) of which $30,000 (2006
– $30,000) was in the form of ADSs, from a subsidiary of the company, for her membership of the Group’s Scientific Advisory Board. These
fees are included within ‘Annual remuneration’ in the Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors, CET and Company Secretary is given in Note 10, ‘Employee Costs’.
36 Reconciliation of profit after tax to operating cash flows
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 5,310 5,498 4,816
Tax on profits 2,142 2,301 1,916
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (50) (56) (52)
Finance income/costs 191 65 194
Depreciation 796 732 710
Impairment and assets written off 206 208 193
Amortisation of intangible assets 226 226 194
Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment – – (19)
Profit on sale of intangible assets (5) (158) (203)
Profit on sale of equity investments (32) (18) (15)
Changes in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (457) (298) 47
Increase in trade and other receivables (79) (529) (397)
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables (187) 354 491
Decrease in pension and other provisions (123) (270) (453)
Share-based incentive plans 237 226 236
Other (95) (78) 7
Cash generated from operations 8,080 8,203 7,665
37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2007 2006 2005
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (2,450) (1,237) (1,984)
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS 39 – – 13
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,411 (1,956) 1,384
Cash outflow/(inflow) from liquid investments 39 55 (550)
Net increase in long-term loans (3,276) – (912)
Net (increase in)/repayment of short-term loans (1,632) 739 857
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 39 34 36
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired – – (68)
Exchange adjustments (88) (9) 39
Other non-cash movements (82) (76) (52)
Movement in net debt (3,589) (1,213) 747
Net debt at end of year (6,039) (2,450) (1,237)GSK Annual Report 2007 I 131
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt continued
At 31.12.06 Exchange Other Acquisitions Cash flow at 31.12.07
analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 1,035 79 – – 39 1,153
Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 56 – 60 1,258 3,379
Overdrafts (243) (8) – – 93 (158)
1,762 48 – 60 1,351 3,221
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper – – – – (2,064) (2,064)
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes (255) 3 (1,233) – 252 (1,233)
Other (220) (12) (1) – 184 (49)
(475) (9) (1,234) – (1,628) (3,346)
Debt due after one year:
Eurobonds, Medium-Term Notes and
private financing (4,659) (204) 1,173 – (3,282) (6,972)
Other (113) (2) (21) – 41 (95)
(4,772) (206) 1,152 – (3,241) (7,067)
Net debt (2,450) (88) (82) 60 (3,479) (6,039)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 32 ‘Net debt’.
38 acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2007
Acquisitions
Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc.
On 18th December 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc., a pharmaceutical company
based in the USA for a cash consideration of £814 million. The company specialises in the development and marketing of speciality medicines
to combat heart disease which includes the US rights to Lovaza, a treatment for adult patients with very high levels of triglycerides. This
transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the potential for
product growth throughout the USA and Puerto Rico and the expected synergies for the Group. Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc. had a turnover
of £276 million and a profit after tax of £8 million for the year, of which £8 million of turnover and £1 million of profit after tax related to the
period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts. The fair values set out below are based on provisional valuations and may
be subject to change in the future.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 13 600 613
Property, plant and equipment 2 4 6
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 80 16 96
Deferred tax provision – (175) (175)
Other liabilities (75) (1) (76)
20 444 464
Goodwill – 350 350
Total consideration 20 794 814132 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
38 acquisitions and disposals continued
Domantis Limited
On 5th January 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Domantis Limited, a drug discovery company based in the
UK for a cash consideration of £234 million. The company is developing the next generation of antibody therapies. This transaction has
been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the potential for combining the
world-leading technology of Domantis with the development programme already in place within GSK to put the Group at the forefront of
biotechnology. Domantis Limited had a turnover of £nil and a loss after tax of £10 million for the year, of which £nil of turnover and £9 million
of loss after tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 51 51
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 19 – 19
Deferred tax provision – (14) (14)
Other liabilities (4) – (4)
16 37 53
Goodwill – 181 181
Total consideration 16 218 234
Praecis Pharmaceuticals Inc.
On 16th February 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Praecis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company
based in the USA for a cash consideration of £39 million. The company has developed a more efficient method of identifying drug leads
targeting human disease using proprietary technology. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. Praecis
Pharmaceuticals Inc. had a turnover of £nil and a loss after tax of £11 million for the year, of which £nil of turnover and £9 million of loss after
tax related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 7 7
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 25 – 25
Deferred tax asset – 10 10
Other liabilities (6) – (6)
20 17 37
Goodwill – 2 2
Total consideration 20 19 39
Reliant Domantis Praecis Other Total
cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 814 234 39 1 1,088
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (20) (16) (24) – (60)
Net cash payment on acquisitions 794 218 15 1 1,028
If Reliant, Domantis and Praecis had been acquired at the beginning of the year, combined Group turnover for the year would have been
£22,984 million and combined Group profit for the year would have been £5,314 million.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 133
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
38 acquisitions and disposals continued
2006
Acquisitions
CNS, Inc.
On 19th December 2006, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of CNS, Inc., a consumer healthcare company based in
the USA for a cash consideration of £280 million. The company markets Breathe Right nasal dilator strips and FiberChoice dietary fibre
supplements. These are the key intangible assets acquired and have been valued using a discounted cash flow calculation. This transaction
has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects the potential for expansion
of the brands into other overseas markets and the expected synergies for the Group. CNS, Inc. had a turnover of £71 million (2005 – £60
million) and a profit of £11 million (2005 – profit £9 million) for 2006 of which £2 million of turnover and £nil of profit related to the period
since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 4 203 207
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 44 – 44
Deferred tax provision – (77) (77)
Other liabilities (7) – (7)
42 126 168
Goodwill – 112 112
Total consideration 42 238 280
Euclid SR Partners, LP
During 2006, an additional £5 million was invested in Euclid SR Partners, LP, an associate in which the Group has a 38.7% share.
Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Ltd
During 2006, an additional £8 million was invested in Shionogi GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Ltd, a joint venture in which the Group has
a 50% share.
Pliva Research Institute Ltd.
In May 2006, the Group purchased the entire share capital of the Pliva Research Institute Ltd. for a cash consideration of £26 million, of this
amount £8 million is deferred, with payment being made when phase I clinical trials are initiated.
GlaxoSmithKline K.K.
In August 2006, a Japanese subsidiary of the Group made a cash payment of £150 million to complete the purchase of the remaining 15%
of the share capital held by the minority shareholder. This payment was preceded in the year by a dividend to the minority shareholders of
£7 million representing additional consideration.
Shionogi Pliva
Euclid SR GlaxoSmithKline Research GlaxoSmith-
CNS Partners, LP Holdings, Ltd Institute Kline K.K. Other Total
cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 280 5 8 18 157 – 468
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (24) – – (1) – – (25)
Net cash payment on acquisitions 256 5 8 17 157 – 443
Net cash proceeds from disposals – – – – – (5) (5)134 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
38 acquisitions and disposals continued
2005
Acquisitions
ID Biomedical Corporation
On 8th December 2005, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of ID Biomedical Corporation, a biotechnology company based
in Canada specialising in the development and manufacture of vaccines, particularly influenza vaccines, for a cash consideration of £874
million. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition results from
benefits which cannot be separately quantified and recorded, including immediate access to additional ‘flu vaccines manufacturing capacity,
particularly in the event of a pandemic, a skilled workforce and good relations with the US and Canadian governments regarding the supply
of ‘flu vaccines. ID Biomedical Corporation had a turnover of £30 million (2004 – £23 million) and a loss of £83 million (2004 – loss £17
million) for the year, of which £1 million of turnover and £11 million of loss related to the period since acquisition and are included in the
Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 15 686 701
Property, plant and equipment 88 – 88
Other assets 74 23 97
Deferred tax provision – (225) (225)
Other liabilities (136) (8) (144)
41 476 517
Goodwill – 357 357
Total consideration 41 833 874
The total consideration included directly attributable costs of £3 million.
Corixa Corporation
On 12th July 2005, the Group acquired 92% of the issued share capital of Corixa Corporation, a biotechnology company specialising in
developing vaccine adjuvants and immunology based products, for a cash consideration of £150 million. This investment increased the Group’s
holding in Corixa to 100%. The Group had a number of business relationships with Corixa prior to the acquisition date, principally in relation
to an adjuvant developed by Corixa and used in some of the Group’s vaccines. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase
method of accounting. The existing 8% investment in Corixa, with a book value of £12 million, was previously classified as an available-for-sale
investment and now forms part of the investment in the subsidiary. The existing 8% of the issued share capital had been acquired, in previous
years, for a cash consideration of £24 million. Corixa Corporation had a turnover of £3 million and a loss of £49 million for the year, of which
£1 million of turnover and £24 million of loss related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 115 115
Other assets 91 29 120
Other liabilities (95) (4) (99)
(4) 140 136
Goodwill – 26 26
Existing investment (12) – (12)
Total consideration (16) 166 150
The total consideration included directly attributable costs of £1 million.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 135
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
38 acquisitions and disposals continued
Euclid SR Partners, LP
During 2005, an additional £2 million was invested in Euclid SR Partners, LP, an associate in which the Group has a 38.7% interest.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited
In April 2005, an Indian subsidiary of the Group purchased 3.16% of the share capital held by minority shareholders, for a cash consideration
of £16 million.
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited
In May and June 2005, an Indian subsidiary of the Group purchased 1.52% of the share capital held by minority shareholders, for a cash
consideration of £26 million.
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Limited
During 2005, a Chinese subsidiary of the Group purchased all of the share capital held by minority shareholders for a cash consideration
of £4 million.
Disposals
Ideapharm SA
In December 2005, the Group disposed of Ideapharm SA, a subsidiary located in Romania, for cash proceeds of £3 million, which were received
in January 2006. The net assets disposed of in the year included cash of £2 million.
Aseptic Technologies S.A.
In April 2005, the Group disposed of 16.22% of Aseptic Technologies S.A. to Societe Regionale d’Investissement de Wallonie S.A. for cash
proceeds of £10 million.
GSK GSK GSK
Biologicals Aseptic Pharma- Consumer Euclid ID
cash flows (Shanghai) Tech. ceuticals Healthcare Ideapharm SR Corixa Biomedical
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Total
Cash consideration 4 – 26 16 – 2 150 874 1,072
Cash and cash equivalents acquired – – – – – – (7) 9 2
Net cash payment on acquisitions 4 – 26 16 – 2 143 883 1,074
Cash and cash equivalents disposed – – – – 2 – – – 2
Net cash proceeds from disposals – 10 – – – – – – 10136 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
39 commitments
2007 2006
contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 5,730 3,219
Plant, property and equipment 597 521
Investments 65 196
Purchase commitments 159 299
Business combinations – 258
Pensions 650 975
Theravance put option agreement – 258
Other commitments 32 65
Interest on loans 5,170 2,875
Finance lease charges 14 21
12,417 8,687
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development and which
represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones are achieved. A number of commitments were made in 2007 under licensing
and other agreements, including arrangements with Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Santaris Pharma A/S and
Targacept, Inc.
In 2006, GSK formalised an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions of up to £325 million per
year, in addition to the normal contributions, over a four-year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the then pension deficits
on an IAS 19 basis by that point. The table above shows this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement of
approximately £200 million. GSK has also committed to eliminate any future deficits that may arise over a rolling five-year period. No other
commitments have been made past 31st December 2009.
At 31st December 2006, the Group was party to a put option agreement whereby Theravance’s shareholders could sell up to half of their
Theravance shares to GSK at a pre-determined price ($19.375). Given the maximum number of shares subject to the put option, the Group’s
obligation was capped at $525 million. The put option expired unexercised in August 2007.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
2007 2006
commitments under operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 101 94
Rental payments due between one and two years 76 74
Rental payments due between two and three years 58 55
Rental payments due between three and four years 41 41
Rental payments due between four and five years 33 33
Rental payments due after five years 51 77
Total commitments under operating leases 360 374
40 Post balance sheet events
On 25th January 2008, the FDA issued a not approvable letter in respect of Merck’s NDA seeking approval for over-the-counter Mevacor. This
triggered repayment to GSK of the upfront fee GSK had paid to Merck in 2007 for the US OTC rights.
On 18th February 2008, GSK’s long-term Standard and Poor’s debt rating was revised from AA with negative outlook to A+ stable. Standard
and Poor’s also revised GSK’s short-term rating for paper issued under the Group’s commercial paper programme from A-1+ to A-1.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 137
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
41 financial instruments and related disclosures Liquidity risk
The Group manages its net borrowing requirements through a
GlaxoSmithKline plc reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of
portfolio of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together with
sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury in GSK is to manage
short-term finance under the US$10 billion commercial paper
and monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirements
programme. At 31st December 2007, the Group also had $5 billion
and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives. Treasury
committed undrawn bank facilities.
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the
Board of Directors, most recently on 5th October 2007. The Group has a European Medium Term Note programme of £10
billion, of which £7.2 billion was in issue as at 31st December 2007
A Treasury Management Group (TMG) chaired by the Group’s
and a US Shelf Registration of $5 billion; at 31st December 2007,
Chief Financial Officer, meets on a monthly basis to review treasury
$2.0 billion (£1.0 billion) was in issue. The TMG monitors the cashflow
activities. Its members receive management information relating to
forecast of GSK on a monthly basis.
treasury activity. The Corporate Executive Team (CET) also review a
monthly finance report which focuses on operational finance issues. The Group’s long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2008 and
The Group’s internal auditors review the Treasury internal control 2042. On 18th February 2008 GSK’s long-term Standard and Poor’s
environment regularly. debt rating was revised from AA with negative outlook to A+ stable.
At this time, Standard and Poor’s also revised GSK’s short-term rating
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments, including derivatives,
for paper issued under the Group’s commercial paper programme from
to finance its operations and to manage market risks from those
A-1+ to A-1. Moody’s Investors’ Services rate GSK as A1 with negative
operations. Derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign
outlook for long-term debt and P-1 for short-term debt. There has been
currency contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are used to
no change to GSK’s rating from Moody’s since 25th July 2007.
swap borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group
purposes and to manage exposure to funding risks from changes in In the light of likely increased commercial paper issuance resulting
foreign exchange rates and interest rates. from the increased share buy-back programme, GSK has increased its
committed bank facilities from $900 million to $5 billion. In addition,
GSK does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
the Group maintains substantial cash and liquid investments which at
speculative purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies specifically
31st December 2007 amounted to £4.5 billion.
prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial instruments are
undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business Market risk
activities, not for speculation. Interest rate risk management
GSK’s policy on interest rate risk management requires the minimum
Capital management
amount of net borrowings at fixed rates to increase with the ratio of
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt (see Note
forecast interest payable to trading profit. The fixed to floating ratio
32, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity (see Note 34, ‘Movements
is reviewed monthly by the TMG.
in equity’). The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in
the Group are able to operate as going concerns and to optimise The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to
return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and redenominate external borrowings into the interest rate coupon
equity. In July 2007, GSK announced an increased share buy-back required for Group purposes. The duration of these swaps matches
programme of £12 billion over the period to July 2009 which will the duration of the principal instruments. Interest rate derivative
result in substantially increased borrowings. The Board reviews the instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash flow hedges of
Group’s dividend policy and funding requirements annually. the relevant assets or liabilities.
GSK operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies Foreign exchange risk management
established in the markets in which the Group trades. With Foreign currency transaction exposure arising on normal trade flows,
significant levels of patent and trademark protection the Group’s in respect of both external and intra-Group trade, is not hedged.
products compete largely on product efficacy rather than on price. The exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to transaction risk
Selling margins are sufficient to cover normal operating costs and the is minimised by matching local currency income with local currency
Group’s operating subsidiaries are generally cash generative. None costs. For this purpose, intra-Group trading transactions are matched
of the entities in the Group is subject to externally imposed capital centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed to reduce risk.
requirements. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged selectively under
the management of Corporate Treasury.
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in research and
development of new products as well as to make the routine The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or borrowing
outflows of capital expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward contracts to
maturing debt. hedge future repayments back into the originating currency.
The Group’s policy is to borrow centrally, using a variety of capital The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of its
market issues and borrowing facilities, to meet anticipated funding principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in
requirements. US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings are swapped into
other currencies as required for Group purposes.
These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations, are
on-lent within the Group, contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries
or used to fund the Group’s £12 billion share buy-back programme.138 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
41 financial instruments and related disclosures Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
continued The table on page 139 presents the carrying amounts and the fair
values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31st December
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
2007 and 31st December 2006.
that match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a
hedge against the relevant assets. The ratio of borrowings to assets The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
is reviewed by currency on a month by month basis by the TMG. at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or
Credit risk
liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be £8,529 million
to estimate the fair values:
(2006 – £7,848 million) which is the total of the Group’s financial
assets with the exception of ’Other investments’ which do not bear • Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying
credit risk, and US treasury bills, bonds and notes, classified within amount
cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments. • L iquid investments – based on quoted market prices in the case of
marketable securities; based on principal amounts in the case of
US treasury bills, bonds and notes are held both directly and through
non-marketable securities because of their short repricing periods
US Treasuries–only money market funds and bear credit exposure to
the US government. See page 139 for details on the Group’s total • Other investments – investments traded in an active market
financial assets. determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted
bid price; other investments determined by reference to the
Treasury-related credit risk
current market value of similar instruments or by reference to the
In 2007, credit risk increased following the global sub-prime crisis. GSK
discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets
has suffered no loss of investment principal as a result of this crisis. The
• S hort-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
Group invests centrally managed liquid assets in government bonds,
amount because of the short maturity of these instruments
short-term corporate debt instruments with a minimum short-term
credit rating of A-1/P-1, bank deposits, Treasuries-only money market • L ong-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the case of
funds with a credit rating of AAA/Aaa (Standard and Poor’s/Moody’s the Eurobonds and other fixed rate borrowings; approximates to
Investors’ Services) and other structured investments. the carrying amount in the case of floating rate bank loans and
other loans
A report on relationship banks and their credit ratings is presented
• Forward exchange contracts – based on market prices and exchange
annually to the TMG for approval.
rates at the balance sheet date
The aggregate credit risk in respect of financial instruments the
• Currency swaps – based on market data at the balance sheet date
Group may have with one counterparty is limited by reference to the
long-term credit ratings assigned for that counterparty by Moody’s • Q uest equity collar and Theravance put and call options – based
and Standard and Poor’s. on a Black-Scholes option pricing model which uses assumptions in
respect of price volatility, dividend yield and interest rates
Wholesale and retail credit risk
• I nterest rate swaps – based on the net present value of discounted
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group
cash flows
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition to
hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the three • Receivables and payables – approximates to the carrying amount
largest wholesalers amount to approximately 85% of the Group’s US • Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount
pharmaceutical sales. At 31st December 2007, the Group had trade
receivables due from these three wholesalers totalling £915 million Fair value of investments in GSK shares
(2006 – £1,044 million). The Group is exposed to a concentration of At 31st December 2007, the ESOP Trusts held GSK shares with a
credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more of carrying value of £1,617 million (2006 – £1, 999 million) with a fair
them encounters financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely value of £1,721 million (2006 – £2,062 million) based on quoted
affect the Group’s financial results. market price. The shares represent purchases by the ESOP Trusts
to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these wholesalers incentive schemes. The carrying value, which is the lower of cost
includes review of their quarterly financial information and Standard or expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a
& Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal risk ratings, and deduction from other reserves. At 31st December 2007, GSK held
establishment and periodic review of credit limits. However, the Group Treasury shares at a cost of £6,683 million (2006 – £3,147 million)
believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of which has been deducted from retained earnings.
the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts (see Note 24, Trade
and other receivables’). Outside the USA no customers account for Committed facilities
more than 5% of the trade receivables balance. The Group has committed facilities to back up the commercial paper
programme of $5 billion (£2.5 billion) (2006 – $900 million (£459
million)) of 364 days duration, renewable annually. At 31st December
2007, undrawn committed facilities totalled $5 billion (£2.5 billion)
(2006 – $900 million (£459 million)).GSK Annual Report 2007 I 139
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
41 financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2007 2006
carrying fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
£m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 3,379 2,005 2,005
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments:
– redeemable shares 736 736 676 676
– government bonds 205 205 197 197
– other 212 212 162 162
Total liquid investments 1,153 1,153 1,035 1,035
Other investments 517 517 441 441
Loans and receivables:
Trade and other receivables and Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 5,317 5,317 4,776 4,776
Held-for-trading financial assets:
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges 175 175 167 167
Other derivatives 301 301 26 26
Total financial assets 10,842 10,842 8,450 8,450
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship (5,452) (5,433) (2,980) (2,951)
– other bonds (2,753) (2,599) (1,727) (1,768)
– commercial paper (2,064) (2,064) – –
– bank loans and overdrafts (171) (171) (421) (421)
– other loans and private financing (8) (8) (223) (233)
– obligations under finance leases (123) (123) (139) (139)
Total borrowings (10,571) (10,398) (5,490) (5,512)
Trade and other payables and Other non-current
liabilities in scope of IAS 39 (4,450) (4,450) (4,609) (4,609)
Held-for-trading financial liabilities:
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges (226) (226) (51) (51)
Other derivatives (44) (44) (49) (49)
Total financial liabilities (15,291) (15,118) (10,199) (10,221)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (4,449) (4,276) (1,749) (1,771)notes to the financial statements
continued
41 financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant
balance sheet amounts. Other assets include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of
IAS 39. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning.
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade and other receivables (Note 24) 5,495 5,237
Other non-current assets (Note 22) 687 608
6,182 5,845
Analysed as:
Financial assets in scope of IAS 39 5,317 4,776
Other assets 865 1,069
6,182 5,845
The following table shows the age of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has been
raised:
2007 2006
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 288 156
Past due by 31–90 days 101 132
Past due by 91–180 days 97 103
Past due by 181–365 days 108 92
Past due by more than 365 days 214 132
808 615
Amounts past due by greater than 90 days total £419 million (2006 – £327 million). Of this balance £315 million (2006 – £213 million) relates
to receivables due from state hospital authorities in certain European countries. The Group has not raised bad or doubtful debt provisions
against these amounts as they are considered to be recoverable.
Trade and other payables and Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles Trade and other payables and Other non-current liabilities which fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the
relevant balance sheet amounts. Other liabilities include payments on account and tax and social security payables, which are outside the
scope of IAS 39. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing.
2007 2006
£m £m
Trade and other payables (Note 27) (4,861) (4,831)
Other non-current liabilities (Note 30) (368) (346)
(5,229) (5,177)
Analysed as:
Financial liabilities in scope of IAS 39 (4,450) (4,609)
Other liabilities (779) (568)
(5,229) (5,177)
140 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoNnotes to the financial statements
continued
41 financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt before and after the effect of interest rate swaps. The maturity
analysis of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this
table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2007 2006
effect of Effect of
interest interest
Debt rate swaps total Debt rate swaps Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (3,455) (746) (4,201) (895) (1,883) (2,778)
Between one and two years (369) – (369) (1,166) 1,164 (2)
Between two and three years (1) – (1) (339) – (339)
Between three and four years (1) – (1) (1) – (1)
Between four and five years (2,194) – (2,194) – – –
Greater than five years (4,409) 746 (3,663) (2,948) 719 (2,229)
Total (10,429) – (10,429) (5,349) – (5,349)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (8,204) 1,979 (6,225) (4,721) 2,138 (2,583)
Floating rate interest (2,225) (1,979) (4,204) (628) (2,138) (2,766)
Total interest bearing (10,429) – (10,429) (5,349) – (5,349)
Non-interest bearing (19) – (19) (2) – (2)
(10,448) – (10,448) (5,351) – (5,351)
Sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the
debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge
designations in place at 31st December.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments. The following analyses are
intended to illustrate the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in relevant foreign exchange and interest rates.
foreign exchange sensitivity
The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates on its US dollar, Euro and Yen financial instruments excluding trade
payables, trade receivables, other non-derivative financial instruments not in net debt and obligations under finance leases, which do not
present a material exposure. These three currencies are the major currencies in which GSK’s financial instruments are denominated. GSK
has considered movements in these currencies over the last two years and has concluded that a 10% movement in rates is a reasonable
benchmark. In this table, financial instruments are only considered sensitive to foreign exchange rates where they are not in the functional
currency of the entity that holds them. Intercompany loans which are fully hedged to maturity with a currency swap have been excluded
from this analysis.
2007 2006
increase Reduction Increase Reduction
in income in equity in income in equity
£m £m £m £m
10% appreciation of the US dollar 38 580 35 195
10% appreciation of the Euro 1 709 – 436
10% appreciation of the Yen – 15 – 14
A 10% depreciation of the stated currencies would have an equal and opposite effect.
The movements in the income statement relate primarily to the hedging instrument for a US dollar legal provision. Whilst this is an economic
hedge, the provision is not a financial instrument and therefore is not included in the table above.
The movements in equity relate to foreign exchange positions used to hedge Group assets denominated in US dollar, Euro and Yen. Therefore,
a depreciation on the currency swap would give rise to a corresponding appreciation on the Group asset. Foreign exchange sensitivity on
Group assets other than financial instruments is not included above.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 141
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN142 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
41 financial instruments and related disclosures continued
interest rate sensitivity
The table below shows the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates on its floating rate Sterling, US dollar and Euro financial instruments, being the
currencies in which GSK has historically issued debt and held investments. GSK has considered movements in these interest rates over the last
two years and has concluded that a 1% increase is a reasonable benchmark. Debt with a maturity of less than one year is floating rate for
this calculation. A 1% movement in interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2007 2006
increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
£m £m
1% increase in Sterling interest rates 1 3
1% increase in US dollar interest rates (16) (8)
1% increase in Euro interest rates 3 2
A 1% decrease in these interest rates would have an equal and opposite effect. Interest rate movements on obligations under finance leases,
foreign currency and interest rate derivatives, trade payables, trade receivables and other financial instruments not in net debt do not present
a material exposure to the Group’s balance sheet based on a 1% increase or decrease in these interest rates.
Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following is an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities
on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings except for obligations under finance leases.
Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31st December without taking account of future issuance. Floating rate interest is estimated using
the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31st December.
Finance charge Trade and
Obligations on obligations other
Interest on under finance under finance payables not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt total
at 31st December 2007 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due less than one year (3,466) (412) (40) (5) (4,330) (8,253)
Between one and two years (368) (339) (37) (3) (75) (822)
Between two and three years (10) (327) (24) (2) (15) (378)
Between three and four years – (327) (9) (2) (3) (341)
Between four and five years (2,206) (327) (4) (1) (1) (2,539)
Greater than five years (4,478) (3,563) (9) (1) (26) (8,077)
Gross contractual cash flows (10,528) (5,295) (123) (14) (4,450) (20,410)
Finance charge Trade
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance payables not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
at 31st December 2006 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due less than one year (677) (209) (42) (7) (4,534) (5,469)
Between one and two years (1,179) (205) (36) (5) (55) (1,480)
Between two and three years (339) (158) (27) (3) (15) (542)
Between three and four years (11) (147) (15) (3) (2) (178)
Between four and five years – (147) (7) (1) – (155)
Greater than five years (3,242) (2,082) (12) (2) (3) (5,341)
Gross contractual cash flows (5,448) (2,948) (139) (21) (4,609) (13,165)
The following table provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments, excluding embedded
derivatives and equity options, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31st December.
2007 2006
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Less than one year 23,784 (23,630) 13,980 (13,988)
Between one and two years 389 (323) 536 (428)
Between two and three years 10 (14) 350 (304)
Between three and four years 34 (39) 1 (9)
Between four and five years 216 (246) 24 (32)
Greater than five years – (5) – (21)
Gross contractual cash flows 24,433 (24,257) 14,891 (14,782)GSK Annual Report 2007 I 143
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
41 financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the principal amounts and fair values of derivatives held by GSK.
2007 2006
fair value Fair value
Principal Principal
amount assets liabilities amount Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges:
Cross currency swaps 368 57 – 338 44 –
Fair value hedges:
Interest rate swaps 1,989 7 (6) 2,196 6 (51)
Net investment hedges:
Foreign exchange contracts (9,553) – (220) (5,049) 11 –
Cross currency swaps 388 111 – 394 106 –
Derivatives designated as accounting hedges (6,808) 175 (226) (2,121) 167 (51)
Foreign exchange contracts 10,156 287 (40) 5,510 9 (25)
Equity related instruments:
Options and warrants 4 4 – 407 13 (12)
Equity collar 532 7 (2) 270 – (12)
Embedded derivatives 92 3 (2) 43 4 –
Other derivatives 10,784 301 (44) 6,230 26 (49)
Total derivative instruments 3,976 476 (270) 4,109 193 (100)
Analysed as:
Current 475 (262) 80 (40)
Non-current 1 (8) 113 (60)
Total 476 (270) 193 (100)
Derivative financial instruments
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is calculated based on outstanding positions at the balance sheet date, calculated
net by currency and buy/sell side position. The majority of contracts are for periods of 12 months or less.
Included in ‘Equity related instruments’ above are variable sale forward contracts in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. and various equity warrants.
At 31st December 2006 the Group also held put and call options in Theravance, Inc. Further information on the Quest and Theravance
derivatives is provided below.
In 2002, GSK hedged part of the equity value of its holdings in Quest, an associated undertaking, through a series of variable sale forward
contracts. The contracts (‘the equity collar’) were renewed in 2006 and are structured in five series, each over two million Quest shares,
and mature between 2010 and 2012. The fair value of the contracts at 31st December 2007 was a liability of $4 million (£2 million) (2006
– $24 million (£12 million)). A second series of hedging contracts over an additional 10 million shares was entered into on 15th February
2007. These contracts are also structured in five series, each over two million Quest shares, and mature between 2013 and 2015. The fair
value of the contracts at 31st December 2007 was an asset of $15 million (£7 million).
At 31st December 2006 the Group held a put option agreement whereby Theravance’s shareholders could sell up to half of their Theravance
shares to GSK at a pre-determined price. At 31st December 2006, this option was recorded as a liability of $19 million (£10 million). This
option expired unexercised in August 2007.
At 31st December 2006, the Group held a call option agreement whereby it could purchase half of the outstanding Theravance shares in
issue at a pre-determined price. At 31st December 2006, this option was recorded as an asset of $15 million (£8 million). This option expired
unexercised in July 2007.
At 31st December 2007, the Group held outstanding foreign exchange contracts consisting primarily of currency swaps with a total fair
value of £247 million (2006 – £16 million liability) which represent hedges of intercompany loans and deposits, but are not designated as
accounting hedges. Changes in fair value are taken to profit and loss in the period to offset the exchange gains and losses on the related
inter-company lending and borrowing.144 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
41 financial instruments and related disclosures 42 employee share schemes
continued
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are
Cash flow hedges granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
The Group has entered into a cross currency swap and designated it at the grant price, savings-related share option schemes and share
a cash flow hedge converting fixed Euro interest, payable annually, to award schemes, whereby awards are granted to employees to
fixed Yen payments. The bond matures in 2009. The risk being hedged acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject
is the variability of cash flows arising from currency fluctuations. No to the achievement by the Group of specified performance targets.
ineffectiveness is assumed on the hedge. In 2004, the Group introduced a new share award scheme, the Share
Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire
All cash flows relating to the hedge are expected to occur within the
shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year
next two years. The amounts recognised in equity are recycled to
vesting period. The granting of restricted share awards has replaced
the income statement to offset the exchange gains or losses in the
the granting of options to certain employees as the cost of the
same period on the underlying bond as a result of revaluation at the
scheme more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by
balance sheet date.
the employee.
The amount recognised in equity in 2007 for cross currency interest
Grants under share option schemes are normally exercisable between
rate swaps was £10 million credit (2006 – £30 million credit). The
three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants of restricted shares
amount recycled from equity to the income statement in 2007 for
and share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three
cross currency interest rate swaps to offset the exchange loss on the
year vesting/performance period. Grants under savings-related share
underlying bond recognised in the income statement was £14 million
option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving.
(2006 – £32 million). The net fair value movements on cash flow
Options under the share option schemes are granted at the market
hedges are disclosed in the Consolidated statement of recognised
price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK practice, the
income and expense.
majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes
Fair value hedges are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling at the
The Group has designated interest rate swaps and the interest date of grant.
element of one of its two cross currency swaps as a fair value hedge.
Share options awarded to the Directors and, with effect from the
The risk being hedged is the variability of the fair value of the bonds
2004 grant, the CET are subject to performance criteria.
arising from interest rate fluctuations. Gains and losses on fair value
hedges are disclosed in Note 12, ‘Finance costs’.
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts and the currency element of one of
the Group’s two cross currency swaps have been designated as net
investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency translation risk
principally arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment
in its US dollar, Euro and Yen foreign operations. In addition, Euro
loan capital issued during the year of €3.5 billion, and €750 million
from previous years, has been designated as a non-monetary net
investment hedge in respect of the foreign currency translation risk
principally arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in
its Euro operations. Net investment hedge ineffectiveness is disclosed
in Note 11, ‘Finance income’.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 145
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
42 employee share schemes continued
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the stock-based compensation charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model for 2005, 2006 and 2007 are as follows:
2007 2006 2005
Risk-free interest rate 4.7% – 5.3% 4.2% – 5.0% 4.0% – 4.8%
Dividend yield 4.0% 3.3% 3.0%
Volatility 17% – 25% 18% – 29% 21% – 28%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years 5 years
Savings-related share option schemes 3 years 3 years 3 years
Weighted average share price for grants in the year:
Ordinary shares £14.41 £14.64 £13.15
ADSs $57.59 $51.40 $47.42
Volatility was determined based on the three year share price history. The fair value of performance share plan grants take into account market
conditions. Expected lives of options were determined based on weighted average historic exercises of options.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes - shares schemes - ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 1st January 2005 197,781 £14.92 110,479 $46.57 10,141 £9.44
Options granted 516 £12.57 £2.76 956 $45.66 $9.90 5,167 £11.45 £3.68
Options exercised (10,483) £9.91 (7,537) $38.83 (5,732) £9.16
Options lapsed (20,888) £17.16 (8,306) $50.26 (810) £11.02
At 31st December 2005 166,926 £14.97 95,592 $46.86 8,766 £10.66
Options granted 9,776 £14.78 £3.53 7,940 $51.36 $11.59 2,069 £11.40 £3.41
Options exercised (13,244) £11.66 (13,310) $41.78 (2,009) £9.48
Options lapsed (6,755) £15.35 (1,791) $46.88 (653) £10.97
At 31st December 2006 156,703 £15.22 88,431 $48.02 8,173 £11.11
Options granted 10,587 £14.82 £3.07 8,624 $57.58 $10.93 3,212 £10.50 £2.87
Options exercised (9,863) £12.10 (18,149) $44.27 (1,140) £9.74
Options lapsed (8,386) £15.64 (1,632) $50.90 (1,707) £11.33
At 31st December 2007 149,041 £15.38 77,274 $49.91 8,538 £11.02
Range of exercise prices £10.76 – £19.77 $37.09 – $61.35 £9.52 – £11.45
Weighted average remaining
contractual life 4.32 years 5.14 years 2.2 years146 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
42 employee share schemes continued
In order to encourage employees to convert options, excluding savings-related share options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline
Beecham shares or ADSs, into those over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit of
10% of the exercise price of the original option provided that the employee did not voluntarily leave the Group for two years from the date of
the merger and did not exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option and two years from the
date of the merger. The cash benefit will also be paid if the options expire unexercised if the market price is below the exercise price on the date
of expiry.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
at 31st December 2007 schemes - shares schemes - ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number Exercise exercise
Year of grant 000 price date 000 price date 000 price date
1998 13,609 £16.91 23.11.08 4,137 $54.42 23.11.08 – – –
1999 14,477 £18.19 01.12.09 6,695 $60.18 24.11.09 – – –
2000 14,012 £14.90 11.09.10 310 $58.88 09.08.10 – – –
2001 39,870 £18.12 28.11.11 23,532 $51.84 28.11.11 – – –
2002 16,817 £11.96 03.12.12 6,712 $37.64 03.12.12 – – –
2003 22,151 £12.67 15.12.13 11,877 $43.54 15.12.13 – – –
2004 8,273 £11.23 03.12.14 7,664 $43.19 02.12.14 307 £9.52 31.05.08
2005 195 £13.06 01.11.15 439 $47.33 01.11.15 3,689 £11.45 31.05.09
2006 9,245 £14.69 28.11.16 7,445 $51.29 28.07.16 1,373 £11.40 31.05.10
2007 10,392 £14.81 25.07.17 8,463 $57.58 25.07.17 3,169 £10.50 31.05.11
Total 149,041 £15.38 77,274 $49.91 8,538 £11.02
All of the above options are exercisable, except all options over shares and ADSs granted in 2005, 2006 and 2007 and the savings-related
share options granted in 2005, 2006 and 2007.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings-related
at 31st December 2007 schemes - shares schemes - ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31st December 2005 128,316 £15.77 64,265 $48.56 1,429 £9.16
At 31st December 2006 137,983 £15.51 71,238 $48.32 179 £10.20
At 31st December 2007 129,209 £15.47 60,927 $48.70 307 £9.52GSK Annual Report 2007 I 147
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
42 employee share schemes continued
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Performance Share Plan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a three year measurement period. The performance conditions consist
of two parts, each of which applies to 50% of the award. For awards granted in 2003, the first part of the condition compares GSK’s Total
Shareholder Return (TSR) over the period with the TSR of companies in the UK FTSE 100 Index over the same period. For awards granted in
2004, and subsequent years, the first part of the condition compares GSK’s TSR over the period with the TSR of 13 pharmaceutical companies
in the comparator group over the same period. For all awards, the second part of the performance condition compares GSK’s earnings per
share growth to the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over the three year performance period. Awards granted to Directors and members
of the CET from 15th December 2003 are subject to a single performance condition which compares GSK’s TSR over the period with the TSR
of companies in the comparator group over the same period.
Shares Weighted ADSs Weighted
number of shares and aDss issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2005 4,349 3,355
Awards granted 130 £9.02 88 $32.34
Awards exercised (375) (199)
Awards cancelled (477) (237)
At 31st December 2005 3,627 3,007
Awards granted 2,068 £10.06 1,452 $35.13
Awards exercised (438) (187)
Awards cancelled (501) (238)
At 31st December 2006 4,756 4,034
Awards granted 2,071 £10.26 1,501 $34.87
Awards exercised (147) (77)
Awards cancelled (949) (1,131)
At 31st December 2007 5,731 4,327
Share Value Plan
The Group operates a Share Value Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of shares, to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest
after three years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADSs Weighted
number of shares and aDss issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2005 4,419 3,562
Awards granted 403 £12.00 511 $44.39
Awards exercised (138) (143)
Awards cancelled (170) (81)
At 31st December 2005 4,514 3,849
Awards granted 4,759 £13.45 4,126 $52.53
Awards exercised (131) (66)
Awards cancelled (348) (280)
At 31st December 2006 8,794 7,629
Awards granted 5,155 £13.22 4,231 $52.08
Awards exercised (3,643) (3,038)
Awards cancelled (672) (539)
At 31st December 2007 9,634 8,283148 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanfi
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
42 employee share schemes continued
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards made
under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts purchase shares
on the open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. Costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to
the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the value of proceeds receivable from
employees on exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanent diminution in value this is reflected by a transfer to retained earnings. The Trusts
also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive
Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
shares held for share award schemes 2007 2006
Number of shares (‘000) 45,247 37,508
£m £m
Nominal value 11 9
Carrying value 242 196
Market value 579 504
shares held for share option schemes 2007 2006
Number of shares (‘000) 89,283 115,943
£m £m
Nominal value 22 29
Carrying value 1,375 1,803
Market value 1,142 1,558GSK Annual Report 2007 I 149
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
43 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31st December 2007. Details
are given of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business segment and the business activities. The equity
share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are
incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
europe Location Subsidiary Segment Activity %
England Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited Ph,CH s
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ph f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham p.l.c. Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Greenford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Greenford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (i) Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome Investments B.V. (i) Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph d r
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ph m p
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ph,CH f
Brentford Setfirst Limited Ph,CH h
Greenford The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ph p
Cambridge Domantis Limited Ph d r
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ph h
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Holdings (UK) Limited Ph h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline (Netherlands) B.V. (i) Ph h
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma G.m.b.H Ph m
Belgium Genval GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d e m p r
Czech Republic Prague GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ph,CH m
Denmark Orestadt GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph m r d
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ph p
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH m
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG CH d h m p r s
Munich GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Ph d h m p r s
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH m
Guernsey St. Peter Port Setfirst (No.2) Limited Ph,CH h
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKline Medicine and Healthcare Products Limited Ph,CH e m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d h m r
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. CH h m
Verona GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing S.p.A. Ph p
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) S.A. Ph,CH f h
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Utrecht GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. CH m150 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
43 Principal Group companies continued
europe Location Subsidiary Segment Activity %
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph p 97
Poznan GSK Services Sp.z.o.o Ph m
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. CH m e
Portugal Alges GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ph m
Republic of Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (ii) Ph p r
Ireland Cork GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (ii) Ph e
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (ii) CH m
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited Ph m
Russian Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Ph m
Federation Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare ZAO CH m
Spain Madrid GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Madrid GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. CH m
Aranda de Duero Glaxo Wellcome S.A. Ph p
Sweden Solna GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
Usa
USA Hamilton Corixa Corporation Ph m p
Pittsburgh CNS, Inc. CH m
Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Corporation Ph,CH d e h m p r s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m p 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc. CH h m
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Ph,CH h
Liberty Corner Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Ph m r
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Ph f
americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Ph m p r
Oakville GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. CH m
Laval ID Biomedical Corporation Ph d m p r
Laval ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Ph d m p r
asia Pacific
Australia Boronia GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ph d m p r 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph m p 51
Nabha GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (iii) CH m p 43
Malaysia Petaling Jaya GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
Petaling Jaya GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn Bhd CH m
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph,CH m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH m p e 79
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ph,CH m
Singapore Singapore Glaxochem Pte Ltd Ph h
Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph p
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph,CH mGSK Annual Report 2007 I 151
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
43 Principal Group companies continued
asia Pacific Location Subsidiary Segment Activity %
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ph m p
Thailand Bangkok GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ph,CH m
Japan
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p
latin america
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH m p
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Ltda Ph,CH e m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Mexico Delegacion Tlalpan GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ph,CH e m p s
Puerto Rico Guaynabo GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. Ph m
Cidra SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc. Ph p
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ph,CH m
middle east &
africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E Ph m p 91
South Africa Bryanston GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ph,CH m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph m p
Usa Location Associate Business %
USA Madison Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (iv) Clinical testing 19
i) Incorporated in the Netherlands.
ii) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 (Ireland).
iii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 1985 on the grounds of dominant
influence.
iv) Equity accounted on the grounds of significant influence.
+ Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Key
Business segment: Ph Pharmaceuticals, CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development, e exporting, f finance, h holding company, i insurance, m marketing, p production, r research,
s service
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the Registrar
of Companies. Each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company,
and the company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline
Capital plc.152 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
44 legal proceedings The complaint is based on a threat to market a salmeterol/fluticasone
combination product in Germany prior to patent expiry. The basic patent
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative
covering the combination product in Seretide expires in September 2010
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property,
but is subject to a Supplementary Protection Certificate which extends
tax, antitrust and governmental investigations and related private
protection until September 2013. The action is in its early stages.
litigation. The Group makes provision for these proceedings on a
regular basis as summarised in Notes 2 and 29. The Group may make Argatroban
additional significant provisions for such legal proceedings as required In December 2007, Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc., Mitsubishi Kasei
in the event of further developments in these matters, consistent Corporation and the Group filed an action in the US District Court
with generally accepted accounting principles. Litigation, particularly for the Southern District of New York against Barr Laboratories, Inc.
in the USA, is inherently unpredictable and excessive awards that for infringement of Mitsubishi’s pharmaceutical composition patent
may not be justified by the evidence may occur. The Group could covering argatroban. Pursuant to a license from Mitsubishi, Encysive
in the future incur judgements or enter into settlements of claims has developed argatroban for the treatment of heparin-induced
that could result in payments that exceed its current provisions by an thrombocytopenia and holds the New Drug Application approved by
amount that would have a material adverse effect on the Group’s the US FDA. Encysive has licensed the US marketing rights to argatroban
financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. to the Group. The Mitsubishi patent expires in June 2014. Barr had filed
an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) with the FDA with a
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity and
certification of invalidity, unenforceability and non-infringement of the
enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products or processes
Mitsubishi patent. FDA approval of that ANDA is stayed until the earlier
and assertions of non-infringement of those patents. A loss in any of
of May 2010 or resolution of the patent infringement action. The case
these cases could result in loss of patent protection for the product
is in its early stages.
at issue. The consequences of any such loss could be a significant
decrease in sales of that product and could materially affect future Avandia, Avandamet and Avandaryl
results of operations for the Group. In August 2003, the Group filed an action in the US District Court
for the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are
for infringement of the Group’s patent relating to the maleate salt
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions are
form of rosiglitazone, the active ingredient in Avandia, which expires
made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice,
in 2015. In September 2003, the Group filed a comparable action in
when a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of
same court against Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, alleging infringement of
the dispute. The Group has established an actuarially determined
the same patent. Those actions were filed in response to ANDA filings
provision for product liability claims incurred but not yet reported as
with the FDA by Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories and Teva with certifications
described in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. At 31st December 2007,
that the Group’s maleate salt patent was invalid, unenforceable,
the Group’s aggregate provision for legal and other disputes (not
or not infringed. Teva subsequently filed a similar certification
including tax matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was £1.2
challenging the Group’s basic compound patent for rosiglitazone,
billion. The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the
and in January 2004 the Group commenced an action against Teva
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation in the same court for infringement of that patent.
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
In January 2005, the Group filed an action in the US District Court
The most significant of those matters are described below.
for the District of New Jersey against Teva for infringement of the
Intellectual property same two patents – the basic compound and maleate salt patents
Advair/Seretide for rosiglitazone. Teva had filed an ANDA with the FDA for a generic
In September 2004, the Group applied to the US Patent and version of Avandamet with a certification that those patents were
Trademark Office (USPTO) for re-issue of its combination patent invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed.
for Advair, an inhaled combination of salmeterol and fluticasone
In May 2007, the Group filed an action in the US District Court
propionate, which expires in September 2010. This followed an
for the District of New Jersey against Teva for infringement of the
internal review which concluded that the language in the patent
Group’s patent related to the maleate salt form of rosiglitazone, and
may not have accurately described all of the circumstances of the
the Group’s basic patent for rosiglitazone. Teva had filed an ANDA
invention and may not have claimed the invention as precisely as it
with the FDA for a generic version of Avandaryl with a certification
could. The objective of seeking re-issuance was to strengthen the
that those patents were invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed.
protection afforded by the patent. The USPTO reissued the patent in
February 2008. The reissued patent has the same September 2010 In June 2007, the Group voluntarily dismissed its infringement claims
expiration date as the original composition patent and is listed in the in respect of the patent covering the maleate salt form of rosiglitazone.
register of pharmaceutical patents maintained by the US FDA, the Since Dr. Reddy’s had not challenged the basic compound patent, the
Orange Book. dismissal of the maleate salt claim dismissed all claims against Dr.
Reddy’s in respect of Avandia.
In October 2007, the Group filed a complaint with the Patent Dispute
Chamber of the Regional Court in Düsseldorf, Germany against Neolab
(UK) for infringement of its German patent claiming compositions
containing the combination of salmeterol and fluticasone propionate
as used in Seretide (known as Viani in Germany).GSK Annual Report 2007 I 153
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
44 legal proceedings continued The Group’s action against URL/Mutual was amended to include a
claim for infringement of the re-issued patent. FDA approval of URL/
With respect to the Group’s patent infringement actions against Teva
Mutual’s ANDA is stayed until the earlier of June 2010 or resolution
in respect of the basic compound and maleate salt form patents, in
of the patent infringement action, but in no event can such approval
August 2007 the parties reached a settlement which provides that
issue prior to the expiration of the data exclusivity period in April 2010.
Teva may enter the US market with its generic versions of Avandia,
The case is in its early stages.
Avandamet and Avandaryl oral tablets late in the first quarter 2012.
Other terms of the settlement remain confidential. Paxil/Seroxat
In the USA a number of distributors of generic drugs filed applications
Avodart
with the FDA to market generic versions of Paxil/Seroxat (paroxetine
In February 2008, the Group filed an action in the US District Court
hydrochloride) prior to the expiration in 2007 of the Group’s
for the District of Delaware against Barr Laboratories for infringement
patent on paroxetine hyrdrochloride hemihydrate. In response the
of the basic patent covering the active ingredient in Avodart and the
Group filed a number of patent infringement actions, all of which
compound generally and its use to treat benign prostate hypertrophy
have concluded or been resolved except as described below. One
(BPH). The basic compound patent expires in November 2015 and
distributor, Apotex, launched its generic product in the USA in
the other two patents expire in September 2013. Barr had filed an
September 2003. Additional generic products were launched by
ANDA with the FDA with a certification of invalidity, unenforceability
other defendants after March 2004.
and non-infringement of all three patents. FDA approval of Barr’s
ANDA is stayed until the earlier of July 2010, or resolution of the The Group had filed two separate patent infringement actions against
patent infringement action. The case is in its early stages. Apotex, one in the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
and the other in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. After appeals by
Boniva
the Group to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (CAFC),
In September 2007, Roche Laboratories commenced actions in the
which hears all appeals from US District Courts on patent matters, in
US District Court for the District of New Jersey against seven generic
each of these cases, and a remand of the matter to the same panel on
drug manufacturers, and in the US District Court for the Northern
one case, the relevant claim of the patent on paroxetine hydrochloride
District of Illinois against an eighth such manufacturer in each case
hemihydrate was ruled invalid. Other claims of other patents have
alleging infringement of Roche patents relating to Boniva tablets. Each
been ruled invalid and/or not infringed, in some cases with appeals
of the defendants had filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification
pending or planned, and other claims are pending trial.
of invalidity, unenforceability or non-infringement of at least one of
the Roche patents. Only one manufacturer has challenged the basic In Europe, generic products containing paroxetine hydrochloride are
compound patent which expires in March 2012. Final FDA approval of now on the market in most European countries. Whilst some of these
those ANDAs is stayed until the earlier of November 2010 or resolution products are the subject of continuing litigation, most actions have
of the relevant patent infringement action. The Group participates in now been concluded or settled. With respect to two manufacturers,
the marketing of Boniva pursuant to a co-promotion agreement with Synthon BV and FAL, litigation is ongoing and counterclaims for
Roche. The cases are in their early stages. unfair competition have been asserted against the Group.
Combivir Following the litigation in Canada with Apotex over several other
In November 2007, the Group filed an action in the District Court for patents related to paroxetine, Apotex launched its generic product
the District of Delaware against Teva Pharmaceuticals for infringement in Canada in October 2003. Apotex alleged that as a result of that
of one of its patents relating to Combivir. The patent, which covers litigation it had been enjoined from launching that product after
the combination of AZT and lamivudine to treat HIV, expires in May receipt of regulatory approval. An action by Apotex to recover damages
2012. Teva had filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification of related to the delay occasioned by those injunctions is ongoing.
invalidity, unenforceability and non-infringement of that combination
Paxil CR
patent. Teva did not challenge two other patents relating to Combivir
In November 2005, Mylan Pharmaceuticals filed an ANDA for Paxil
that expire in 2010 and 2016. The case is in its early stages.
CR (paroxetine hydrochloride controlled release formulation) with a
Coreg CR certification of invalidity, unenforceability and non-infringement of several
In February 2008, the Group filed an action in the US District Court patents listed in the FDA Orange Book. There was no such certification
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against United Research in respect of the patent covering paroxetine hydrochloride hemihydrate,
Laboratories Inc./Mutual Pharmaceuticals Company, Inc. in respect of which Mylan admitted is the active ingredient in its product. That patent
the Group’s patent relating to the crystalline salt form of carvedilol, expired in June 2007, after giving effect to a grant of paediatric exclusivity
the active ingredient in Coreg CR. URL/ Mutual had filed an ANDA by the FDA. As the Group did not file a patent infringement action against
with the FDA with a certification of invalidity, unenforceability and Mylan within the 45-day period provided under Hatch-Waxman, there is
non-infringement of the patents covering the crystalline salt form and no 30-month stay of FDA approval of the Mylan ANDA.
delayed release technology used for manufacturing that product which
A new US patent covering a delayed and controlled release formulation
expire in 2023 and 2016, respectively. In January 2008, the USPTO re-
of paroxetine hydrochloride (Paxil CR) was issued to the Group in June
issued the Group’s patent on a method of use for administration of
2007 and listed in the FDA Orange Book and thereafter the Group filed
carvedilol with other therapeutic agents. The re-issued patent, which
an action in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against
has been listed in the Orange Book, expires in 2016.
Mylan for infringement of that newly issued patent.154 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
44 legal proceedings continued In March 2007, Biovail announced, following a review by the US
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) that was requested by the parties,
Subsequently, the parties reached a settlement which permits Mylan
a comprehensive settlement with Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Impax
to enter the market for all strengths of Paxil CR no later than 1st
Laboratories, Watson Pharmaceuticals and Teva Pharmaceutical
October 2008. Other terms of the settlement remain confidential.
Industries. Certain aspects of the settlements remain confidential but
Requip the parties did disclose that, with defined exceptions, Anchen, Impax,
In April 2005, the Group commenced an action in the US District Watson and Teva may not market a generic version of the 150mg
Court for the District of Delaware against Teva Pharmaceutical USA Inc. strength of Wellbutrin XL until 2008.
alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for ropinirole
The FDA has given final approval to Anchen’s ANDA for its generic
hydrochloride (the active ingredient in Requip) and a method of use
version of Wellbutrin XL and to Impax for a generic 300mg tablet
patent for treatment of Parkinson’s disease, both of which are listed
product. The 300mg generic product was launched in the USA at
in the FDA Orange Book. The compound patent expired in December
the end of December 2006. No generic version of the 150mg tablet
2007 and the method of use patent expires in May 2008. The defendant
has been launched as of the date of this report.
had filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification that those patents
were invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. In December 2006, the USPTO Action
judge ruled at the conclusion of the trial that the Group’s patent on In October 2007, the Group filed an action against the US Patent
the method of use of ropinirole to treat Parkinson’s disease is novel and and Trademark Office in the US District Court for the Eastern
nonobvious rejecting Teva’s claims on those grounds. Teva’s original District of Virginia requesting the court to enjoin the Office from
challenge to the Group’s basic compound patent was withdrawn, implementing new regulations affecting substantive rights related
and Teva has accepted that the FDA will not approve its product prior to the filing and obtaining of patents. Those regulations were due
to expiration of that patent. In addition, Teva has stipulated that the to become effective on 1st November 2007. In October 2007, the
Group’s method of use patent is valid and enforceable and that Teva’s court issued an order enjoining implementation of the rules until a
generic version would infringe. Teva has waived its right to appeal the full hearing could be held on the parties’ cross-motions for summary
December 2006 judgement in favour of the Group and has agreed judgement and a final decision is rendered. That hearing was held
to wait until the expiration of the Group’s patent in May 2008 before on 8th February 2008 but no decision has been reported as of the
launching their generic product. date of this report.
Valtrex Product liability
In May 2003, the Group commenced an action in the US District Court Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development
for the District of New Jersey against Ranbaxy Laboratories, alleging of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of
infringement of the Group’s compound patent for valacyclovir, the products for use by humans following approval by regulatory
active ingredient in Valtrex. That patent expires in 2009. The defendant bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines
has filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification that the Group’s are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may
compound patent was invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. The become evident. The Group is currently a defendant in a number
case has been settled on terms that permit Ranbaxy to enter the of product liability lawsuits related to the Group’s pharmaceutical
market in late 2009 (taking into account expected paediatric exclusivity products. The most significant of those matters are described below.
with respect to the Group’s basic composition of matter patent).
Avandia
Wellbutrin XL In May 2007, the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) published
In December 2004, Biovail commenced actions in the US District Court an article on Avandia in which the author, based on a meta-analysis
for the Central District of California against Anchen Pharmaceuticals of 42 clinical trials, raises concerns that use of the drug rosiglitazone
and in the US District Court for the Southern District of Florida against (Avandia) may be associated with an increased risk of heart attack and
Abrika Pharmaceuticals, in each case alleging infringement of Biovail cardiovascular death in comparison to the use of a placebo or other
formulation patents for Wellbutrin XL. In April 2005, Biovail filed an anti-diabetic therapies. Following publication of the NEJM article,
action in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania the Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf of
against Impax Laboratories for infringement of the same patents. Those individuals and purported class action cases asserting consumer fraud
patents expire in 2018. Each of Anchen, Abrika and Impax had filed an and/or personal injury claims on behalf of purchasers and users of
ANDA with the FDA with a certification of invalidity or non-infringement Avandia. The federal cases are part of a multi-district litigation (MDL)
of the Biovail patents. The Group is the licensee under those patents. proceeding which is pending in the US District Court for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania. Cases have also been filed in state courts.
In August 2006, the judge granted Anchen’s motion and ruled that
The litigation is at an early stage.
Anchen’s ANDA product did not infringe Biovail’s patent. Biovail has
appealed that decision to the CAFC. The Group is not a party to any
of those actions. In September 2005, Biovail commenced actions in
the US District Court for the Southern District of New York against
Watson Laboratories alleging infringement of the Biovail formulation
patents. Watson’s third party counterclaim against the Group based
on listing activities associated with the FDA Orange Book was
dismissed in October 2006.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 155
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
44 legal proceedings continued The Group has received numerous claims and lawsuits alleging that
treatment with Paxil has caused homicidal or suicidal behaviour exhibited
Baycol
by users of the product. Class certification was denied in January 2007
In August 2001, Bayer AG withdrew Baycol (cerivastatin sodium)
in a purported personal injury class action lawsuit. In January 2005, the
worldwide in light of reports of adverse events, including deaths,
FDA approved both a boxed warning that antidepressants increased
involving rhabdomyolysis. The Group had participated in the marketing
the risk of suicidal thoughts or behaviour in paediatric patients and
of Baycol in the USA pursuant to a co-promotion agreement with Bayer
other strengthened warnings for SSRI products, including Paxil, as a
which was the licence holder and manufacturer of the product.
class. In May 2006, the Paxil US label was updated to warn that young
Following the withdrawal, Bayer and the Group were named as adults, especially those with Major Depressive Disorder, may be at
defendants in thousands of lawsuits filed in state and federal courts increased risk for suicidal behaviour during treatment with paroxetine.
in the USA on behalf of both individuals and putative classes of In August 2007, FDA required updated US labels for antidepressants
former Baycol users. A number of the suits allege that the plaintiffs as a class to state in the boxed warning that antidepressants increased
have suffered personal injuries, including rhabdomyolsis, from the the risk of suicidal thinking and behaviour in children, adolescents,
use of Baycol. Others claim that persons who took Baycol, although and young adults; that no increase was shown beyond age 24; that
not injured, may be at risk of future injury or may have suffered there was a reduction in risk in adults aged 65 and older; and that
economic damages from purchasing and using Baycol. Plaintiffs seek depression and other psychiatric disorders are themselves associated
remedies including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages with increased risk.
and creation of funds for medical monitoring.
The Group received lawsuits filed in state and federal courts in the
The Group and Bayer Corporation, the principal US subsidiary of USA and Canada on behalf of thousands of plaintiffs, including
Bayer AG, have signed an allocation agreement under which purported class actions, alleging that paroxetine (the active ingredient
Bayer Corporation has agreed to pay 95% of all settlements and in Paxil) is addictive and causes dependency and withdrawal reactions.
compensatory damages judgements, with each party retaining The US federal cases were consolidated in an MDL proceeding. In
responsibility for its own attorneys’ fees and any punitive damages. January 2006, a conditional settlement agreement became effective.
The federal cases have been consolidated in an MDL proceeding in The Group did not admit liability with respect to the allegations in
the US District Court for the District of Minnesota. To date two state- the lawsuits. Virtually all the US actions have now been resolved.
wide class actions have been certified – a medical monitoring case in One purported class action consumer fraud lawsuit, focused
Pennsylvania and a Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices on discontinuation symptoms, is on appeal from denial of class
Act case in Illinois. The medical monitoring action was dismissed by certification in California state court. There is purported class action
the court on summary judgement. Another class action, in which litigation in Canada. The Group is also defending litigation which
GSK was not named as a defendant, has been certified in Oklahoma. has commenced in the UK on behalf of hundreds of plaintiffs who
More than 3,000 claims for death or serious injury have been settled allege that paroxetine has caused them to suffer from withdrawal
and thousands of others alleging muscle aches and pains have been reactions and dependency.
voluntarily or involuntarily dismissed.
Thimerosal
Paxil and Paxil CR The Group, along with a number of other pharmaceutical companies,
The Group has received lawsuits and claims alleging that use of Paxil has been named as a defendant in numerous individual personal injury
(paroxetine) during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child with lawsuits in state and federal district courts in the USA alleging that
birth defects or health issues. Separately, the Group has received thimerosal, a preservative used in the manufacture of vaccines, causes
lawsuits and claims that patients who took Paxil committed or neurodevelopmental disorders and other injuries, including autism.
attempted to commit suicide and/or acts of violence. The Group also Two of the cases are purported class actions although there has been
has received lawsuits and claims filed on behalf of patients alleging no determination whether any of those cases will be permitted to
that they suffered symptoms on discontinuing treatment with Paxil. proceed as a class action. A number of purported class actions in
other jurisdictions have been withdrawn or dismissed. Plaintiffs seek
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging that
remedies including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages
use of Paxil during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child with a
and the cost of a fund for medical monitoring and research. As of
congenital malformation or persistent pulmonary hypertension of
the date of this report, in the limited number of cases that have
the newborn. In September 2005, the US label for Paxil was updated
approached trial dates, vaccine manufacturers and manufacturers
to reflect new information that suggested an increased risk of
of other thimerosal-containing medicinal products have been
congenital malformations (particularly cardiovascular malformations)
successful in excluding testimony of plaintiffs’ expert witnesses on
in infants born to mothers who took Paxil during the first trimester of
causation, on grounds that plaintiffs have failed to establish that
pregnancy. In December 2005, the Paxil US label was further updated
the hypothesized link between thimerosal and neurodevelopmental
to include new data and to strengthen the pregnancy warning from
disorders is generally accepted as reliable within the relevant scientific
Category C to Category D, which indicates there is evidence of risk
community. As of the date of this report there are no cases scheduled
to the foetus, but the potential benefits from the use of the drug
for trial in 2008 in which the Group is a defendant.
in pregnant women may outweigh the risk. In May 2006, the Paxil
US label was again updated to include a class warning concerning
persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn arising in mothers
who took selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants
after the 20th week of pregnancy.156 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
44 legal proceedings continued The Group agreed to pay the government a civil settlement of
$149 million in respect of the marketing of Zofran and Kytril, which
Sales and marketing and regulation
included settlement amounts for each of the states for the claims
Marketing and promotion
being settled. As part of the settlement the corporate integrity
In February 2004, the Group received a subpoena from the US
agreement to which the Group is a party was amended to address
Attorney’s office in Colorado regarding the Group’s sales and
issues raised in the course of the government investigation.
promotional practices relating to nine of its largest selling products,
for the period from January 1997 to the present. In particular, the Subsequent to the initial subpoenas, a number of states through
government has inquired about alleged promotion of these drugs their respective attorneys general and most of the counties in New
for off-label uses as well as Group sponsored continuing medical York state filed civil lawsuits in state and federal courts against GSK
education programmes, other speaker events, special issue boards, and many other drug companies. The actions claim, on behalf
advisory boards, speaker training programmes, clinical studies, and of the states as payers (and in some cases on behalf of in-state
related grants, fees, travel and entertainment. Although the original patients as consumers), damages and restitution due to AWP-based
subpoena was issued from the US Attorney’s office in Colorado, the price reporting for pharmaceutical products covered by the states’
scope of the inquiry is nationwide. The government is also inquiring Medicaid programmes (and in some cases by other governmental
about the Group’s response to an October 2002 letter from the programmes). In addition, private payer class action lawsuits were
FDA’s Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communication filed against GSK in multiple federal district and state courts. All
requesting information on the Group’s alleged promotion of the federal cases were consolidated in a MDL proceeding in the US
Wellbutrin SR for off-label use. The Group is co-operating with the District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
investigation and providing the requested information.
In August 2005, the judge in that MDL proceeding granted in part
In February 2003, the Verona Public Prosecutor commenced a criminal and denied in part the private-payer plaintiffs’ motion for class
investigation into the Group’s sales and marketing practices in Italy. certification, thereby narrowing the scope of the class claims. In
Specific areas of investigation include medical education programmes, August 2006 the Group reached civil settlements to resolve the class
clinical studies and congresses as well as the interaction between action litigation and certain of the state attorney general claims.
the Group’s representatives and physicians. The Public Prosecutor The Group agreed to a nationwide settlement of $70 million to
has proposed that a number of physicians and representatives of resolve these claims which was approved by the trial court in August
the Group face criminal charges and a hearing has been set for 2007. The Group separately resolved potential AWP claims by state
October 2008. The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Medicaid programmes in more than two-thirds of the states through
staff has initiated an investigation into the allegations. The Group is the procedures established by the DOJ Settlement. AWP lawsuits
co-operating with the investigations. filed or threatened by a number of state attorneys general were also
fully resolved. Litigation concerning AWP issues is continuing with
Following a United Nations report alleging that bribes had been paid
ten states as well as with New York counties.
to Iraqi government officials in connection with the UN Oil for Food
Programme, the Group received a subpoena from the SEC in February Nominal pricing
2006 in respect of the Group’s participation in that programme. The The Group responded to two letter requests from the US Senate
US Department of Justice also initiated an investigation. In December Committee on Finance, dated April 2004 and February 2005, for
2007, the UK Serious Fraud Office issued a formal notice to the documents and information relating to the nominal price exception to
Group requiring production of documents related to the Group’s the best price reporting requirements under the Medicaid Drug Rebate
participation in the programme. The Group is co-operating with the Programme. In January 2007, the committee released its findings
investigations and providing documents responsive to the subpoena that some pharmaceutical manufacturers inappropriately used the
and the notice. nominal price exception contrary to the committee’s interpretation
of Congressional intent. In May 2004, the Group was advised by the
Average wholesale price
US Department of Justice that they are investigating certain of the
GSK has responded to subpoenas from the Office of the Inspector
Group’s nominal pricing and bundled sales arrangements to determine
General of the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
whether those arrangements qualify under the exception to the best
the US Department of Justice and the states of Texas and California
price reporting requirements or violate civil statutes or laws.
in connection with allegations that pharmaceutical companies,
including GSK, have violated federal fraud and abuse laws, such as The Group is co-operating in that investigation and has provided
the Federal False Claims Act and, comparable state laws with respect documents and information to the Department of Justice regarding
to Texas and California, as a result of the way ‘average wholesale arrangements for a number of the Group’s products. In March 2007,
price’ (AWP) was determined and reported for certain drugs and the the Group received two subpoenas from the Delaware Attorney
way the Medicare and Medicaid programmes reimburse for those General’s Office seeking documents related to nominal price contracts
drugs. In September 2005, the Group reached a civil settlement with with hospitals and healthcare providers located in Delaware. Other
the US Department of Justice, the US Attorney for the District of pharmaceutical companies have received similar subpoenas. The
Massachusetts and the Office of the Inspector General for HHS (the Group is providing documents responsive to the subpoenas. In
‘DOJ Settlement’). addition to these governmental investigations, allegations concerning
nominal pricing have been made by certain government payers as
part of the AWP litigation.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 157
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
44 legal proceedings continued In April 2005, the Group received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s
Office in Boston requesting production of records regarding
Paxil/Seroxat
manufacturing at the Cidra site, covering information that is
Following announcement of the New York State Attorney General’s
similar to that seized by the US government in Puerto Rico in 2003.
office about the state’s lawsuit, subsequently settled in August 2004,
Subsequently, in August 2007 and January 2008, the Group received
alleging failure to disclose data on the use of Paxil in children and
two additional subpoenas from the government related to the Cidra
adolescents, similar cases, some of which purport to be class actions,
facility. The Group is co-operating with the US Attorney’s Office and
were filed in state and federal and Canadian courts by private
producing the records responsive to the subpoenas. In addition, in
plaintiffs seeking to recover amounts paid for Paxil purchased for use
July 2007, the Group learned that the US District Court for the District
by patients under age 18. The Canadian litigation has been dismissed.
of Massachusetts had unsealed a complaint brought by a former
The Group reached a class settlement agreement in an Illinois state
employee under the federal False Claims Act claiming monetary
court action that includes all persons in the USA who bought Paxil
damages as a result of the alleged failure of the Cidra facility to
for someone under age 18. The Group denies any liability. The
comply with GMP in the manufacture of various products.
agreement relates only to the cost of purchasing Paxil for use by
paediatric patients and does not include any personal injury claims. The Group is also named in two purported consumer fraud class
The settlement was approved by the court in April 2007. Remaining action lawsuits – one filed in California state court and the other in
are four lawsuits seeking recovery on behalf of insurance companies the US District Court for the District of Puerto Rico – alleging that Paxil
and other third-party payers for payments for prescriptions of Paxil products were not manufactured according to GMP. Plaintiffs seek
to children and adolescents. The Group was granted partial summary economic, statutory and punitive damages, along with a request for
judgement dismissing class claims in one of those cases. Discovery injunctive relief. There has not yet been any determination whether
is underway in a state court action in California pending a hearing either case will be permitted to proceed as a class action.
on class certification.
Anti-trust
In the UK an investigation remains pending by the UK Medicines Paxil/Seroxat
and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to determine In the paroxetine patent infringement actions brought by the Group as
whether the Group has complied with its pharmacovigilance described under ‘Intellectual property’ above, Apotex and certain other
obligations in reporting data from clinical trials for Seroxat/Paxil in companies filed anti-trust and unfair competition counterclaims against
children and adolescents. the Group in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
These were based on allegations that the Group monopolised a ‘market’
Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site
for Paxil by bringing allegedly sham patent litigation and allegedly
Following FDA inspections in October 2003 and November 2004
abusing the regulatory procedures for the listing of patents in the FDA
which resulted in observations of possible deficiencies in manufacturing
Orange Book. Whilst the Apotex matter remains in the discovery stage,
practices at the Group’s manufacturing facility in Cidra, Puerto Rico, in
the matters with the other companies have been resolved.
March 2005 the FDA seized certain lots of Paxil CR and Avandamet due
to manufacturing issues. The FDA observations related to certain aspects In November 2000, the FTC staff advised the Group that they were
of production controls, process validation and laboratory investigations. conducting a non-public investigation to determine whether the
Group was violating Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission
In April 2005 the Group reached agreement with the FDA on a
Act by ‘monopolising or attempting to monopolise’ the ‘market’
Consent Decree. The Consent Decree provides for an independent
for paroxetine hydrochloride by preventing generic competition
expert to review manufacturing processes at the site for compliance
to Paxil and requested the Group to submit certain information in
with FDA Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) requirements. As
connection with that investigation. In October 2003, the FTC closed
provided in the Consent Decree, in September 2005 the Group
its investigation on the basis of its finding that no further action
provided a report to the FDA on the deficiencies identified in this
was warranted. Following public reference to the FTC investigation
review, setting out a corrective plan and timetable for completion.
regarding Paxil, a number of governmental and private civil actions
The Group anticipates completion of the work identified in that plan
and claims were initiated in the USA. All have been resolved with
by mid-2008. In March 2007, the FDA completed a general GMP
the exception of a private indirect purchaser opt-out lawsuit brought
inspection which resulted in four inspectional observations. The
in the Minnesota courts. That matter is in the discovery phase.
Group has been advised by the FDA that the Group’s response to
Additionally, class actions have been filed in provincial courts in
the inspectional observations is satisfactory.
Canada on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers. Those cases are
In October 2007 the Group announced plans to cease operations at in their early stages.
the Cidra site but expects to continue production of Paxil CR at the
In October 2005, the Competition Directorate of the European
site until that production can be transferred to another facility which
Commission initiated an inspection concerning allegations that
the Group currently expects to take place in 2009. Production of all
the Group has abused a dominant position in the marketplace
other products at the site was discontinued by the end of 2007.
concerning enforcement of its intellectual property rights, litigation
In October 2003, the US federal government executed a search surrounding regulatory approvals and marketing of Seroxat in
warrant at the Cidra facility and seized records relating to the Europe. In October 2006, the Commission made a formal request
manufacturing operations at the site. for further information. The Group responded to this request by the
end of 2006.158 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
stnemetats
laicnanif
eht
ot
setoN
notes to the financial statements
continued
44 legal proceedings continued Relenza
In May 2004, Biota Holdings Limited filed a complaint in the Victorian
In January 2008, the European Commission announced an inquiry
Supreme Court in Australia alleging that the Group had failed to fulfil
into certain aspects of competition in the pharmaceutical sector and
its development, promotion and production obligations for zanamivir
initiated inspections at the premises of a number of innovative and
(Relenza) under the terms of the licence agreement between the
generic pharmaceutical companies, including the Group. The Group
Group and Biota. Biota is seeking substantial cash damages. The
is co-operating with the Commission in its investigation.
Group believes that it has adhered to its obligations under the licence
Wellbutrin SR agreement. The parties are involved in extensive discovery. The Court
In December 2004, January 2005 and February 2005, lawsuits, has ordered the parties to mediate by the end of July 2008 and has
several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the US scheduled the trial to commence in August 2008.
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the
Overtime claims
Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of Wellbutrin SR.
In December 2006, two purported class actions were filed against
The complaints allege violations of US anti-trust laws through sham
the Group on behalf of all the Group’s US pharmaceutical sales
litigation and fraud on the patent office by the Group in obtaining
representatives. These actions, which were filed in or transferred to
and enforcing patents covering Wellbutrin SR. The complaints
the US District Court for the Central District of California allege that
follow the introduction of generic competition to Wellbutrin SR in
those representatives are not ‘exempt’ employees under California
April 2004, after district and appellate court rulings that a generic
law and/or the US Fair Labor Standards Act and consequently entitled
manufacturer did not infringe the Group’s patents. The parties are
to overtime pay. The suits seek double damages for all overtime
involved in discovery.
allegedly worked by the Group’s sales representatives over a three-
Secondary wholesaler year period together with attorneys’ fees. The cases are in their early
In July 2006, RxUSA Wholesale, Inc., a ‘secondary wholesaler’, filed stages. Similar actions have been filed against other pharmaceutical
suit against the Group and many other pharmaceutical manufacturers companies. In several of those actions, courts have found in favour
and wholesalers in the US District Court for the Eastern District of of the companies and dismissed the actions. Those dismissals are
New York. The complaint alleges that the defendants engaged in a now on appeal.
conspiracy to refuse to supply pharmaceutical products to RxUSA in
Environmental matters
violation of federal and state anti-trust laws. The Group’s motion to
GSK has been notified of its potential responsibility relating to past
dismiss the complaint remains pending.
operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain sites,
Commercial and corporate primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the subject of
Securities class actions litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state
In September 2005, attorneys representing a purported class of governments for waste disposal site remediation costs and tort
purchasers of GlaxoSmithKline shares and American Depositary actions brought by private parties.
Shares (ADSs) filed a second amended securities class action complaint
GSK has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
against the Group in the US District Court for the Southern District of
approximately 29 sites, of which 14 appear on the National Priority
New York, alleging that the Group violated US securities laws through
List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
failure to disclose unfavourable clinical data from studies on Paxil,
Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund).
misrepresentation of the remaining patent protection for Paxil and
Augmentin and violation of the Federal False Claims Act on the basis of These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous
the Group’s recent AWP settlement with the government. In October waste facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of
2006, the judge entered an order dismissing the complaint. Plaintiffs hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to
filed an appeal with the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. reimburse the government for cleanup costs. In most instances, GSK
Oral argument on the appeal has been set for 5th March 2008. is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste although there
are a few sites where GSK is involved as a current or former operator
In November 2007, attorneys purporting to represent a class of
of the facility. Although Superfund provides that the defendants are
purchasers of GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs filed an amended
jointly and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are
consolidated complaint against the Group and senior officers in
frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste
the US District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging
disposed of at the site by the generator. GSK’s proportionate liability
that the Group and the individual defendants violated US securities
for cleanup costs has been substantially determined for about 20 of
laws and artificially inflated the price of GlaxoSmithKline’s stock by
the sites referred to above.
misleading investors about the safety of Avandia. The amended
consolidated complaint also alleges that several current and former GSK’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. While the cost
senior officers and members of the Group engaged in insider trading. of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over time,
A motion to dismiss the complaint has been filed on behalf of the be substantial, GSK routinely accrues amounts related to its share of
Group and the individual defendants. the liability for such matters.Financial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
Directors’ statements of responsibility
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation to Directors’ remuneration
the company’s financial statements
The Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 86 sets out the remuneration
The Directors are: policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on Directors’
remuneration and other disclosable information relating to Directors
• responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting
and officers and their interests. It has been prepared in accordance
records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial
with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006, and complies with Section
position of the company at any time and from which financial
B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
statements can be prepared to comply with the Companies
Acts 1985 and 2006
Going concern basis
• required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue
company as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or
in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
loss for that period
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
• responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of financial statements.
internal control and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the
assets of the company and for preventing and detecting fraud and the combined code
other irregularities.
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
The balance sheet for the year ended 31st December 2007, and of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial
supporting notes are set out on pages 161 to 164 of this report. Reporting Council, as described under ‘Corporate governance’ on
pages 59 to 70, and has complied with its provisions except as
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been
described on page 69.
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements,
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
as necessary; applicable accounting standards have been followed, the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance
and the financial statements have been prepared on the going in relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified
concern basis. for their review.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial statements
are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report (page 160).
The Annual Report 2007 is published in hard-copy printed form
and made available on the website. The Directors are responsible
for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the
website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation sir christopher Gent
and dissemination of financial statements. Access to the website is Chairman
available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be 27th February 2008
different.
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors, in office at the date of this Report, have each
confirmed that:
• s o far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of
which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
• each Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have
taken as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the company’s auditors are
aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
with the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 159
stnemetats
laicnanif
ytilibisnopser
fo
stnemetats
’srotceriDFinancial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
independent auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2007
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes. These
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
parent company financial statements have been prepared under
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
the accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
as having been audited.
be audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the
GlaxoSmithKline for the year ended 31st December 2007. parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently
Respective responsibilities of directors applied and adequately disclosed.
and auditors
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, information and explanations which we considered necessary in order
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company financial to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance
statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom that the parent company financial statements and the part of the
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Responsibilities. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of
the presentation of information in the parent company financial
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited
be audited.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
Opinion
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of In our opinion:
the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair
giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into
Accounting Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at
whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
31st December 2007;
consent in writing.
• the parent company financial statements and the part of the
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared • t he information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to with the parent company financial statements.
you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report
of the Directors is consistent with the parent company financial
statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and London
other transactions is not disclosed. 27th February 2008
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company
financial statements. The other information comprises only the
Notes:
Financial summary, the Joint statement by the Chairman and Chief
a) The maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline website is the
Executive, Financial trends and ratios, Business review, the Corporate
responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not
governance statement and unaudited parts of the Remuneration involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept
report. We consider the implications for our report if we become no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies statements since they were initially presented on the website.
with the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination
do not extend to any other information. of financial information may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
160 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
troper
’srotiduA
tnednepednIFinancial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
at 31st December 2007
2007 2006
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets - investments D 19,521 19,466
Debtors E 288 273
Cash at bank 6 7
Current assets 294 280
Creditors: amounts due within one year F (6,688) (10,210)
Net current liabilities (6,394) (9,930)
Net assets 13,127 9,536
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital G 1,503 1,498
Share premium account G 1,266 858
Other reserves H 1,071 1,008
Profit and loss account H 9,287 6,172
Equity shareholders’ funds 13,127 9,536
Approved by the Board on 27th February 2008
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 161
StnemetAtS
lAiCnAnif
PAAG
KU
–
teehs
ecnalab
ynapmoCFinancial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
notes to the company balance sheet – UK GaaP
a Presentation of the financial statements Share based payments
The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over the
Description of business
company’s options, represents additional capital contributions by the
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global
company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in subsidiaries
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery,
results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity. The
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical
additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the grant
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and
issued allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
health-related consumer products.
Taxation
Preparation of financial statements
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with UK generally
tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the
accepted accounting principles (UK GAAP) and with UK accounting
balance sheet date.
presentation as at 31st December 2007, with comparative figures as
at 31st December 2006. The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated
by reason of timing differences which have originated but not
As permitted by s.230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss
reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only
account of the company is not presented in this Annual Report.
recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable
Accounting convention and standards against future taxable profits.
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting standards.
to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected
Accounting principles and policies to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with
Financial guarantees
generally accepted accounting principles requires management
Financial guarantees issued between the company and its subsidiaries
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
are held at fair value and amortised over the life of the guarantee.
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual
c Operating profit
amounts could differ from those estimates.
A fee of £11,000 (2006 – £10,700) relating to the audit of the
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
company has been charged in operating profit.
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and described
in Note B.
B accounting policies
Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate
ruling on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by
a forward exchange contract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities
are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date,
or at the forward rate.
Dividends paid and received
Dividends paid and received are included in the accounts in the
period in which the related dividends are actually paid or received.
Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision
is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect
of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be
reliably estimated.
Investments in subsidiary companies
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any provision
for impairment.
Impairment of investments
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment when
there is an indication that the investment might be impaired. Any
provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to the
income statement in the year concerned.
162 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
PAAG
KU
–
teehs
ecnalab
ynapmoc
eht
ot
setoNFinancial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
notes to the company balance sheet – UK GaaP
continued
D fixed assets
2007 2006
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
18,519 18,519
Capital contribution relating to share based payments and financial guarantees 1,002 947
19,521 19,466
e Debtors
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 279 271
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 9 2
288 273
f creditors
2007 2006
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Bank overdraft 6 –
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 6,659 10,185
Other creditors 23 25
6,688 10,210
G share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary shares of 25p each
Premium
Number £m £m
share capital authorised
At 31st December 2006 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2007 10,000,000,000 2,500
share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2006 5,962,851,256 1,491 549
Issued under share option schemes 28,750,592 7 309
At 31st December 2006 5,991,601,848 1,498 858
Issued under share option schemes 37,307,678 9 408
Purchased and cancelled (16,322,500) (4) –
At 31st December 2007 6,012,587,026 1,503 1,266
31st December 31st December
2007 2006
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options 218,182 225,163
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 3,769,231 3,783,235
At 31st December 2007, of the issued share capital, 134,529,906 shares were held in the ESOP Trust, 504,194,158 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 5,373,862,962 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of the
shares held in the ESOP Trust are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 163
stnemetats
laicnanif
PAAG
KU
–
teehs
ecnalab
ynapmoc
eht
ot
setoNFinancial statements GlaxoSmithKline plc
notes to the company balance sheet – UK GaaP
continued
H Reserves
Other Profit and
reserves loss account total
£m £m £m
At 1st January 2006 902 7,165 8,067
Profit attributable to shareholders – 2,953 2,953
Dividends to shareholders – (2,598) (2,598)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – (1,348) (1,348)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 106 – 106
At 31st December 2006 1,008 6,172 7,180
Profit attributable to shareholders – 9,658 9,658
Dividends to shareholders – (2,793) (2,793)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 4 (213) (209)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – (3,537) (3,537)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 59 – 59
At 31st December 2007 1,071 9,287 10,358
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £9,658 million (2006 – £2,953 million), which after dividends of £2,793 million (2006
– £2,598 million), gave a retained profit of £6,865 million (2006 – profit of £355 million). After the cost of shares purchased and cancelled
of £213 million (2006 – nil) and the cost of shares purchased and held as Treasury shares of £3,537 million (2006 – £1,348 million),
the profit and loss account reserve at 31st December 2007 stood at £9,287 million (2006 – £6,172 million), of which £4,096 million is
unrealised (2006 – £4,096 million).
164 I GSK Annual Report 2007
stnemetats
laicnanif
PAAG
KU
–
teehs
ecnalab
ynapmoc
eht
ot
setoNInvestor information
The investor information section includes the financial record
presenting historical information prepared in accordance with IFRS
as adopted by the European Union.
This section also discusses shareholder return, in the form of dividends
and share price movements, and provides other information for
shareholders.
Financial record
Quarterly trend 166
Five year record 172
Shareholder information 175
Taxation information for shareholders 179
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 165
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI166 I GSK Annual Report 2007
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
drocer
laicnaniF
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis is provided by quarter of the Group results and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area in Sterling for the financial
year 2007.
Income statement – total 12 months 2007 Q4 2007 Q3 2007 Q2 2007 Q1 2007
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 19,233 – (4) 5,047 (2) (2) 4,605 (2) (6) 4,775 – (5) 4,806 3 (5)
– Consumer Healthcare 3,483 14 11 927 11 13 871 16 14 899 18 14 786 9 2
Total turnover 22,716 2 (2) 5,974 – – 5,476 1 (3) 5,674 3 (2) 5,592 4 (4)
Cost of sales (5,317) 8 6 (1,639) 13 13 (1,232) 2 1 (1,212) 3 – (1,234) 14 9
Selling, general and administrative (6,954) – (4) (1,823) (6) (6) (1,617) 3 – (1,841) 3 (2) (1,673) (1) (8)
Research and development (3,327) (1) (4) (1,043) 7 6 (769) (9) (12) (789) (4) (8) (726) 2 (4)
Other operating income 475 119 52 97 207
Operating profit 7,593 3 (3) 1,588 (7) (7) 1,910 (1) (6) 1,929 9 1 2,166 11 –
Finance income 262 52 75 77 58
Finance costs (453) (119) (117) (121) (96)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 50 10 14 11 15
Profit before taxation 7,452 2 (4) 1,531 (11) (10) 1,882 (2) (7) 1,896 8 – 2,143 10 1
Taxation (2,142) (455) (536) (541) (610)
Tax rate % 28.7% 29.7% 28.5% 28.5% 28.5%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,310 3 (3) 1,076 (11) (11) 1,346 (1) (6) 1,355 10 1 1,533 11 –
Profit attributable to minority interests 96 19 36 22 19
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,214 1,057 1,310 1,333 1,514
Basic earnings per share (pence) 94.4p 5 (1) 19.6p (7) (7) 23.7p 1 (4) 24.0p 11 3 27.0p 14 2
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 93.7p 19.4p 23.5p 23.7p 26.7p
Income statement – business performance
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 19,233 – (4) 5,047 (2) (2)
– Consumer Healthcare 3,483 14 11 927 11 13
Total turnover 22,716 2 (2) 5,974 – –
Cost of sales (5,206) 6 4 (1,528) 5 6
Selling, general and administrative (6,817) (2) (6) (1,686) (13) (13)
Research and development (3,237) (3) (6) (953) (2) (3)
Other operating income 475 119
Operating profit 7,931 8 2 1,926 14 13
Finance income 262 52
Finance costs (453) (119)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 50 10
Profit before taxation 7,790 6 – 1,869 10 9
Taxation (2,219) (532)
Tax rate % 28.5% 28.5%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,571 8 1 1,337 12 11
Profit attributable to minority interests 96 19
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,475 1,318
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 99.1p 10 4 24.4p 17 16
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 98.3p 24.2p
The calculation of business performance, a supplemental non-IFRS measure, is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, ‘Presentation
of the financial statements’.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 167
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
drocer
laicnaniF
Financial record
continued
Income statement – total 12 months 2007 Q4 2007 Q3 2007 Q2 2007 Q1 2007
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 19,233 – (4) 5,047 (2) (2) 4,605 (2) (6) 4,775 – (5) 4,806 3 (5)
– Consumer Healthcare 3,483 14 11 927 11 13 871 16 14 899 18 14 786 9 2
Total turnover 22,716 2 (2) 5,974 – – 5,476 1 (3) 5,674 3 (2) 5,592 4 (4)
Cost of sales (5,317) 8 6 (1,639) 13 13 (1,232) 2 1 (1,212) 3 – (1,234) 14 9
Selling, general and administrative (6,954) – (4) (1,823) (6) (6) (1,617) 3 – (1,841) 3 (2) (1,673) (1) (8)
Research and development (3,327) (1) (4) (1,043) 7 6 (769) (9) (12) (789) (4) (8) (726) 2 (4)
Other operating income 475 119 52 97 207
Operating profit 7,593 3 (3) 1,588 (7) (7) 1,910 (1) (6) 1,929 9 1 2,166 11 –
Finance income 262 52 75 77 58
Finance costs (453) (119) (117) (121) (96)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 50 10 14 11 15
Profit before taxation 7,452 2 (4) 1,531 (11) (10) 1,882 (2) (7) 1,896 8 – 2,143 10 1
Taxation (2,142) (455) (536) (541) (610)
Tax rate % 28.7% 29.7% 28.5% 28.5% 28.5%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,310 3 (3) 1,076 (11) (11) 1,346 (1) (6) 1,355 10 1 1,533 11 –
Profit attributable to minority interests 96 19 36 22 19
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,214 1,057 1,310 1,333 1,514
Basic earnings per share (pence) 94.4p 5 (1) 19.6p (7) (7) 23.7p 1 (4) 24.0p 11 3 27.0p 14 2
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 93.7p 19.4p 23.5p 23.7p 26.7p
Income statement – business performance
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals 19,233 – (4) 5,047 (2) (2)
– Consumer Healthcare 3,483 14 11 927 11 13
Total turnover 22,716 2 (2) 5,974 – –
Cost of sales (5,206) 6 4 (1,528) 5 6
Selling, general and administrative (6,817) (2) (6) (1,686) (13) (13)
Research and development (3,237) (3) (6) (953) (2) (3)
Other operating income 475 119
Operating profit 7,931 8 2 1,926 14 13
Finance income 262 52
Finance costs (453) (119)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 50 10
Profit before taxation 7,790 6 – 1,869 10 9
Taxation (2,219) (532)
Tax rate % 28.5% 28.5%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,571 8 1 1,337 12 11
Profit attributable to minority interests 96 19
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,475 1,318
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 99.1p 10 4 24.4p 17 16
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 98.3p 24.2p168 I GSK Annual Report 2007
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
drocer
laicnaniF
Financial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover – total Group
Q4 2007 Q3 2007 Q2 2007 Q1 2007
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 1,363 8 7 1,185 4 – 1,260 8 2 1,224 1 (6)
Seretide/Advair 958 12 11 835 7 3 871 12 6 835 11 2
Flixotide/Flovent 175 2 2 140 1 (3) 151 (2) (8) 155 (4) (13)
Serevent 71 (5) (4) 63 (6) (9) 70 (1) (5) 65 (5) (12)
Flixonase/Flonase 32 (35) (33) 49 (23) (23) 55 (15) (19) 63 (49) (52)
Central nervous system 899 1 (2) 825 (4) (10) 828 (3) (10) 796 (2) (11)
Seroxat/Paxil 151 (7) (7) 128 (2) (7) 140 (4) (12) 134 (9) (17)
Paxil IR 112 (2) (1) 92 (7) (11) 103 (8) (16) 93 (8) (15)
Paxil CR 39 (18) (22) 36 12 6 37 8 – 41 (10) (20)
Wellbutrin 130 (36) (39) 135 (38) (42) 132 (40) (44) 132 (33) (39)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 16 (32) (36) 21 (15) (19) 15 (41) (44) 23 – (4)
Wellbutrin XL 114 (36) (39) 114 (41) (45) 117 (40) (44) 109 (37) (44)
Imigran/Imitrex 187 11 7 165 (2) (8) 167 2 (5) 166 1 (9)
Lamictal 301 21 17 275 14 7 271 18 11 250 11 5
Requip 95 26 25 87 31 24 84 41 31 80 50 38
Anti-virals 791 13 12 714 6 2 755 11 5 768 20 10
HIV 359 (1) – 360 3 (1) 364 (3) (7) 359 (3) (10)
Combivir 108 (10) (9) 115 (4) (8) 117 (13) (17) 115 (13) (20)
Trizivir 56 (10) (8) 55 (8) (13) 60 (13) (17) 62 (7) (14)
Epivir 37 (16) (14) 38 (13) (17) 40 (21) (25) 41 (27) (32)
Ziagen 28 (4) – 28 4 – 27 (3) (7) 26 (9) (19)
Agenerase, Lexiva 36 9 6 37 19 16 33 9 3 35 15 6
Epzicom/Kivexa 90 29 30 80 33 27 79 43 36 75 57 47
Herpes 283 19 17 256 12 6 252 11 3 250 17 6
Valtrex 255 23 20 229 13 7 226 14 6 224 22 10
Zovirax 28 (10) (7) 27 4 – 26 (10) (16) 26 (13) (19)
Zeffix 42 (2) – 42 5 – 44 15 10 40 16 5
Relenza 75 >100 >100 28 (7) (7) 67 >100 >100 92 >100 >100
Metabolic 321 (33) (32) 297 (29) (32) 420 (16) (21) 476 21 10
Avandia 160 (52) (51) 153 (51) (53) 249 (35) (39) 315 1 (8)
Avandamet 64 (7) (6) 60 39 36 85 41 33 83 >100 >100
Avandaryl 7 (57) (50) 12 18 9 15 >100 >100 16 50 33
Bonviva/Boniva 52 59 53 41 56 52 36 >100 89 32 >100 >100
Vaccines 634 18 20 593 49 44 398 6 3 368 6 1
Hepatitis 147 13 15 141 29 24 128 10 6 113 4 (3)
Influenza 174 62 63 141 >100 >100 4 (43) (43) 1 – –
Infanrix, Pediarix 137 (2) 1 137 16 12 135 9 5 134 15 8
Boostrix 13 (28) (28) 26 56 44 14 – – 13 40 30
Rotarix 39 70 70 23 >100 >100 15 >100 >100 14 >100 100
Cervarix 9 – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 298 (31) (29) 378 (2) (7) 439 22 15 439 13 3
Coreg 23 (91) (88) 145 (20) (26) 202 37 26 217 8 (4)
Coreg CR 33 – – 31 – – 10 – – 14 – –
Coreg IR (10) – – 114 (37) (42) 192 30 20 203 1 (10)
Levitra 11 – (8) 13 18 18 11 44 22 14 36 27
Avodart 83 36 36 72 33 26 67 39 31 63 47 34
Arixtra 29 43 38 25 100 92 26 >100 100 20 100 82
Fraxiparine 51 (9) (4) 41 (16) (16) 45 (18) (20) 47 (6) (8)
Vesicare 14 67 56 13 56 44 12 86 71 11 71 57
Anti-bacterials 370 2 5 302 (2) (3) 310 (2) (5) 348 (3) (8)
Augmentin 146 (2) 1 117 (2) (3) 120 (8) (10) 147 (9) (14)
Oncology and emesis 100 (54) (53) 104 (61) (63) 126 (55) (56) 147 (45) (49)
Zofran 22 (88) (87) 32 (86) (86) 55 (76) (76) 87 (60) (62)
Hycamtin 31 11 11 30 11 7 28 4 – 30 14 3
Tykerb 19 – – 16 – – 12 – – 4 – –
Other 271 4 5 207 (9) (10) 239 3 – 240 5 (4)
Zantac 43 (22) (22) 37 (25) (27) 40 (31) (34) 48 (18) (26)
Total 5,047 (2) (2) 4,605 (2) (6). 4,775 – (5) 4,806 3 (5)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 169
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
drocer
laicnaniF
Financial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover – USA
Q4 2007 Q3 2007 Q2 2007 Q1 2007
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 632 7 3 570 4 (4) 593 10 2 582 (3) (13)
Seretide/Advair 513 9 4 452 5 (3) 467 11 3 459 12 –
Flixotide/Flovent 81 8 3 67 13 5 65 3 (6) 71 (8) (17)
Serevent 19 (9) (14) 18 (5) (10) 18 (5) (14) 19 (9) (17)
Flixonase/Flonase 1 – – 21 (41) (46) 25 (26) (26) 25 (72) (73)
Central nervous system 637 1 (3) 589 (4) (11) 586 (2) (9) 565 1 (9)
Seroxat/Paxil 39 (18) (20) 33 9 – 34 (8) (15) 37 (23) (30)
Paxil IR 5 33 67 – – – 2 (75) (75) – – –
Paxil CR 34 (22) (26) 33 13 6 32 9 – 37 (13) (21)
Wellbutrin 125 (38) (40) 131 (38) (43) 128 (41) (45) 128 (33) (40)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 13 (41) (41) 18 (14) (18) 12 (46) (50) 20 – (5)
Wellbutrin XL 112 (37) (40) 113 (41) (45) 116 (40) (44) 108 (37) (44)
Imigran/Imitrex 153 16 11 133 – (8) 136 10 1 136 13 1
Lamictal 247 27 21 224 20 11 221 28 19 200 29 15
Requip 64 29 23 59 39 28 59 54 44 56 70 51
Anti-virals 392 23 18 351 12 4 366 15 6 385 28 14
HIV 155 (4) (8) 159 2 (5) 159 (5) (13) 164 1 (10)
Combivir 45 (16) (20) 50 (7) (12) 50 (13) (21) 50 (10) (19)
Trizivir 28 (9) (13) 28 (9) (18) 32 (11) (16) 32 (3) (14)
Epivir 13 (7) (13) 14 (6) (13) 12 (22) (33) 14 (25) (30)
Ziagen 11 – (8) 12 18 9 11 – (8) 11 (8) (15)
Agenerase, Lexiva 19 – – 20 22 11 19 11 6 20 21 5
Epzicom/Kivexa 37 18 12 34 19 10 36 22 13 35 34 21
Herpes 184 24 19 166 13 4 162 15 7 166 28 14
Valtrex 181 26 21 162 11 3 161 16 8 164 29 15
Zovirax 3 (50) (25) 4 >100 100 1 (50) (50) 2 – –
Zeffix 3 33 – 4 (25) – 3 33 – 3 – –
Relenza 41 – – 12 >100 >100 34 >100 – 44 >100 >100
Metabolic 166 (47) (48) 160 (41) (45) 252 (27) (32) 317 20 7
Avandia 99 (59) (60) 92 (60) (62) 169 (42) (46) 232 (2) (12)
Avandamet 26 (19) (19) 29 >100 >100 45 30 22 47 >100 >100
Avandaryl 5 (71) (64) 9 – (10) 12 >100 >100 15 33 25
Bonviva/Boniva 38 39 36 28 24 12 26 75 63 23 86 64
Vaccines 204 29 26 237 97 82 105 27 17 82 11 (1)
Hepatitis 54 28 26 66 82 69 47 21 12 32 – (14)
Influenza 99 68 68 93 >100 >100 – – – – – –
Infanrix, Pediarix 44 (4) (6) 58 40 29 51 44 31 43 17 5
Boostrix 6 (54) (54) 20 50 43 7 (11) (22) 7 60 40
Rotarix – – – – – – – – – – – –
Cervarix – – – – – – – – – – – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 136 (51) (52) 239 (4) (11) 292 39 28 303 15 3
Coreg 23 (91) (88) 144 (21) (25) 199 37 26 215 7 (4)
Coreg CR 34 – – 31 – – 9 – – 14 – –
Coreg IR (11) – – 113 (38) (41) 190 30 20 201 – (10)
Levitra 11 – (8) 12 33 33 11 50 38 13 50 30
Avodart 49 44 36 45 27 22 40 47 33 41 64 46
Arixtra 16 42 33 14 >100 100 14 >100 >100 11 71 57
Fraxiparine – – – – – – – – – – – –
Vesicare 14 67 56 13 56 44 12 86 71 11 71 57
Anti-bacterials 52 (5) (9) 41 (15) (21) 49 17 7 53 (6) (15)
Augmentin 15 (36) (40) 11 (40) (45) 17 (6) (6) 24 (13) (23)
Oncology and emesis 45 (72) (72) 52 (74) (77) 75 (65) (67) 100 (52) (56)
Zofran (7) – – 4 (98) (98) 25 (86) (86) 56 (67) (69)
Hycamtin 17 – (6) 18 12 6 16 – (6) 19 10 (5)
Tykerb 12 – – 11 – – 10 – – 3 – –
Other 33 89 83 (9) – – 9 (59) (59) 32 44 28
Zantac 7 (56) (56) 5 (69) (69) 5 (74) (74) 16 (14) (24)
Total 2,297 (8) (12) 2,230 (7) (13) 2,327 (2) (9) 2,419 3 (7)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.170 I GSK Annual Report 2007
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
drocer
laicnaniF
Financial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover – Europe
Q4 2007 Q3 2007 Q2 2007 Q1 2007
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 478 5 10 410 2 3 452 4 2 432 3 2
Seretide/Advair 336 10 15 293 8 8 313 8 7 294 8 7
Flixotide/Flovent 44 – 5 34 (13) (13) 41 (9) (9) 42 (9) (11)
Serevent 35 – 6 32 (9) (9) 35 (3) (3) 32 (8) (11)
Flixonase/Flonase 12 – 9 10 10 – 16 (6) (6) 13 – –
Central nervous system 133 (8) (4) 124 (13) (13) 128 (14) (16) 128 (21) (22)
Seroxat/Paxil 29 (23) (17) 27 (23) (23) 32 (13) (16) 34 (17) (17)
Paxil IR 29 (23) (17) 27 (23) (23) 32 (13) (16) 34 (17) (17)
Paxil CR – – – – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin 1 – – 2 100 100 – – – 1 – –
Wellbutrin IR, SR – – – 1 – – – – – 1 – –
Wellbutrin XL 1 – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Imigran/Imitrex 24 (8) (4) 22 (19) (15) 22 (27) (27) 21 (41) (43)
Lamictal 38 (10) (3) 36 (12) (14) 36 (22) (22) 35 (25) (27)
Requip 25 14 19 23 10 10 22 10 10 21 11 11
Anti-virals 207 (7) (2) 207 (5) (5) 230 7 6 226 11 8
HIV 156 1 7 148 – (1) 156 (3) (4) 152 (5) (7)
Combivir 45 (10) (6) 47 (10) (10) 51 (12) (12) 49 (15) (17)
Trizivir 25 (8) – 23 (19) (15) 24 (10) (17) 27 (16) (16)
Epivir 15 (22) (17) 16 (24) (24) 18 (24) (28) 18 (31) (31)
Ziagen 9 (10) (10) 9 (10) (10) 10 (10) – 9 (9) (18)
Agenerase, Lexiva 14 8 17 13 17 8 13 8 8 13 8 8
Epzicom/Kivexa 43 45 48 37 42 42 36 57 57 33 79 74
Herpes 41 6 14 36 3 – 38 6 6 36 3 –
Valtrex 33 11 22 29 7 4 30 7 7 28 12 8
Zovirax 8 (11) (11) 7 (13) (13) 8 – – 8 (20) (20)
Zeffix 6 – – 6 – – 6 – – 6 20 20
Relenza 4 (91) (82) 14 (44) (44) 26 >100 >100 32 >100 >100
Metabolic 79 7 14 65 2 2 79 31 30 71 24 22
Avandia 25 (20) (17) 26 (17) (13) 31 (3) (6) 31 (3) (3)
Avandamet 31 7 15 23 (8) (8) 31 52 48 26 37 37
Avandaryl 1 – – 1 – – 1 – – – – –
Bonviva/Boniva 15 >100 >100 11 >100 >100 10 >100 >100 9 >100 >100
Vaccines 258 24 29 206 22 22 178 3 2 172 6 4
Hepatitis 65 3 8 55 2 2 59 5 2 56 2 2
Influenza 56 >100 >100 37 >100 >100 – – – – – –
Infanrix, Pediarix 74 (4) 3 62 (5) (5) 66 (13) (13) 73 10 7
Boostrix 5 – – 5 67 67 5 25 25 4 33 33
Rotarix 7 >100 >100 6 >100 >100 6 >100 >100 4 – –
Cervarix 9 – – – – – – – – – – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 113 5 12 96 (1) – 103 3 1 100 6 4
Coreg – – – – – – – – – – – –
Coreg CR – – – – – – – – – – – –
Coreg IR – – – – – – – – – – – –
Levitra 2 – – – – – – – – – – –
Avodart 26 26 37 21 29 24 21 24 24 18 13 13
Arixtra 11 57 57 9 33 50 10 83 67 9 >100 >100
Fraxiparine 43 (9) (2) 35 (20) (20) 40 (15) (15) 42 (2) (5)
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Anti-bacterials 176 2 7 130 (4) (4) 131 (11) (12) 175 (1) (3)
Augmentin 71 1 6 54 – – 52 (20) (19) 73 (10) (12)
Oncology and emesis 38 9 15 35 (8) (5) 34 (17) (19) 32 (20) (22)
Zofran 17 (24) (19) 17 (32) (32) 17 (42) (45) 20 (33) (33)
Hycamtin 12 25 50 11 10 10 10 22 11 9 29 29
Tykerb 5 – – 5 – – 2 – – 1 – –
Other 80 (4) – 63 2 3 67 6 5 56 (3) (3)
Zantac 11 (23) (15) 10 (9) (9) 11 (14) (21) 10 (29) (29)
Total 1,562 4 9 1,336 1 1 1,402 1 - 1,392 1 –
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.GSK Annual Report 2007 I 171
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
drocer
laicnaniF
Financial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover – International
Q4 2007 Q3 2007 Q2 2007 Q1 2007
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 253 12 15 205 8 6 215 8 3 210 10 (2)
Seretide/Advair 109 37 43 90 15 15 91 25 20 82 14 3
Flixotide/Flovent 50 (6) (2) 39 (5) (7) 45 (4) (10) 42 7 (7)
Serevent 17 (11) (11) 13 – (7) 17 6 – 14 7 (7)
Flixonase/Flonase 19 – (5) 18 – 20 14 – (18) 25 17 4
Central nervous system 129 9 9 112 5 2 114 2 (7) 103 6 (6)
Seroxat/Paxil 83 8 5 68 3 (1) 74 1 (9) 63 7 (6)
Paxil IR 78 7 4 65 3 (2) 69 1 (9) 59 6 (6)
Paxil CR 5 25 25 3 – – 5 – – 4 25 –
Wellbutrin 4 25 – 2 (50) (50) 4 (20) (20) 3 – –
Wellbutrin IR, SR 3 33 – 2 (33) (33) 3 – – 2 – –
Wellbutrin XL 1 – – – – – 1 (50) (50) 1 – –
Imigran/Imitrex 10 (9) (9) 10 10 – 9 (9) (18) 9 – (10)
Lamictal 16 21 14 15 – 7 14 15 8 15 13 –
Requip 6 67 100 5 67 67 3 67 – 3 50 50
Anti-virals 192 18 18 156 11 7 159 9 1 157 15 3
HIV 48 4 4 53 17 15 49 6 2 43 (7) (20)
Combivir 18 13 20 18 25 13 16 (20) (20) 16 (14) (27)
Trizivir 3 (25) (25) 4 >100 100 4 (40) (20) 3 33 –
Epivir 9 (20) (10) 8 – (11) 10 (10) – 9 (21) (36)
Ziagen 8 – 33 7 – – 6 – (14) 6 (13) (25)
Agenerase, Lexiva 3 67 – 4 – – 1 – (50) 2 – –
Epzicom/Kivexa 10 14 43 9 67 50 7 >100 >100 7 >100 >100
Herpes 58 13 12 54 15 17 52 2 (10) 48 (4) (13)
Valtrex 41 20 17 38 28 31 35 8 (5) 32 – (9)
Zovirax 17 – – 16 (6) (6) 17 (10) (19) 16 (10) (20)
Zeffix 33 (6) – 32 9 – 35 16 13 31 17 3
Relenza 30 >100 100 2 – (67) 7 – – 16 >100 >100
Metabolic 76 (13) (10) 72 (13) (15) 89 (3) (7) 88 21 9
Avandia 36 (33) (25) 35 (27) (31) 49 (17) (18) 52 23 11
Avandamet 7 (11) (22) 8 – 33 9 67 50 10 >100 100
Avandaryl 1 – – 2 100 100 2 – – 1 – –
Bonviva/Boniva (1) – – 2 – >100 – – – – – –
Vaccines 172 1 4 150 35 33 115 (3) (6) 114 3 (3)
Hepatitis 28 12 12 20 – (5) 22 – 5 25 17 4
Influenza 19 (20) (24) 11 10 10 4 (57) (43) 1 – –
Infanrix, Pediarix 19 12 12 17 33 42 18 36 29 18 27 20
Boostrix 2 – – 1 100 – 2 – 100 2 – –
Rotarix 32 60 60 17 >100 >100 9 >100 >100 10 57 43
Cervarix – – – – – – – – – – – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 49 26 26 43 10 5 44 (13) (17) 36 11 –
Coreg – – – 1 50 (50) 3 – 50 2 100 100
Coreg CR (1) – – – – – 1 – – – – –
Coreg IR 1 – – 1 – (50) 2 – – 2 100 100
Levitra (2) – – 1 (50) (50) – – – 1 – –
Avodart 8 17 33 6 >100 100 6 50 50 4 67 33
Arixtra 2 – – 2 – – 2 – 100 – – –
Fraxiparine 8 (11) (11) 6 20 20 5 (33) (44) 5 (29) (29)
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – –
Anti-bacterials 142 6 7 131 6 6 130 2 (1) 120 (3) (12)
Augmentin 60 9 13 52 11 11 51 6 (2) 50 (5) (11)
Oncology and emesis 17 (6) (6) 17 (5) (11) 17 (14) (19) 15 (27) (32)
Zofran 12 (21) (14) 11 (8) (15) 13 (13) (13) 11 (37) (42)
Hycamtin 2 50 – 1 – – 2 (50) – 2 – –
Tykerb 2 – – – – – – – – – – –
Other 158 (2) (1) 153 5 2 163 11 7 152 2 (8)
Zantac 25 – (4) 22 (4) (8) 24 (11) (14) 22 (17) (27)
Total 1,188 6 8 1,039 9 6 1,046 3 (2) 995 7 4
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.172 I GSK Annual Report 2007
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
drocer
laicnaniF
Financial record
continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the Five year
record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board.
Turnover by business segment 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 19,233 20,078 18,661 17,100 18,114
Consumer Healthcare 3,483 3,147 2,999 2,886 2,956
22,716 23,225 21,660 19,986 21,070
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 5,032 4,995 5,054 4,394 4,390
Central nervous system 3,348 3,642 3,219 3,462 4,446
Anti-virals 3,028 2,827 2,598 2,359 2,345
Metabolic 1,514 1,875 1,495 1,251 1,077
Vaccines 1,993 1,692 1,389 1,194 1,121
Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,554 1,636 1,331 932 770
Anti-bacterials 1,330 1,369 1,519 1,547 1,800
Oncology and emesis 477 1,069 1,016 934 1,000
Other 957 973 1,040 1,027 1,165
19,233 20,078 18,661 17,100 18,114
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic area 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
USA 9,273 10,353 9,106 8,425 9,410
Europe 5,692 5,547 5,537 5,084 5,050
International:
Asia Pacific 1,441 1,377 1,324 1,161 1,138
Japan 867 860 854 769 751
Middle East, Africa 774 744 746 669 693
Latin America 709 714 651 581 598
Canada 477 483 443 411 474
International 4,268 4,178 4,018 3,591 3,654
19,233 20,078 18,661 17,100 18,114
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
Consumer Healthcare turnover 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
OTC medicines 1,718 1,496 1,437 1,400 1,472
Oral care 1,049 993 943 913 915
Nutritional healthcare 716 658 619 573 569
3,483 3,147 2,999 2,886 2,956GSK Annual Report 2007 I 173
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
drocer
laicnaniF
Financial record
continued
Financial results - total 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 22,716 23,225 21,660 19,986 21,070
Operating profit 7,593 7,808 6,874 5,756 6,050
Profit before taxation 7,452 7,799 6,732 5,779 5,954
Profit after taxation 5,310 5,498 4,816 4,022 4,308
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 94.4p 95.5p 82.6p 68.1p 72.3p
Diluted earnings per share 93.7p 94.5p 82.0p 68.0p 72.1p
Financial results - business performance 2007
£m
Turnover 22,716
Operating profit 7,931
Profit before taxation 7,790
Profit after taxation 5,571
pence
Adjusted earnings per share 99.1p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share 98.3p
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,524 5,643 5,674 5,736 5,806
Diluted 5,567 5,700 5,720 5,748 5,824
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 76.2 90.6 99.7 100.2 116.6
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed over the year.
Balance sheet 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 17,377 14,561 14,021 12,164 11,622
Current assets 13,626 10,992 13,177 10,780 10,298
Total assets 31,003 25,553 27,198 22,944 21,920
Current liabilities (10,345) (7,265) (9,511) (8,564) (8,314)
Non-current liabilities (10,748) (8,640) (10,117) (8,443) (8,008)
Total liabilities (21,093) (15,905) (19,628) (17,007) (16,322)
Net assets 9,910 9,648 7,570 5,937 5,598
Shareholders’ equity 9,603 9,386 7,311 5,724 4,917
Minority interests 307 262 259 213 681
Total equity 9,910 9,648 7,570 5,937 5,598174 I GSK Annual Report 2007
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
drocer
laicnaniF
Financial record
continued
Number of employees
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
USA 24,838 24,726 23,822 23,782 24,036
Europe 46,869 45,758 43,999 44,679 44,559
International:
Asia Pacific 17,525 17,570 15,991 16,109 18,373
Japan 3,284 3,195 3,098 2,965 2,842
Middle East, Africa 3,156 3,204 5,682 5,134 3,400
Latin America 5,249 5,856 5,664 5,603 5,916
Canada 2,562 2,386 2,472 1,747 1,793
International 31,776 32,211 32,907 31,558 32,324
103,483 102,695 100,728 100,019 100,919
Manufacturing 33,995 33,235 31,615 31,143 32,459
Selling 44,499 44,484 44,393 44,646 43,978
Administration 8,960 9,024 9,225 9,193 9,550
Research and development 16,029 15,952 15,495 15,037 14,932
103,483 102,695 100,728 100,019 100,919
The number of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who
are employed and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars
for Sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
2007 2006 2005 2004 2003
Average 2.00 1.85 1.81 1.84 1.63
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month during the year.
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2008 2008 2007 2007 2007 2007
High 1.98 1.99 2.07 2.11 2.08 2.04
Low 1.94 1.95 1.98 2.05 2.03 1.99
The noon buying rate on 22nd February 2008 was £1= US$1.97.Shareholder information
Share price Dividends per ADS
The table below sets out the dividends per ADS in US dollars
2007 2006 2005 in the last five years, translated into US dollars at applicable
£m £m £m
exchange rates.
At 1st January 13.44 14.69 12.22
High during the year 14.93 15.77 15.44 Year US$
Low during the year 11.60 13.26 11.75 2007 2.14
At 31st December 12.79 13.44 14.69 2006 1.80
(Decrease)/increase (5)% (9)% 20% 2005 1.57
2004 1.53
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices derived
2003 1.39
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List. The company’s
share price decreased by 5% in 2007 from a price of £13.44 at 1st
January 2007 to £12.79 at 31st December 2007. This compares with
Dividend calendar
an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 4% during the year. The share
Fourth quarter 2007
price on 22nd February 2008 was £11.10.
Ex-dividend date 13th February 2008
Market capitalisation
Record date 15th February 2008
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding Treasury
Payable 10th April 2008
shares, of GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December 2007 was £70 billion. At
that date GSK was the fifth largest company by market capitalisation
First quarter 2008
on the FTSE index.
Ex-dividend date 30th April 2008
SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured Record date 2nd May 2008
Loan Stock 1990/2010 Payable 10th July 2008
The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may require
SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at par, i.e. £1 for Second quarter 2008
every £1 of loan stock held, on the first business day of March, June, Ex-dividend date 30th July 2008
September and December. Holders wishing to redeem all or part of Record date 1st August 2008
their loan stock should complete the notice on the back of their loan Payable 9th October 2008
stock certificate and return it to the registrar, to arrive at least 30 days
before the relevant redemption date.
Third quarter 2008
Taxation Ex-dividend date 29th October 2008
Record date 31st October 2008
General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of share
Payable 8th January 2009
ownership is set out in ‘Taxation information for shareholders’
on page 179.
Internet
Dividends Information about the company including details of the share price
is available on GSK’s website at www.gsk.com.
GlaxoSmithKline pays dividends quarterly. It continues to increase
cash returns to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends Information made available on the website does not constitute part
remain an essential component of total shareholder return and GSK of this Annual Report.
is committed to increasing its dividend over the long-term. Details of
the dividends declared, the amount and the payment dates are given Investor relations
in Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
Investor Relations may be contacted as follows:
Dividends per share
UK
The table below sets out the dividends per share in the last
980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
five years. Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Year pence USA
One Franklin Plaza, PO Box 7929, Philadelphia PA 19101
2007 53
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
2006 48
Tel: +1 215 751 4000 (outside US)
2005 44
2004 42
2003 41
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 175
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
noitamrofnI
redloherahSShareholder information
continued
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2007
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 126,330 71 1 45,130,222
1,001 to 5,000 39,861 23 1 85,399,100
5,001 to 100,000 9,480 5 2 136,988,653
100,001 to 1,000,000 970 1 6 334,350,551
Over 1,000,000 457 – 90 5,410,718,500
177,098 100 100 6,012,587,026
Held by
Nominee companies 30,647 17 73 4,355,052,360
Investment and trust companies 44 – 1 32,448,597
Insurance companies 13 – – 109,152
Individuals and other corporate bodies 146,391 83 4 266,773,798
BNY (Nominees) Limited 2 – 14 854,008,961
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 – 8 504,194,158
177,098 100 100 6,012,587,026
The Bank of New York Mellon’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each ADS
represents two Ordinary shares of 25p nominal value. At 22nd February 2008, BNY (Nominees) Limited held 854,735,903 Ordinary shares
representing 15.59% of the issued share capital at that date.
At 22nd February 2008, the number of holders of shares in the USA was 1,108 with holdings of 1,393,956 shares, and the number of
registered holders of the ADRs was 37,026 with holdings of 427,367,951 ADRs. Certain of these shares and ADRs were held by brokers or
other nominees. As a result the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of beneficial
holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
Documents on display
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company and other documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for
inspection at the Registered Office of the company.
Publications
In late March 2008 GSK will publish on the website its Corporate Responsibility Report covering performance in areas including community
investment, ethics and integrity, access to medicines, R&D and environment health and safety.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends or
other payments to holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. There are no limitations relating only to non-residents
of the UK under English law or the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote in respect
of, the company’s shares.
176 I GSK Annual Report 2007
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
noitamrofnI
redloherahSShareholder information
continued
Nature of trading market Annual General Meeting 2008
The Ordinary shares of the company were listed on the London Stock
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 21st May 2008
Exchange on 27th December 2000. The shares were also listed on
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) (in the form of American
London SW1P 3EE
Depositary Shares ‘ADSs’) from the same date.
The Annual General Meeting is the company’s principal forum for
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and
communication with private shareholders. In addition to the formal
low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the
business there will be a presentation by the Chief Executive Officer
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low last reported sales
on the performance of the Group and its future development. There
prices in US dollars for the ADSs on the NYSE.
will be opportunity for questions to the Board, and the Chairmen
of the Board’s committees will take questions on matters relating to
GlaxoSmithKline Pence per share those committees.
High Low
Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service
Quarter ended 31st March 2008* 1385 1070
should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a
February 2008* 1184 1070
corporate representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding in
January 2008 1385 1174
order to attend and vote at the meeting.
December 2007 1323 1272
November 2007 1288 1160 ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
from The Bank of New York Mellon which will enable them to
October 2007 1333 1232
attend and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders may
September 2007 1341 1297
instruct The Bank of New York Mellon as to the way in which the
Quarter ended 31st December 2007 1333 1160
shares represented by their ADRs should be voted by completing and
Quarter ended 30th September 2007 1341 1215
returning the voting card provided by the bank in accordance with
Quarter ended 30th June 2007 1488 1272
the instructions given.
Quarter ended 31st March 2007 1493 1344
Quarter ended 31st December 2006 1511 1326
Financial reporting
Quarter ended 30th September 2006 1540 1418
Quarter ended 30th June 2006 1557 1455 Financial reporting calendar 2008
Quarter ended 31st March 2006 1577 1424 Announcement of 1st Quarter Results April 2008
Year ended 31st December 2005 1544 1175
Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results July 2008
Year ended 31st December 2004 1299 1042
Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results October 2008
Year ended 31st December 2003 1390 1000
Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results February 2009
US dollars per ADS Publication of Annual Report/Review February/March 2009
High Low
Quarter ended 31st March 2008* 54.36 42.16 Results announcements
February 2008* 47.01 42.16 Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
January 2008 54.36 46.77 and are available on its news service. Shortly afterwards, they are
December 2007 53.93 50.39 issued to the media, are made available on the website and sent to
November 2007 52.68 47.87 the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE.
October 2007 54.14 50.52 Financial reports
September 2007 54.23 52.22 The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not
Quarter ended 31st December 2007 54.14 47.87 needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review. These are
Quarter ended 30th September 2007 54.23 49.43 available from the date of publication on the website.
Quarter ended 30th June 2007 59.35 51.28
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders. Shareholders may
Quarter ended 31st March 2007 58.37 52.66
also elect to receive the Annual Report by writing to the company’s
Quarter ended 31st December 2006 56.20 51.41
registrars. Alternatively shareholders may elect to receive notification
Quarter ended 30th September 2006 57.01 53.23
by email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
Quarter ended 30th June 2006 58.38 51.48
www.shareview.co.uk.
Quarter ended 31st March 2006 54.94 50.15
Year ended 31st December 2005 53.53 44.48 Copies of previous financial reports are available on GSK’s website.
Year ended 31st December 2004 47.50 39.04 Printed copies can be obtained from the registrars in the UK and from
Year ended 31st December 2003 47.40 32.75 the GSK Response Center in the USA.
Queries relating to receipt of duplicate copies of GSK’s publications
* to 22nd February 2008
should be addressed to the registrars.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 177
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
noitamrofnI
redloherahSOrdinary shares
The company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Registrar
The company’s registrars are:
Equiniti
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0871 384 2991 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK
Equiniti also provide the following services:
• G laxoSmithKline Investment Plan
• G laxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account
• G laxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee
• S hareview service
• S hareview dealing service
• D ividend reinvestment plan
Shareview dealing service
Shareholders may buy or sell shares by internet or telephone through
Shareview dealing, a share dealing service provided by Equiniti. For
internet purchases and sales log on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing
and for telephone purchases and sales call 0871 384 2020 (inside the
UK only) between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414141
The provision of the details above is not intended to be an invitation
or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share
dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent
financial adviser.
American Depositary Shares
The company’s shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American
Depositary Shares and these are evidenced by American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs), each one of which represents two Ordinary shares.
In general, the NYSE’s rules permit the company to follow UK
corporate governance practices instead of those that apply in the
USA, provided that the company explains any significant variations.
This explanation is provided on the company’s website.
ADR programme administrator
The ADR programme is administered by:
The Bank of New York Mellon
Shareholder Relations
PO Box 11258, Church Street Station
New York NY 10286-1258
www.adrbny.com
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 212 815 3700 (outside US)
The administrators also provide Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
GSK Response Center
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
178 I GSK Annual Report 2007
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
noitamrofni
redloherahS
Shareholder information
continuedTaxation information for shareholders
Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both UK inheritance tax
A summary of the main tax consequences for
and US estate or gift tax. The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would
holders of shares and ADRs who are citizens generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited against tax
or residents of the UK or the USA is set out payable in the UK.
below. It is not a complete analysis of all the Stamp duty
possible tax consequences of purchase or UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to
certain exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate
ownership of these securities. It is intended
of 0.5% of the purchase price. There is a minimum charge of £5
only as a general guide. Holders are advised
where a stamp duty liability arises.
to consult their advisers with respect to
US shareholders
the tax consequences of the purchase and
ownership of their shares or ADRs, and the The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA federal
consequences under state and local tax income tax considerations that may be relevant to a US holder of
shares or ADRs. This summary only applies to a shareholder that
laws in the USA and the implications of the
holds shares or ADRs as capital assets, is a citizen or resident of the
current UK/US Income Tax convention. USA or a domestic corporation or that is otherwise subject to United
States federal income taxation on a net income basis in respect of
the shares or ADRs, and is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes
This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices at
and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or
the date of this report.
vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of the
Taxation of dividends
underlying shares for the purposes of the current US/UK double
The gross amount of dividends received (without reduction for any
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
UK withholding tax) is treated as foreign source dividend income for
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention)
US tax purposes. It is not eligible for the dividend received deduction
and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
allowed to US corporations. Dividends on ADRs are payable in US
amended (the Code).
dollars; dividends on shares are payable in Sterling. Dividends paid in
UK shareholders pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount
calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends
Taxation of dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain exceptions for short-
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one ninth. term or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be
As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax on dividend subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of
income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK resident individual qualified dividends received before 2011. Shareholders are advised
shareholders. Tax credits are, however, no longer repayable to to consult their own Tax Advisers to confirm their eligibility.
shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
Taxation of capital gains
Taxation of capital gains Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other
of shares or ADRs. For disposals made prior to 6th April 2008, they disposal of shares or ADRs.
may also be entitled to indexation relief and taper relief on such
Estate and gift taxes
sales. Indexation relief is calculated on the market value of shares
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
at 31st March 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent purchases
generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
from the date of such purchase. Indexation relief for individual
shareholders ceased on 5th April 1998. Taper relief is available to Stamp duty
individual shareholders who hold or are deemed to hold shares for UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be
at least three years before they are sold. A capital gain is taxed at the payable on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or
marginal tax rate of the individual. For disposals after 5th April 2008 depository at a rate of 1.5% of their price (if issued), the amount of
it is proposed that no indexation or taper relief will be available and any consideration provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if
that a capital gain will be taxed at a flat rate of 18% rather than the transferred for no consideration).
marginal tax rate of the individual. These proposals are not yet law
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK stamp
and may be subject to change.
duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided that the
Inheritance tax instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR would be payable
of shares or ADRs. Tax may be charged on the amount by which the at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer. Any sale of the
value of the shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result of any transfer underlying shares would result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the
by way of gift or other disposal at less than full market value. case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%. There is a minimum charge of
£5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 179
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
sredloherahs
rof
noitamrofni
noitaxaTGlossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay the
charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two Ordinary shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Ordinary shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called-up share capital Ordinary shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of
the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Statement of recognised income and expense Statement of comprehensive income.
Subsidiary An entity in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
180 I GSK Annual Report 2007
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
smret
fo
yrassolGIndex
Page Page
2007 performance overview 10 Intellectual property 28
Accounting policies 94 Interest rate risk management 49
Acquisitions and disposals 131 Internal control framework 66
Annual General Meeting 65 Inventories 116
Annual Remuneration 79 Investments in associates and joint ventures 114
Assets held for sale 116 Investor information 165
Associates and joint ventures 107,114 Key performance indicators 10
Being the best place for the best people to do their Key accounting judgements and estimates 98
best work 22 Legal proceedings 152
Board 60 Movements in equity 128
Business review 9 Net debt 125
Cash and cash equivalents 116 New accounting requirements 99
Chairman and CEO summary 3 Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 78
Combined Code 69,88 Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 80
Commitments 46,136 Notes to the financial statements 94
Committee reports 67 Operating profit 105
Consolidated balance sheet 91 Optimising the performance of marketed products 13
Consolidated cash flow statement 92 Other intangible assets 113
Consolidated income statement 90 Other investments 115
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 93 Other non-current assets 115
Consumer Healthcare 5,13,17,26,28,35,39 Other non-current liabilities 124
Contact details 178 Other operating income 104
Contingent liabilities 124 Other provisions 123
Corporate Executive Team 61 Outlook and risk factors 50
Corporate governance 59 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 117
Corporate responsibility and community investment 24 Pharmaceutical turnover 36
Critical accounting policies 43 Post balance sheet events 136
Delivering the product pipeline for patients 14 Presentation of the financial statements 94
Dialogue with shareholders 64 Principal Group companies 149
Directors and Senior Management remuneration 78 Products and competition 32
Directors’ interests 81 Property, plant and equipment 111
Directors’ interests in contracts 86 Quarterly trend 166
Directors’ statements of responsibility 88 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 130
Dividends 110,175 Reconciliation of profit after tax to operating cash flows 130
Earnings per share 110 Regulatory environment 27
Employee costs 106 Related party transactions 130
Employee share schemes 144 Remuneration policy 72
Exchange rates 99 Remuneration Report 71
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 77 Report of the Directors 9
Finance costs 107 Responsibility for environment, health and safety 29
Finance income 106 Restructuring costs 104
Financial instruments and related disclosures 137 Risk factors 50
Financial position and resources 44 Segment information 100
Financial record 166 Share capital and control 64
Financial review 2006 54 Share capital and share premium account 127
Financial review 2007 36 Share options 81
Financial statements 87 Shareholder information 175
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc 159 Taxation 108
Financial trends and ratios 12 Taxation information for shareholders 179
Five questions, five answers 4 Total equity 45
Five year record 172 Trade and other payables 116
Foreign exchange management 49 Trade and other receivables 116
Global manufacturing and supply 26 Trademarks 29
Glossary of terms 180 Treasury policies 48
Goodwill 112 US law and regulation 69
Governance and policy 62 World economy 31
Improving access to medicines 23 World market 31
Incentive plans 83www.gsk.com
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792
Printed in the UK by The Midas Press. The paper used in
the production of this document is made from pulps
harvested from sustainable forests, also using sawmill
residues and forest thinnings. It is elemental chlorine-free.