Do more, feel better, live longer
Annual Report 2012b GSK Annual Report 2012
Our mission
At GSK our mission is to
Notice regarding limitations on
Director Liability under English Law
Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits
improve the quality of the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and
omissions from the Report of the Directors contained
on pages 1-136 and 239-244 which includes a business
review on pages 1 to 86. Under English law the Directors
human life by enabling would be liable to the company, but not to any third
party, if the Report of the Directors contains errors as
a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or
dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not
people to do more, feel otherwise be liable.
Report of the Directors
Pages 1-136 and 239-244 inclusive comprise the Report
of the Directors that has been drawn up and presented
better and live longer. in accordance with and in reliance upon English company
law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection
with that report shall be subject to the limitations and
restrictions provided by such law.
Website
GlaxoSmithKline’s website www.gsk.com gives
additional information on the Group. Notwithstanding
the references we make in this Annual Report to
GlaxoSmithKline’s website, none of the information
made available on the website constitutes part of this
Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated
by reference herein.
Cautionary statement regarding
forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including
this document and written information released, or
Front cover image oral statements made, to the public in the future by or
on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking
A child being seen by a doctor working for Brazil’s statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group’s
unified health system, which provides 95% of current expectations or forecasts of future events. An
investor can identify these statements by the fact that
scheduled vaccinations in the country. We have a they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’,
long-standing relationship with the government-
‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words
funded science institution, Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, and terms of similar meaning in connection with any
discussion of future operating or financial performance.
to manufacture vaccines for public health priorities In particular, these include statements relating to future
in Brazil. This began with our first alliance in the actions, prospective products or product approvals,
future performance or results of current and anticipated
1980s on polio vaccines and continues through to products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of
contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial recent technology transfers for products like our
results. The Group undertakes no obligation to update
pneumococcal vaccine. Brazil is one of a number of any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information, future events or otherwise.
large emerging market countries in which we are
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks
present and more than a quarter of the Group’s total
and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that
revenues are now generated in these countries. a number of important factors, including those in this
document, could cause actual results to differ materially
from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those
discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages 78-86 of this
Annual Report.
A number of adjusted measures are used to report the
performance of our business. These measures are defined
on page 56.
Brand names
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report
are trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to
GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with the
exception of Boniva/Bonviva, a trademark of Roche,
NicoDerm, a trademark of Johnson & Johnson, Merrell,
Novartis, Sanofi or GlaxoSmithKline, Potiga, a trademark
of Valeant, Prolia and Xgeva, trademarks of Amgen,
Vesicare, a trademark of Astellas Pharmaceuticals in
many countries and of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals in
certain countries, Volibris, a trademark of Gilead, Xyzal,
a trademark of UCB or GlaxoSmithKline and Zyrtec, a
trademark of UCB or GlaxoSmithKline all of which are
used in certain countries under licence by the Group.
nozbazS
xelAGSK Annual Report 2012 1
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Overview
GSK in 2012 Strategic review
Chairman’s statement 2
CEO’s review 3
Strategic review 5
How we performed 6
What we do, Where we do it 8
Our market 12
How we deliver 16
Responsible business 49
As a global healthcare company, our Financial review & risk
Financial review 55
commercial success depends on us Financial position and resources 66
creating innovative new medicines, Financial review 2011 72
Risk factors 78
vaccines and healthcare products and
making these accessible to as many
people who need them as possible.
2012 was characterised by a
challenging global economic climate.
Despite this, we have continued to Governance & remuneration
Our Board 88
make good progress in our strategy Our Corporate Executive Team 92
Chairman’s letter 94
to grow our business in a sustainable
Board report to shareholders 95
Committee reports 103
way, deliver new medicines and
Remuneration Committee
Chairman’s letter 109
healthcare products that are valued
Total remuneration for 2012 110
by those who use them, and simplify Pay for performance for 2012 111
Remuneration policy for 2013 113
our operations. Directors’ emoluments
and total remuneration 127
Directors and Senior Management 136
All of this has allowed us to deliver
significant returns to our shareholders. Financial statements
Directors’ statement of
responsibilities 138
Read more at www.gsk.com Independent Auditors’ report 139
Financial statements 140
Notes to the financial statements 144
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
under UK GAAP 218
Highlights
£26.4bn £8.3bn £7.4bn
Investor information
Total Group turnover Core* operating Total operating
profit profit Product development pipeline 225
Products, competition and
intellectual property 229
£6.3bn 112.7 92.9 Quarterly trend 232
p p
Five year record 236
Returned to Core* earnings Total earnings Share capital and share price 239
shareholders per share per share Dividends 240
Annual General Meeting 2013 241
US law and regulation 242
6 1st
Tax information for shareholders 243
Analysis of shareholdings 244
Shareholder services and contacts 245
Key medicines submitted in Access to
for regulatory approval Medicines Index Glossary of terms and index 247
* The calculation of core results is described on page 56 and a reconciliation is provided on page 62.2 GSK Annual Report 2012
Chairman’s statement
Despite a challenging environment, I believe 2012 marked another
year of progress for GSK in the delivery of our strategy and in
generating more sustainable returns to shareholders
Over the past five years, under Sir We continue to make changes to
Andrew’s leadership, the Group has been the Board as we plan for the future
fundamentally changing to improve and implement proactive succession
growth prospects, reduce risk and deliver planning. I would like to thank both Sir
enhanced returns to shareholders. Crispin Davis, who is standing down at
this year’s AGM, and Larry Culp, who
The benefits of this strategy were
retired from the Board in September, for
evident during the year, with strong
their outstanding contributions over
performances in our emerging markets,
recent years.
and other growth businesses offsetting
much of the impact of the significantly In April, we appointed Lynn Elsenhans
worsening outlook in Europe. At the same and Jing Ulrich as Non-Executive
time, GSK’s R&D organisation delivered Directors. Respectively Lynn and Jing
unparalleled output with six key new have brought experience running global
products submitted for approval and there companies and deep knowledge of
is growing evidence that we can replenish emerging markets to Board discussions.
the late stage pipeline on a sustainable Additionally in January, we announced
basis. This is clearly of critical importance that Hans Wijers, currently chairman
to the longer-term prospects of the Group. designate of Heineken and previously
CEO of Akzo Nobel, will join GSK as
Ultimately the aim of our strategy is to
a Non-Executive Director from this
deliver sustainable earnings per share
year’s AGM.
growth (EPS) and improved returns to
shareholders. GSK delivered flat core EPS I would also like to thank Sir Robert
of 112.7p but returned £6.3 billion to Wilson for agreeing to remain on the
shareholders via dividends and buybacks Board for an additional year to provide
in 2012. This brings to nearly £25 billion continuity and advice as new Board
the amount returned to shareholders members settle into their roles.
since Sir Andrew joined the Board at the
We have now met our original aspiration
start of 2008.
to have more than 25% female
Operating in a responsible and ethical representation on the Board by 2013, and
way is essential for the commercial we remain committed to continuing to
success of GSK. As Chairman of the improve geographic and gender diversity
Corporate Responsibility Committee, I at Board level.
was pleased to see the continued progress
In summary, while our operating
during the year in our efforts to improve
environment remains challenging,
global access to our medicines, with
it is also not without substantial
further agreements reached to supply our
opportunity for companies that deliver
vaccines to the world’s poorest countries
innovation and act with responsibility.
at low prices and to encourage research
The Board has every confidence in the
into neglected diseases. The Group also
strength and resilience of Sir Andrew
took industry-leading steps to improve
and his senior management team, and
transparency of its clinical trial research.
believes the Group is taking all the
Oversight and management of risk necessary steps to build a stronger GSK
remains a key focus for the Board. that can generate sustainable value for
In July 2012, the Group successfully shareholders and society.
resolved a series of long-standing legal
matters with the US Government. These
primarily related to historical sales and
marketing practices.
The Board recognises that these matters
do not reflect the company that GSK is
today. Fundamental changes have been
made to compliance, marketing and Sir Christopher Gent
selling procedures in recent years and Chairman
significant progress made to embed a
culture in the company that puts
patients first and demands integrity
in all behaviours and activities.GSK Annual Report 2012 3
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
& risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
CEO’s review
We have diversified our sources of growth, our R&D productivity
has significantly improved and our processes are simpler and more
efficient. We are confident that our strategy is delivering
Five years ago we set out a strategy to The clear adverse impact to our
re-shape GSK to increase growth, reduce performance in 2012 was weaker than
risk and improve our long-term financial expected sales from our European
performance. We have made good business, down 7%. Here, government
progress and 2012 provided further austerity measures adversely impacted
evidence of this. growth by approximately 6 percentage
points during the year.
However, there is no doubt that we
are operating in a very challenging R&D productivity provides
environment and in 2012 this was
platform for growth
particularly evident in Europe. Despite
this, we were able to maintain core
In R&D, the Group made significant
earnings per share (CER), generate net
progress in 2012. We now have six key
cash inflows from operating activities of
new products under regulatory review
£7 billion (before legal settlements) and
and expect Phase III data on 14 assets
return over £6.3 billion to shareholders.
in 2013 and 2014. In total, over the next
We also made outstanding progress in three years, GSK has the potential to
research and development during the launch around 15 new medicines and
year to advance potential new medicines vaccines globally.
across multiple disease areas including
We are also confident that we can
respiratory, oncology, diabetes and HIV.
sustain this level of productivity and
Investment in growth markets that we can deliver our long-term goal
of improving returns on R&D investment
Although reported sales for the year to around 14%.
were down 1% (CER), sales were flat
Simplifying and changing
adjusting for the disposal of our non-
core Consumer Healthcare brands. This our business
reflects continued strong performance
from our ‘growth’ businesses, helping We continue to make changes to simplify
to offset pressure in Western markets. our operating model. Our Operational
Excellence programme has now delivered
In emerging markets, the benefits of
annual savings of £2.5 billion and
investments made to increase our
remains on track to hit the target we set
exposure in Pharmaceuticals and
of £2.8 billion of annual savings by 2014.
Vaccines, as well as Consumer Healthcare,
In February 2013 we announced a new
were very evident. Total sales in emerging
major change programme, which we
markets now account for 26% of our
expect to produce incremental annual
business and grew 10% during the
cost savings of at least £1 billion by 2016.
year. At a divisional level, Consumer
Healthcare sales were flat, but grew 5%, This programme will include a series of
excluding divested OTC products. technological advances and opportunities
to eliminate complexity, which we
In Pharmaceutical and Vaccines, Japan’s
believe can transform our long-term cost
sales fell 6%, reflecting the impact of the
competitiveness in both manufacturing
Cervarix vaccine sales for the catch up
and R&D. The programme will help us
programme in the prior year. Excluding
simplify our supply chain processes,
Cervarix, sales grew 5%. Sales in the USA
shorten cycle times, lower inventory
were down 2%; this was an improvement levels and reduce our carbon footprint.
over 2011 when sales declined 5%. We
have been re-shaping our US business to
reflect changing market dynamics and to
prepare for the launch of multiple new
products. We continue to view the USA
and Japan very positively, as markets
that reward and are willing to pay for
healthcare innovation.4 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review
In addition, given the sustained shift Outside Consumer Healthcare, we As the Chairman notes in his review,
we have witnessed in the European continue to strengthen our core business in July we also settled multiple
reimbursement and pricing environment, through acquisitions and equity investigations with the US Government
we plan to initiate further restructuring of investments. In 2012 we completed and states, primarily relating to historical
our European pharmaceuticals business three significant transactions with sales and marketing practices. These
to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and Human Genome Sciences, Shionogi and matters originated in a different era
reallocate resources to support identified Theravance to increase our share of the for the company, but we continue to
growth opportunities in these markets. economics on key future growth assets. take action at all levels to improve our
We are also evaluating further strategic At the same time, we delivered targeted procedures for compliance, marketing
options to ensure we are able to maximise divestments at the periphery of the and selling and embed a values-based
the value of our current and future Group to realise value for shareholders, culture in GSK.
portfolio in Europe. divesting Vesicare, multiple non-core OTC
brands and Australian pharmaceutical Outlook
This additional restructuring supports
‘tail’ products.
our strategy to change the shape of our GSK’s globally diversified sales base and
business and deliver sustainable long- Operating with responsibility improved R&D output provide a clear
term growth. In the short term, it will platform for growth, with 2013 marking
also help to offset some of the pressure We remain committed to operating the start of what should be a series of
we are seeing on our margin structure responsibly and during the year we made growth years for the Group.
resulting from changes in our business further advances on our agenda to ensure
mix. We remain confident that as our our behaviour and actions meet or exceed Specifically we expect to deliver core EPS
pipeline begins to contribute from the the expectations of society. growth of 3-4% CER and sales growth
end of 2013, we can drive improvement of around 1% CER during the year.*
in the core operating margin over the For example, we have taken several steps We also expect to deliver further strong
medium term. to increase transparency of our clinical cash generation in 2013 and remain
research. We already publish all our trial committed to using free cash flow to
Strengthening our core results whether positive or negative. support increasing dividends, share
business We have now committed to go further repurchases or, where returns are more
and enable independent researchers to attractive, bolt-on acquisitions.
Our Consumer Healthcare business access the very detailed data that lies In closing, I would like to thank all
continues to make excellent progress as behind these results. By being more our employees, partners and suppliers
we increase focus around a core portfolio open, we hope to help further scientific for their continued commitment and
of healthcare brands and emerging understanding and research. support. We are more confident than
markets, where we are seeing very We also continue to expand access to ever that GSK is well placed to succeed
positive consumption trends and benefit our medicines to people living in the in emerging and pro-innovation markets
from sales and distribution synergies poorest countries in the world. In 2012 and that our R&D model is working.
with pharmaceuticals. GSK was again ranked number 1 in the This is creating clear, long-term capacity
Investments to maximise returns in these Access to Medicines (ATM) Index which for GSK to deliver continued innovation
markets continue. Last year, we opened assesses healthcare companies’ activities and benefit to patients, and sustained
a new innovation centre in China and in this field. In addition, we expanded performance and returns to shareholders.
have now increased our shareholding our efforts to tackle neglected tropical
in our Indian subsidiary. In line with diseases and supply low-price vaccines to
this strategic focus, we have decided to the GAVI alliance for use in the world’s
initiate a review evaluating all strategic poorest countries. We also received
options for the Lucozade and Ribena further data on our candidate malaria
drinks brands, which are primarily vaccine. While additional analysis is
marketed in established Western markets. needed, this vaccine continues to have Sir Andrew Witty
These brands are iconic and the review the potential to save the lives of hundreds Chief Executive Officer
will look at the best ways to ensure their of thousands of children in Africa.
continued growth.
* All forward looking statements are based on 2012 restated numbers adjusted for IAS 19R (EPS of 111.4p), at CER and barring unforeseen circumstances.
See ‘Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements’ on the inside front cover and page 56 for an explanation of CER.GSK Annual Report 2012 5
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Strategic
How we performed 6
What we do, Where we do it 8
How we create value 10
Our market 12
review
How we deliver 16
Grow a diversified global business 18
Deliver more products of value 30
Simplify the operating model 42
Responsible business 49
Capital investment
Ulverston in the Lake District in the north of England
will be the location for our new biopharmaceutical
manufacturing centre – the first new factory GSK
has built in the UK for almost 40 years. This forms
part of a series of UK investments of more than
£500 million, made possible by the introduction
of new patent box rules in the UK.
sppihW
moT6 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review
How we performed
We measure our performance against a number of key indicators,
and use core results for our planning and reporting purposes
Group turnover Free cash flowb,c
£26.4bn £2.0bn
(1) (3) (1) Reported growth CER % (15) (8) (51) Reported growth £ %
– (4) (3) Reported growth £ % 19 (14) (17) Growth excluding legal settlements £ %
28.4 27.4 26.4 H Reo pw o rw tee d p se ar lf eo sr m we ed re down 1% but were flat 4.5 4.1 H Fro ew e cw ase h p fle orf wo r wm ae sd £2.0 billion. Excluding
adjusting for the disposal of our non-core OTC legal settlements, adjusted free cash flow was
Consumer Healthcare brands. Overall, strong £4.7 billion.
performances in EMAP and other growth
businesses largely offset declines in USA Why it’s important
and Europe. This measure shows the cash we generate that
is available to return to shareholders or reinvest
2.0
Why it’s important in the business, as well as our effectiveness in
A key objective of our strategy is to deliver converting our earnings to cash through effective
sustainable, broadly-sourced sales growth. working capital control and investment discipline.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012
Core operating profit and margina Total operating profit and margin
£8.3bn £7.4bn
(4) (6) (3) Reported growth CER % (59) >100 (3) Reported growth CER %
– (7) (5) Reported growth £ % (55) >100 (5) Reported growth £ %
How we performed How we performed
33.4% 28.5%
32.1% Core operating profit was £8.3 billion. Core 28.0% Total operating profit was £7.4 billion. Total
9.5 8.8 31.5% operating margin declined 0.6 percentage 7.8 7.4 operating margin declined 0.5 percentage
8.3 points to 31.5%, of which 0.3 percentage points to 28.0%, of which 0.3 percentage
points was due to the expected impact of points was due to the expected impact of
the acquisition of Human Genome Sciences. the acquisition of Human Genome Sciences.
13.3%
Why it’s important 3.8
Our objective remains to improve operating
leverage. The margin indicates how costs are
being managed as sales grow.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012
Core earnings per sharea Total earnings per share
112.7 92.9
p p
(3) (7) – Reported growth CER % (75) >100 (9) Reported growth CER %
– (8) (2) Reported growth £ % (71) >100 (11) Reported growth £ %
How we performed How we performed
125.5 Effective cost control and delivery of financial 104.6 Non-core items included a tax charge of
115.5 112.7 efficiencies enabled the Group to deliver core 92.9 £420 million (8.6p) arising from the
EPS of 112.7p centralisation of Pharmaceutical intellectual
property and product inventory ownership
Why it’s important in the UK. Transactions completed in 2012
EPS shows the portion of our profit allocated resulted in a number of significant non-cash
to each share. It is a key indicator of our accounting entries. However, these largely
performance and the returns we are generating. offset each other.
32.1
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012GSK Annual Report 2012 7
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
& risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Cash returned to shareholders
£6.3bn
7 75 13 Reported growth £ %
6.3
5.6 How we performed
During 2012, GSK returned £6.3 billion to
shareholders via dividends and share
buy- backs.
3.2 3.8 Why it’s important
3.4 We continue to focus on delivering dividend
growth and returning free cash flow to
shareholders through share buy-backs where
this offers a more attractive return than
alternative investments.
2010 2011 2012
dnediviD
-yuB skcab
dnediviD dnediviD
2.5
2.2
-yuB skcab
Turnover in our major growth areasb New Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product performanceb
£14.3bn £1.4bn
51 53 54 % share of total turnover 36 47 34 Reported growth CER %
14.6 How we performed 2.5 How we performed 14.4 14.3 We saw continued growth in emerging markets, Total sales of new products were £1.4 billion,
Japan (excluding vaccines) and Consumer grew 34% in the year and represented 7%
Healthcare (excluding disposals). Performance of Pharmaceutical and Vaccines turnover.
in Vaccines was impacted by reduced sales of 1.7 2012 was impacted by the roll-off of products
Cervarix following the HPV vaccination more than five years old.
catch-up programme in Japan in 2011. 1.4
Why it’s important
Why it’s important This measure shows the delivery of sales
This measure focuses on our major growth from products launched in the prior five
areas: Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, EMAP, years and creates incentives for improved
Japan and dermatology. R&D performance.
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012
Relative total shareholder returnb,d
160
140
120
100
80
60
31/12/07 31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/11 31/12/12
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index(cid:87)
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
a We use a number of adjusted measures to report the performance b T he remuneration of our executives is linked to the marked key
of our business. These include core results, which are used by indicators. Further information on our executive pay policy can be
management for planning and reporting purposes and may not found in our Remuneration report on page 109.
be directly comparable with similarly described measures used by
c T he calculation of free cash flow is described on page 56 and a
other companies. Core results exclude a number of items from total
reconciliation is provided on page 69. The calculation of CER is
results. A full definition of core results can be found on page 56 and
described on page 56. a reconciliation between core results and total results is provided
on page 62. d T he constituents of the Pharma Peers Return Index are listed on
page 115.8 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review
What we do
We are a science-led global healthcare company that researches
and develops a broad range of innovative products
Our business
We have three primary areas of business Pharmaceuticals, £26.4bn
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare. Our objective is to deliver
Group turnover
sustainable growth across this portfolio.
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
£18.0bn 68% £3.3bn 13% £5.1bn 19%
Turnover of Group Turnover of Group Turnover of Group
Our Pharmaceuticals business develops Our Vaccines business is one of the largest We develop and market a range of
and makes available medicines to treat a in the world, producing paediatric and consumer health products based on
broad range of serious and chronic diseases. adult vaccines against a range of infectious scientific innovation. We have brands
Our portfolio is made up of established diseases. In 2012, we distributed nearly 900 in four main categories: Total wellness,
brands and newer innovative patent- million doses to 170 countries, of which over Oral care, Nutrition and Skin health.
protected medicines. 80% were supplied to developing countries.
Sales by therapy area Sales by vaccine Sales by category
£m £m £m
Respiratory 7,291 Boostrix 238 Total wellness 2,008
Anti-virals 753 Cervarix 270 Oral care 1,797
Central nervous system 1,670 Fluarix, FluLaval 200 Nutrition 1,050
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,431 Hepatitis 646 Skin health 255
Metabolic 171 Infanrix, Pediarix 775
Anti-bacterials 1,247 Rotarix 360
Oncology and emesis 798 Synflorix 385
Dermatology 850 Other 451
Rare diseases 495
Immuno-inflammation 70
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,374
Other 846
Read more on page 57 Read more on page 58 Read more on page 59
R&D
Our business is sustained through investment in R&D. In 2012 £3.5bn c.30
we spent £3.5 billion before non-core items*, £4.0 billion in total,
in our search to develop new medicines, vaccines and innovative Core R&D Assets in late
consumer products. expenditure stage pipeline
in 2012
During the year we saw significant delivery from our late stage
pipeline, with six key medicines filed with regulators. Core R&D expenditure allocation in 2012
We have dedicated research programmes for diseases that affect £m %
the developing world. We are one of the few healthcare companies Pharmaceuticals 2,821 81
researching both new vaccines and new medicines for all three of Vaccines 498 14
the World Health Organization’s priority diseases: HIV/AIDS, malaria Consumer Healthcare 155 5
and tuberculosis.
Read more on page 32
* The calculation of core results and non-core items is set out on page 56.GSK Annual Report 2012 9
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Where we do it
Our geographic presence covers more than 100 countries
Our global reach
The shape of our business is shifting to capitalise on markets 99,488
with high-growth potential including those in Asia Pacific, Latin
America and Japan. Territories outside the USA and Europe now Employees
account for 40% of our total sales.
Employees by region
We have a significant global manufacturing and R&D presence
4 5 1
with a network of 87 manufacturing sites and large R&D centres
in the UK, USA, Spain, Belgium and China. 2
3
No.
1 USA 17,201
2 Europe 38,788
3 EMAP 36,738
4 Japan 3,515
5 Other 3,246
Turnover by region
5 1
4
2
3
£m
1 USA 8,446
2 Europe 7,320
3 EMAP 6,780
4 Japan 2,225
5 Other 1,660
How we’re structured
Our commercial businesses are structured around regional units Turnover by segment
or areas of focus. £bn
For Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, we operate in geographical US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 7.0
segments that combine these two businesses. Our Consumer Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 5.0
Healthcare business functions as a global unit, as does ViiV Healthcare, EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 4.7
the specialist HIV company we founded with Pfizer in 2009. Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 2.0
ViiV Healthcare 1.4
Other trading turnover includes Canada, Puerto Rico, Australasia,
Other trading 1.2
central vaccine tender sales and contract manufacturing sales.
Consumer Healthcare 5.1
Read more on page 15110 GSK Annual Report 2012
Overview
How we create value
By delivering innovation and expanding access to our
products we create value for society and our shareholders
The context
We see both opportunities and challenges in Meanwhile, the world’s population continues to
our operating environment. Scientific research grow as do pressures on healthcare costs, with
is continuously uncovering new understandings a notable intensification in developed markets
about disease processes and technologies. following the recent macro-economic downturn.
Innovation In Western markets, we have developed How we do it
new reimbursement approaches for our
At the core of our business model is the medicines where we agree risk-sharing We can only achieve our objectives
use of knowledge and development of arrangements with payers. by utilising our assets, executing our
intellectual property. We create value by strategic priorities and operating our
We have adopted more flexible pricing
researching, manufacturing and making business responsibly.
approaches to reflect countries’ wealth
available products that improve people’s
and ability to pay. This has resulted in In the past five years, we have made
health and well-being.
significant increases in demand for our significant progress in the delivery
A healthier society enables people to live products in emerging economies. of our strategic priorities.
life to its fullest, allowing them and their
To increase access to our products in We have developed a balanced business
communities to prosper. A sustained
the world’s least-developed countries, with geographic diversity and new
flow of innovative products enables
we have held the price of our patented platforms for growth, in particular
our business to grow profits and deliver
medicines in this region at no more than through advancement of our late-stage
improved returns to our shareholders.
25% of our developed world prices and pipeline and changes to our R&D model.
We aim to develop new products that we re-invest a fifth of the profits we make At the same time, we have also simplified
offer significant improvements over from sales in these territories back into our business to reduce costs and ensure
existing treatment options and therefore local healthcare infrastructure projects. we retain long-term competitiveness.
provide value to patients and those
who pay for them such as governments, Sustainable Our commitment to be a responsible,
values-based business underlies
insurers or other third parties.
Developing a new medicine takes many everything we do. Our values are applied
In 2012, we invested £3.5 billion in years and substantial investment. We across the Group and we are focused
core research and development of new are able to bring the scale, significant on integrating them into our culture,
medicines, vaccines and consumer resources and expertise required. On decision-making and how we work. These
products, and we are currently evaluating average each successful medicine will values are to operate with transparency,
around 50 investigational medicines require significant investment over a demonstrate respect for people, act with
for diseases such as cancer, diabetes, 10-12 year period. integrity and be patient-focused. We ask
heart disease and respiratory illnesses. every one of our employees to embody
Over the next three years, we have Sustainability in our business these values.
the potential to bring around 15 new performance is critically important if we
medicines to patients. are to deliver continued innovation and For more on our approach to
access to our products. We must produce responsible business see page 49 to 54.
For more on our R&D and the profitable performance to ensure we
discovery process see pages 30 to 41. remain competitive and have the funds
to invest in our people and assets. A key
Access
element of this is an environment that
appropriately rewards innovation across
We manufacture and distribute more
both patent-protected and branded
than 4 billion packs of products to over
products.
150 countries around the world. With
this extensive global presence, we are For more on our approach to
striving to make our products as widely intellectual property see page 15.
accessible as possible.GSK Annual Report 2012 11
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
How we create value
Shareholder returns
Our assets
Intellectual property, people
and infrastructure +
Deliver innovative
Our strategic priorities products and expand Benefits to patients,
consumers and society
Grow, Deliver, Simplify access to them
+
Our values
Transparency, Respect,
Integrity, Patient focused Re-investment
Wider contributions The company also contributes to the Progress highlights
countries in which we operate through
While our primary contribution is to the tax system. In 2012, the charge for bn
£25 develop new products that improve taxation on our profits amounted to
people’s health, we also create value £1.95 billion. Direct contributions to
as a global company by making direct support the health and well-being of Amount returned to shareholders
and indirect economic and social local communities relevant to GSK are via dividends and buybacks
contributions in the countries in which also made via our global community over past five years
we operate. programmes which amount to over
£200 million a year. 23
We have a global and diverse employee
base consisting of close to 100,000 Finally, we believe we can create value
employees, and we contract goods and by acting as a catalyst or partner for Number of new product
approvals in the USA and
services on a significant scale. Last year, other organisations. We value the new
Europe in past five years
our manufacturing supply chain spent and different perspectives that other
around £9 billion with 6,000 suppliers groups can bring to our thinking. We
1st
across 73 countries. are open to working with research
charities, academia, companies and
non-governmental organisations. in Access to Medicines Index12 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review
Our market
While our environment remains challenging we are optimistic
about the long-term future of the healthcare market
General overview In the USA, markets stagnated at the Healthcare market
end of the year, ahead of fears about the
There remains a significant need for “fiscal cliff” created by federal budget While the healthcare industry remains
medicines and healthcare treatments legislation. Though the crisis was averted, one of the world’s largest industries,
around the world, and we are optimistic significant uncertainty remains over the it has felt the effects of government
about our ability to grow our business strength of the economy and over the austerity measures such as mandated
in the long-term by researching, likely impact of legislation intended to price reductions in Europe, Japan and a
manufacturing and selling innovative stimulate economic growth. number of emerging markets. As a result
healthcare treatments, especially given of these developments, companies faced
In Japan, the economy contracted as
the work we have done to re-shape and significant pressure in growing sales,
demand for Japanese exports was impacted
geographically rebalance our business. although new products and growth
by the global economic slowdown,
elsewhere in the emerging markets
Nevertheless, many factors can affect the particularly in Europe. In the Eurozone,
helped to partly offset the challenges.
performance and success of our sector economies continued to contract as the
and our business. The exact impact of recession deepened, and even revised Sales in the world pharmaceutical
these is difficult to forecast. growth forecasts proved optimistic. For market were worth £516 billion at
the first time since the single currency was constant exchange rates (CER) in the
Global economic overview launched, the region failed to grow in any 12 months to the end of September
quarter during the calendar year. Growth 2012, increasing from £503 billion in
The difficult market conditions stemming in emerging markets was weaker than the previous year. The share of global
from the international financial crisis expected. China continued to grow, but sales grew to 42.8% in North America,
continued to impact the world’s at 7.8% was the lowest level for more than which remained the top pharmaceutical
economies during 2012, while sales a decade, according to the IMF. market, and declined in Europe (to
growth in world pharmaceutical markets 23.3%), while emerging markets also
Based on IMF assessments, the outlook
showed significant regional variation. increased their share to 21.7%.**
for global economic growth in 2013 is
Economies across the globe remained 3.5%. There is no immediate sign of During the year many of the largest
weak in 2012 as governments continued an end to the weak global economy pharmaceutical companies encountered
to struggle with the long-term effects of or to improvements in budget deficits generic competition for a significant
the 2008 financial crisis. Overall growth among many of the world’s richest number of products. It is estimated that
for 2012 slowed to 3.2%, according to the nations. Other factors such as political $35 billion in sales were lost as products
International Monetary Fund (IMF).* turbulence within the European Union lost patent protection and experienced
and instability in the Middle East, are competition from generics.
likely to affect the international
business environment.
Figure 1
World pharmaceutical market
Value % of % compound growth
by geographic region £bn total Sep 2007–Sep 2012
North America 221 42.8 3.4
Europe 120 23.3 2.6
EMAP 112 21.7 14.7
Japan 63 12.2 3.8
Total 516 100.0 5.1
Sales % of
World market – top therapeutic classes £bn total
Central nervous system 78 15.1
Antineoplastic/Immunomodulatory 76 14.7
Cardiovascular 69 13.4
Alimentary tract and metabolic 63 12.2
Anti-infectives (bacterial, viral and fungal
excluding vaccines) 52 10.1
Respiratory 36 7.0
** Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates based on the most recent data from independent external
sources including IMS Health. Values are based at CER (constant exchange rate).
* IMF data taken from World Economic Outlook Update, January 2013.GSK Annual Report 2012 13
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
& remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Population growth Demand for medicines, vaccines and Price controls
consumer healthcare products is expected
According to the United Nation’s 2010
revision to its population projections, to continue to grow significantly faster In many countries, the prices of
world population will peak at 10.1 than in more mature markets over the pharmaceutical products are controlled
billion in 2100 compared with 7 billion next few years. by law. Governments may also influence
in 2011. While some countries are prices through their control of national
Lifestyle changes
seeing declining birth rates – particularly healthcare organisations, which can
those in Europe and Japan – many As populations increase, people are also bear a large part of the cost of supplying
other regions have seen a sharp rise in living longer, partly aided by the success medicines to consumers.
populations, particularly in the Middle of medical interventions treating and In Europe, governments are responding
East and southern Asia. preventing diseases that previously to increasing austerity pressures.
caused significant mortality in infants
These countries with rising populations (see figure 2). With this increasing age, Healthcare reforms in countries such
are the same economies that are comes increasing infirmity and illness. as France, Spain and Germany have
experiencing improved economic restricted pricing and mandated
outlooks. The IMF forecasts that Other lifestyle changes are affecting generic substitutions.
emerging markets will grow 5.5% in health risks as well. As people become In Japan the government implemented
2013 and 5.9% in 2014 compared with less physically active and alter their its mandatory bi-annual price review
figures of 1.4% and 2.2%, respectively, consumption of food, alcohol and of pharmaceutical products in 2012.
for developed markets. tobacco, there is a growing incidence of
chronic, non-communicable conditions In the USA there are no government price
Governments in developing countries such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease. controls over private sector purchases,
are under pressure to improve healthcare but federal law requires pharmaceutical infrastructure and provide basic universal In emerging markets, where increasingly manufacturers to pay rebates on
coverage and many have made significant people are moving away from a certain medicines to be eligible for
commitments to do this. However, subsistence/agricultural lifestyle to find reimbursement under several state and
where strong healthcare systems are paid work in the cities, there is a growth federal healthcare programmes. Those
missing, people in developing countries in disposable incomes and expansion of rebates increased and were expanded
buy their medicines directly. As a result, the middle-class sections of populations. in 2011 as an affect of the Affordable
households in emerging markets spend This is significant as a large proportion Care Act (ACA). In 2012 and continuing
a significantly higher proportion of their of healthcare spending in these countries into 2013, the government is finalising
personal income on medicines than is comes directly from the patient. additional details for implementing the
spent by richer countries. Pharma Futures ACA. Expansion of the government’s
report ‘Perspectives from Emerging insurance programme for low-income
Markets’ estimates this can be as high Americans, new health insurance
as 40% in China and India, and 25% in marketplaces, and a financial penalty
Brazil, for example. for certain Americans who choose not
to purchase health insurance are
scheduled for 2014.
Figure 2
Estimated change to world population (millions)
200
0–14 years 2012 pop: 1,751m
15–64 years 2012 pop: 4,413m
65+ years 2012 pop: 536m
100
The world population is projected to increase
substantially from the current levels, with the
biggest proportional growth in the older age
0
group (2.9%). Source: IMS
2013 2014 2015 201614 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review
Our market continued
Additionally, cross-border trade, the Figure 3 The European Commission adopted
acceleration of generics to market, US FDA approvals of new molecular entities proposals in July for a new regulation
comparative effectiveness research, aimed at boosting clinical research in
40
value-based care delivery, pharmaceutical Europe by simplifying the rules for
pricing and other issues of importance to 39 conducting trials. The proposals are
our industry are part of the continuing currently under review and industry will
30
healthcare debate in the USA. be seeking to ensure that new legislation
20 24 26
21 – expected to come into effect in 2016 –
Regulatory pressures will create a favourable environment for
R&D in Europe.
The pharmaceuticals and vaccines
0
industry is highly regulated. Regional The new Falsified Medicines Directive
and country-specific laws and regulations 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 became effective on 2 January 2013 and
are important in determining whether Nature Reviews Drug Discovery 12, 87-90 (February 2013) introduced measures to prevent the entry
a product can be successfully developed | doi:10.1038/nrd3946 of falsified medicines into the legal supply
and approved. USA chain. These include requirements for the
importation of active substances into the
The number and impact of regulatory In the USA, the fifth reauthorisation of the EU from third countries (non-EU member
agency requirements is increasing, Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) states), which may present challenges to
particularly across aspects of product was passed in 2012 with the signing into pharmaceutical manufacturers.
quality and safety. The evaluation of law of the Food and Drug Administration
benefit and risk continues to be of Safety and Innovation Act (FDASIA). The Emerging markets
paramount consideration in the approval law establishes new user-fee statutes for As the demand for patient access to
of a new medicine, and regulatory generic medicines and follow-on versions new drugs in emerging markets grows,
authorities are increasingly focusing of biopharmaceuticals, commonly referred so does the importance of conducting
on the safety of medicines in the to as biosimilars. It also equips the FDA clinical trials in these countries to
post-approval phase. with tools intended to accelerate the provide data on a medicine’s profile
Regulatory agencies’ criteria for development and review of innovative in local populations.
new medicines, and gives the agency new
evaluating benefit and risk can also A growing number of emerging markets
authority concerning drug shortages.
vary widely, making it challenging for are requiring that studies be conducted
pharmaceutical companies to meet the The FDA approved 39 new molecular in-country to assess any variation in
requirements for each country. entities in 2012 with the majority of ethno-sensitivity to new medicines. This
these representing the first market is in addition to evidence that a highly
approval. (See figure 3). regulated authority such as the EMA or
FDA has approved a new medicine before
Europe
they initiate their own review.
In the European Union (EU), 2012 saw
The regulatory requirements in these
significant new legislation and regulatory
markets can be challenging, both in
requirements. Implementation of the
terms of the volume and pace of change,
revised EU pharmacovigilance legislation,
and the consistency of guidance.
which brings in new measures aimed at
Nevertheless, we continue to take part
strengthening the safety monitoring of
in regional and national regulatory
medicines, started in July 2012.
initiatives that provide opportunities
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) for scientific and regulatory dialogue
approved 31 novel medicines in 2012. between industry, agencies and other
Of these approvals, nine were medicines stakeholders. We aim to include broader
for rare diseases. sets of patient populations from countries
in medicine development programmes
to increase global patient access to new
innovative medicines, and optimise
regulatory approvals.GSK Annual Report 2012 15
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Consumer Healthcare The life of a patent in most countries is Our principal pharmaceutical and
20 years from the filing date. However, vaccines competitors include: Abbott
The consumer healthcare industry is
the long development time for new Laboratories, Amgen, AstraZeneca, subject to national regulation comparable
medicines can mean that a substantial Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson
to that for prescription medicines for
amount of this patent life has been & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer,
the testing, approval, manufacturing,
eroded before launch. In some markets it Roche Holdings, Sanofi and Takeda. labelling and marketing of products.
is possible to have some of this lost time
High standards of technical appraisal The Consumer Healthcare market has
restored and this leads to variations in the frequently involve a lengthy review become more challenging. Consumers
amount of patent life available for each
and approval process, which can delay are demanding better quality and better
product we market.
product launches. value. Retailers have consolidated and
In addition all of our commercial globalised, which has strengthened
Intellectual property
products are protected by registered their negotiation power. Our principle
and trademarks trademarks in major markets, and our competitors in these markets include:
trademarks are important for maintaining Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson,
The process of discovering and the brand identity of our products. There Procter & Gamble, Unilever, Pfizer
developing a new medicine or vaccine may be local variations. For example, in and Novartis.
takes many years and can cost up to the USA the trademark Advair covers the
In addition, many other smaller £1 billion. same product sold in the EU as Seretide.
companies compete with GSK in
Intellectual property and the effective Trademark protection may generally certain markets.
legal protection of our intellectual be extended as long as the trademark
property – via patents, trademarks, is used by renewing it when necessary. Outlook
registered designs, copyrights and We enforce our trademark rights to
domain name registrations – is critical prevent infringements. GSK’s globally diversified sales base and
in ensuring a reasonable reward for improved R&D output provides a clear
innovation and to fund R&D. (See pages Generic pressures platform for growth, with 2013 marking
33 to 38 for the pharmaceutical and the start of what should be a series of
vaccines development process.) When patents expire on medicines, these growth years for the Group.
medicines can be subject to competition
Patent protection for new active Specifically we expect to deliver core EPS
from generic products. The effect of this
ingredients is available in major markets, growth of 3-4% CER and sales growth of
is particularly acute in Western markets,
and patents can often be obtained for around 1% CER during the year (based
where generic products can rapidly
new drug formulations, manufacturing on the IAS 19 (Revised) adjusted EPS for
capture a large share of the market.
processes, medical uses and devices for 2012 of 111.4p). We also expect to deliver
As generic manufacturers typically do not
administering products. further strong cash generation in 2013
incur significant costs for R&D, education
and remain committed to using free cash
Emerging markets are not all aligned or market development, they are able
flow to support increasing dividends,
on their approach to recognising to offer their products at considerably
share repurchases or, where returns are
patent-protected medicines. lower prices than branded competitors.
more attractive, bolt-on acquisitions.
The same pressures do not apply as
Although we may obtain patents for
significantly to vaccines, or to products We are more confident than ever
our products, this does not prevent
where patents exist on both active that GSK is well placed to succeed in
them from being challenged before they
ingredients and the delivery device, emerging and pro-innovation markets
expire. Further, the grant of a patent
such as inhaled respiratory medicines. and that our R&D model is working.
does not mean that it will be held valid
This is creating clear, long-term
and enforceable by a court. If a court Competition capacity for GSK to deliver continued
determines that a patent we hold is
innovation and benefit to patients, and
invalid, non-infringed or unenforceable, Within the pharmaceutical industry, sustained performance and returns to
it will not protect our innovation in that competition can come from other shareholders. For risks to this outlook,
legal jurisdiction. Significant litigation companies making patent-protected see ‘Risk factors’ on pages 78 to 86.
concerning such patent challenges is medicines with indications to treat
summarised in Note 44 to the Financial similar diseases to our medicines, or
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. from manufacturers making generic
copies of our medicines following
patent expiration.16 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review
How we deliver
Our strategy is designed to deliver sustainable growth,
reduce risk and improve long-term financial performance
and returns to shareholders
Grow How we will grow
Over the past five years we have At the same time, we have re-shaped
a diversified created a more balanced business our US Pharmaceuticals and
and product portfolio, capable of Vaccines business to reflect the
global business delivering sustainable sales growth. changing market dynamics there
This is centred on our three business and to prepare for the launch of
areas of Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines multiple new products. In Europe,
and Consumer Healthcare, which we are restructuring to improve
provide us with significant efficiency and focus resources to
competitive advantages and growth opportunities in what
opportunities for synergy. continues to be a challenging
market environment.
We have substantially increased our
investment in higher-growth areas
such as emerging markets and Japan
and in our global Vaccines and
Consumer Healthcare businesses.
Read more on page 18
Deliver How we will deliver
We have changed our R&D We have broken up the traditional
more products organisation so that it is better able hierarchical R&D business model
to sustain a pipeline of products that and created smaller, more agile
of value offer valuable improvements in groups of scientists who are
treatment for patients and accountable for their projects.
healthcare providers.
All of this has been underpinned
We have increased the externalisation with a focus on improving the
of our research, allowing us to access rates of return in R&D and being
new areas of science and to share more rigorous in how we allocate
the risk of development with our investment across Pharmaceuticals,
partners. We have also changed our Vaccines and Consumer
processes to make decisions earlier, Healthcare R&D.
so that only those medicines which
are significantly differentiated from
existing therapies are progressed.
Read more on page 30
Simplify How we will simplify
As our business continues to Savings from this programme have
the operating change shape, we are transforming been generated across the business.
how we operate so that we can As this programme comes to an end,
model reduce complexity and become we are continuing to examine ways
more efficient. to simplify our operating model and
increase efficiencies.
Over the past four years we have
implemented a global restructuring We have therefore begun a
programme designed to deliver new, major change programme
significant savings to support across manufacturing, R&D and
investment in our priority growth Europe to deliver further savings.
businesses as well as offset pressures The new programme includes a
on the Group’s margin resulting series of technological advances
from changes in the shape and mix and opportunities to eliminate
of our business. complexities and improve our
competitiveness further.
Read more on page 42GSK Annual Report 2012 17
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
£26.4bn Financial architecture Our values and behaviours
Our financial architecture is designed to As we work towards our goals,
Group turnover
support the delivery and execution of the how we deliver success is just as
Group’s strategy, and drive sustainable important as what we achieve. There
26%
growth in core earnings per share and are many ethical issues associated
free cash flow in order to maximise total with the research and development,
of sales from returns to shareholders. manufacture and sale of our products,
emerging markets and our relationships with healthcare
The architecture has established four key
professionals, patients and regulators.
financial priorities for GSK in delivering
Ethical conduct is a priority for GSK
sustainable sales growth, improving
and we put the interests of patients and
our operating leverage, improving our
consumers first and are driven by our
financial efficiency and converting more
values – transparency, respect, integrity,
of our earnings into cash. patient-focus – in everything we do.
By applying this framework we can
We understand that without the
drive better and more consistent
application of these values by a talented,
decision making across the company
diverse and engaged workforce, we
and improve delivery of our key
cannot execute our strategy. We are
6 financial objectives of earnings per
focused on supporting our employees
share growth and free cash flow
and creating a culture where values-
generation. This can then be returned
Key product filings to shareholders or reinvested in bolt-on based decision making guides all
business practices. These values are
acquisitions, wherever the most
£1.4bn
attractive returns are available. Our
backed up by a clear Code of Conduct,
robust compliance systems, and training
decisions are rigorously benchmarked
and support that help employees make
New product sales using a cash flow return on investment
the right decisions.
(CFROI) returns based framework.
Our strong policy and compliance
We have also improved our financial
programmes help to embed these
reporting to align it more closely with
behaviours, as does the leadership
our architecture. We are providing more
from our Board and Central Executive
data and insights into the progress we
Team. Our board is active in ensuring
are making in each of our businesses
corporate governance that oversees
and regions and on our progress against
and informs sound decision making
the key drivers of operational and
by executive management.
financial efficiency.
In 2012 we transitioned our reporting
to a core basis, enabling greater
£2.5bn
visibility of the underlying
performance of the business.
Annual benefits from
restructuring
194days
Working capital cycle down
from 202 days in 2011
Read more on page 46 Read more on page 4918 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review
Grow DeliverSimplify
Grow
a diversified
global business
Overview
Over the past five years we have created a
more balanced business and product portfolio,
capable of delivering sustainable sales growth.
This is centred on our three business areas
of Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare, which we believe offer significant
competitive advantage and opportunity
for synergies.
We have substantially increased our
investment in higher-growth areas such
as emerging markets and Japan and in
our global Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare businesses.
At the same time, we have re-shaped our
US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business
to reflect changing market dynamics and
to prepare for the launch of multiple new
products. In Europe, we are restructuring
to improve efficiencies and focus resources
on growth opportunities in what continues
to be a challenging environment.GSK Annual Report 2012 19
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Progress
Reported turnover for the year was down 1% but was flat adjusting
for the disposal of our non-core OTC brands. Overall, strong
performances in EMAP and other growth businesses largely offset
declines in the USA and Europe.
Total sales in emerging markets now account for 26% of our business
and grew 10% during the year.
Our vulnerability to generic competition has been declining, with sales
of ‘White pills in Western markets’ now accounting for only 21% of
turnover, down from 36% in 2008.
Group turnover £bn White pills in Western markets £bn*
((11)) ((33)) ((11)) Reported growth CER % (17) (8) (10) Reported growth CER %
28.4 £26.4bn 24 21%
27.4
26.4 22
21
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012
Turnover in major growth areas £bn** Sales in emerging markets £bn
51 53 54 % of Group turnover 21 23 26 % of Group turnover
14.6 £14.3bn 6.8 26%
14.4
14.3 6.4
6.1
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012
Priorities
Our globally diversified sales base, coupled with strong R&D output,
provides us with a platform for sustainable future growth.
We will continue to invest in our key growth businesses such as
emerging markets and Consumer Healthcare to support this outlook.
In pro-innovation markets like the USA and Japan, our priority during
the year is to prepare for the launch of multiple new products from
the pipeline.
In Europe, our focus is on restructuring our pharmaceutical business to
reduce costs and reallocate resources. We are also considering other
strategic options to maximise the value of our portfolio in the region.
* See page 56 (Financial Review) ** See page 720 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Grow a diversified global business
US
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Turnover £bn The fundamentals of our US In the respiratory market, sales of medicines
increased and our business grew 1% as the
business are strong despite
£7.0bn respiratory controller segment returned to
pressure from generics and overall prescription volume growth during
7.6
7.0 7.0 26% of Group turnover product discontinuations. the year. This followed a decline in 2011
after the Food and Drug Administration
We remain confident in our revised its class labeling of controllers.
Sales of Advair, our largest product,
ability to deliver growth
increased 1%, while Flovent sales declined
through our pipeline of new 1%. Sales of Ventolin were up 14%.
medicines and performance Strong performances by Lovaza (up 5%),
Lamictal (up 18%), Promacta (up 66%),
of newly launched products.
Votrient (up 59%) and Arzerra (up 23%),
also helped us offset the loss of patent
Marketplace exclusivity for Arixtra and argatroban and
2010 2011 2012
the loss of Avandia sales. Our new
The US healthcare market continued
treatment for lupus, Benlysta, contributed
Operating profit £bn to change rapidly in 2012 as patients, sales of £65 million during the year.
providers and payers sought improved
£4.8bn care and lower costs. This drive for In our Vaccines business, turnover was flat.
value, along with the implementation A decline in flu vaccine sales was offset by
5.0 4.8 of healthcare reform, has spurred sales of Pediarix, which increased 32% and
4.6
consolidation among healthcare Boostrix which grew by 35%.
organisations and providers, including
During the year, our pipeline continued
hospitals, health maintenance
its strong momentum with several
organisations, preferred provider
products receiving FDA approval
organisations, home health agencies and
including: Votrient for sarcoma, Promacta
hospices. This is changing the way care is
for hepatitis C thrombocytopenia,
provided and paid for in the USA.
MenHibrix vaccine for meningitis (C&Y)
In this environment, decisions on and infuenza type b, raxibacumab for
purchasing and prescribing increasingly anthrax inhalation and Fabior foam in
are being made at a central point, and dermatology. In addition during the year,
2010 2011 2012 the pharmaceutical industry is having to we submitted five medicines to the FDA:
adapt its approach to product marketing respiratory medicines Breo and Anoro;
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 2012 if it is to continue to work effectively with oncology medicines dabrafenib and
healthcare providers and payers. trametinib (BRAF and MEK), and
Growth
albiglutide for diabetes.
£m CER %
Performance
1 Respiratory 3,388 1 The year was also significant as we
2 Anti-virals 57 (42) Throughout the year, we have continued
completed settlements with the US
3 Central nervous system 510 6 to transform our business so that we can
Government on a broad range of long-
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,461 (5) effectively market and sell our medicines
standing legal cases. Over the past several
5 Metabolic (12) – and vaccines and provide the value our
6 Anti-bacterials 20 (63) years, we have taken actions at all levels
customers demand in this challenging
7 Oncology and emesis 321 18 of the business to change our procedures
healthcare environment.
8 Vaccines 826 – for compliance, marketing and selling
9 Dermatology 228 (14) The business has demonstrated its to embed a new way for the business
10 Rare diseases 117 10 underlying strength with strong to operate. By instilling a values-based
11 Immuno-inflammation 65 >100
performance from products serving the culture within our organisation, we are
respiratory, neuroscience, vaccine and committed to operating our business with
oncology markets. Overall sales were transparency, integrity and respect and
down 2%, although excluding the impact to focus on the best interests of patients.
of Avandia, sales were flat. Throughout the year, we continued to
transform our business model.
Operating profit increased 1% to
£4.8 billion as a result of our continuing In 2012, we also provided £100 million
efforts to simplify our processes and worth of GSK medicines and vaccines
produce efficiencies in our operations. to over 350,000 uninsured or under
insured patients enrolled in our patient
assistance programmes.GSK Annual Report 2012 21
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Grow DeliverSimplify
Europe
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Turnover £bn The economic climate and In our Pharmaceuticals business, turnover
declined 8%. Sales by volume of Seretide,
government austerity
£5.0bn our asthma and COPD product, increased
measures continue to but revenue declined 4% because of price
6.5
cuts. Our oncology products – Votrient,
5.7 19% of Group turnover impact our performance. Promacta and Arzerra – performed well,
5.0 We maintain our and sales of Duodart and Avodart, which
treat benign prostatic hyperplasia, grew determination to develop
9%, even though Duodart did not have
our business and build on market access approval in France and Italy.
the opportunity provided While gaining approval from
governments to market products
by the flow of new products
continues to be a challenge, we did
from our pipeline. see improvements in 2012. Prolia, a
treatment for osteoporosis, and Benlysta,
2010 2011 2012
for lupus, have now been launched in
Marketplace
almost all markets in Europe.
Operating profit £bn
The economic climate in Europe
In our Vaccines business, reported
continues to pose challenges for
£2.6bn
pharmaceutical companies and a wide
turnover declined by 4%, reflecting
the austerity-driven price cuts and the
3.7 range of businesses and industries.
introduction of national tenders in
Austerity programmes are pressuring several countries.
3.2 governments to find new ways of
tightening healthcare budgets. The Throughout Europe, we have sought
2.6
stringent austerity measures implemented to work with those governments
by some countries affected not only the implementing austerity measures to find
pricing of medicines but also patients’ ways to manage both patient demand
access to new treatments. and healthcare expenditure. Over 2012,
this partnership approach resulted in
One particular concern is that the
no interruption to supply to those
operation of reference pricing, where
countries and an overall reduction
prices are set in reference to those charged
in our overdue receivables.
in other countries, could create additional
2010 2011 2012
pressure if levels set for a country under Our support for charitable programmes
severe austerity measures are adopted that strengthen healthcare in the
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 2012
by others. communities and regions where we
Growth operate remains an important part of our
£m CER % Performance business. Our financial support each year
1 Respiratory 1,906 (5) Our European business continued to totals more than €1 million in Europe
2 Anti-virals 74 (23)
be affected by austerity measures, with (excluding the UK).
3 Central nervous system 386 (15)
overall sales down 7%.
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 504 1 Following a review in 2012, we will
5 Metabolic 29 (49) To respond to the challenging business be further restructuring our European
6 Anti-bacterials 403 (17) climate, we continued to invest in our business to reduce costs, improve
7 Oncology and emesis 256 11
products while reducing operating costs efficiency and re-allocate resource to
8 Vaccines 980 (4)
by 3% compared with 2011. Despite support growth opportunities in Europe.
9 Dermatology 156 5
10 Rare diseases 123 (6) these initiatives, operating profit fell by As we reduce our European cost base,
11 Immuno-inflammation 4 >100 11%, primarily owing to the loss of sales. we will also be evaluating further
strategic options to ensure we are able
to maximise the value of our current
and future portfolio.22 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Grow a diversified global business
EMAP
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Turnover £bn Despite volatility across the Our Developing Countries Market
Access (DCMA) unit, which manages our
region, our Emerging
£4.7bn commercial business in the world’s 50
Markets and Asia Pacific poorest countries and focuses on volume
4.7
4.5 rather than profit growth, also performed
4.3 18% of Group turnover business continues to
well. DCMA unit sales increased 61% in
perform very strongly with 2012 to £158 million.
growth across both vaccines Overall, EMAP Pharmaceuticals turnover
increased 8%, with improved momentum
and pharmaceuticals.
after a slow first quarter, as strong growth
in respiratory combined with good
Marketplace performances in a number of established
brands and the newer oncology portfolio.
In 2012 overall market growth in
the EMAP region slowed somewhat. Sales of our innovative brands continue
2010 2011 2012 Global economic factors played a to outpace the market with Seretide,
part, but increasing price controls, Avodart/Duodart and Avamys all gaining
Operating profit £bn funding constraints and aggressive market share. We have also seen a
local competition also contributed. number of very promising product
£1.6bn
However, we believe the business
launches across the region, with strong
uptake of Duodart in the Philippines and
1.6 environment in the region remains
Prolia in Brazil, Russia and Argentina.
1.5 strong, with growing populations,
expanding middle classes and higher Benlysta, our treatment for lupus, is
1.3
spending on healthcare, and we are now approved in ten countries in the
confident that the region will continue region including Russia and Taiwan and
to provide a significant contribution to launched in four. We are also preparing
growth in the pharmaceutical industry for the launch of several products within
over the long term. our late-stage pipeline, with regulatory
filings completed for Relvar in the
Performance Philippines, Taiwan and Brazil.
We have a strong presence in many high-
Our classic brands business grew 5%
growth EMAP markets across both our
with strong performances from Augmentin
2010 2011 2012 Vaccines and Pharmaceuticals businesses.
(up 8%) Ventolin (up 10%) and Zeffix (up
We made good progress in 2012 with 3%) including successful tender wins for
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 2012
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover medicines such as Augmentin and Ventolin
Growth growth of 10%. Throughout the region, in Saudi Arabia, Russia, South Korea and
£m CER % growth was strong across the three main Kazakhstan.
1 Respiratory 858 13
pillars of our business: innovative brands
2 Anti-virals 360 2 Despite some quarterly volatility,
(up 15%), classic brands (up 5%) and
3 Central nervous system 329 8 Vaccines growth of 14% was driven
vaccines (up 14%).
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 292 18 by Synflorix, Rotarix and Cervarix.
5 Metabolic 65 10 Regionally, we saw strong growth in Latin Synflorix has proven to be a particularly
6 Anti-bacterials 735 5 America (up 11% to £1,257 million), successful launch and we also saw solid
7 Oncology and emesis 131 48
China (up 17% to £759 million) and performance from our base paediatric
8 Vaccines 1,107 14
India (up 10% to £304 million) partly Vaccines business.
9 Dermatology 388 7
10 Rare diseases 48 20 offset by the effect of mandatory price
reductions in a number of markets,
including Turkey and Korea.GSK Annual Report 2012 23
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Operating profit grew 9% to £1.6 billion, This represents a substantial
broadly in line with sales growth. contribution to the United Nation’s
Millennium Development Goal to
Our commitment to increase access to
reduce child mortality.
our medicines across the EMAP region
while sustaining operating profit growth In the 49 least-developed countries
was demonstrated by the continuing covered by our DCMA unit, we price GSK
expansion of our flexible pricing medicines at 25% of developed market
initiatives and affordability partnerships. prices for innovative brands and vaccines.
For example in 2012 we launched a new, We also reinvest 20% of the profits we
lower-cost pack of four Ventolin rotacaps make in those countries back into local
with a low-cost inhaler in Indonesia. This healthcare infrastructure.
will provide patients with an affordable
and effective treatment and will now be
rolled out across other EMAP markets.
GSK’s contracts with the GAVI Alliance
are central to our strategy to increase
access to vaccines in developing countries.
We anticipate that the programmes
resulting from this partnership will
vaccinate more than 75 million children
against gastrointestinal diarrhoea caused
by rotavirus over the coming five years,
and 160 million children against
pneumococcal disease by 2020.
(See page 24 for more information
on this programme in Yemen).
We have committed to supply to GAVI
132 million doses of Rotarix over five
years and 480 million doses of Synflorix
over ten years. During 2012, six new
GAVI-eligible countries introduced Rotarix
and two additional countries, Pakistan
and Madagascar, introduced Synflorix.24 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Grow a diversified global business
EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued
Case study
Wider access to vaccines
In August the government of Yemen introduced rotavirus vaccines in its
national immunisation programme to help prevent thousands of children’s
deaths from severe diarrhoea. This programme was made possible through
our commitment to the GAVI Alliance.
We committed to supply GAVI with up to 132 million doses of our rotavirus
vaccine over the next five years and a minimum of 480 million doses of our
pneumococcal vaccine over the next ten years. The vaccines are priced at a
small fraction of developed world prices, as they are intended to reach
children in the world’s poorest countries where the burden of illness is
often the highest.
By partnering with GAVI, our vaccines can reach more children. The
arrangement provides us with security around high volume and long
term supply, allowing us to operate a sustainable business model.
Pictured: Infant receiving a vaccine in Yemen.
nemeY/friahS-lA_arimA/2102/IVAGGSK Annual Report 2012 25
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Grow DeliverSimplify
Japan
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Turnover £bn Despite scheduled We benefited from this revision system,
with 23 compounds, 51 formulations
government price
£2.0bn receiving the premium.
revisions and the
2.1 Pharmaceuticals turnover grew 3%
2.0 2.0 7% of Group turnover completion of the cervical with strong growth from the recently
launched products, Lamictal, Avodart and
cancer vaccine catch up
Volibris, partly offset by the impact of the
programme in March, mandatory biennial price cuts, which
impacted growth by approximately 4
our Japanese business
percentage points, and increasing generic
performed strongly competition to Paxil. The respiratory
portfolio grew 6% to £624 million, with
during 2012.
strong contributions from Adoair sales
(6%) and Xyzal offsetting declines in
Marketplace Flixonase and Zyrtec. 2010 2011 2012
Japan’s pharmaceutical market grew Paxil, our leading CNS product, faced
Operating profit £bn by about 2% in 2012, affected by the strong challenges from newly launched
government’s scheduled reimbursement anti-depressants and from a generic
£1.2bn price revisions, which take place every version entering the market in June.
two years. While sales fell 20%, Paxil together with
1.2 1.2 1.2
newly introduced Paxil CR, remains a
A state-funded cervical cancer leader in the anti-depressants market.
vaccination programme for girls, and
Hib and pneumococcal vaccine for On the approval of ReQuip CR, the
infants and young children, also had an Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare
impact on pharmaceutical companies’ recommended switching patients from
earnings during the year. regular ReQuip based on the benefits the
new formulation offered.
Performance
We have had 72 regulatory approvals
The market in Japan continues since 2000, and six of those approvals
to encourage innovation, and our
coming in 2012. New approvals
business performed strongly. While
granted in the year include: Samtirel for
2010 2011 2012 our turnover fell 6% in 2012 to
pneumocystis pneumonia, Paxil CR for
£1,969 million, this largely reflected
depression, ReQuip CR for Parkinson’s
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 2012 an adverse comparison with 2011
disease, Votrient for soft tissue sarcoma,
which benefited from particularly
Growth Botox for hyperhydrosis and Malaron for
£m CER % strong Cervarix sales due to an HPV malaria. New product filings were made
1 Respiratory 624 6 vaccination catch up programme. for Relvar in asthma/COPD and Arzerra
2 Anti-virals 221 (9) Excluding Cervarix, turnover
for chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
3 Central nervous system 391 (3) increased by 5%.
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 116 32 Our Vaccines business recorded sales
5 Metabolic 72 (20) The price revision was conducted of £176 million, boosted by the
6 Anti-bacterials 29 (6) under the new provisional drug pricing government-funded immunisation
7 Oncology and emesis 56 38 system, which provides premiums to
programmes, though the completion of
8 Vaccines 176 (50) patent-protected medicines so that
the HPV catch-up programme impacted
9 Dermatology 33 – prices are maintained during the
total sales. Rotarix, which launched in late
10 Rare diseases 188 15 exclusivity period. The new system
2011, contributed sales of £44 million.
means pharmaceutical manufacturers
with off-patent products suffer a larger
reduction in the reimbursement prices
compared with manufacturers with
strong innovation portfolios.26 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Grow a diversified global business
Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued
Operating profit of £1.2 billion fell 7%,
Case study
reflecting the loss of sales compared
with 2011. Japan: a market rewarding innovation
GSK and Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd started
a new vaccines joint venture, Japan Japan is a market that rewards healthcare innovation and we have
Vaccine Co Ltd (JVC). The venture, in significantly grown sales and market share in the country over recent
which GSK has a 50% stake, will hold years as we have launched multiple new products.
the commercial rights in the market
In 2012, we had six approvals, bringing our total number of regulatory
for existing vaccines from both parent
approvals to 72 since 2000. We have the potential for approximately 30
companies and is responsible for late-
more launches in Japan over the next three years.
stage development. It creates significant
economies of scale in the development A key focus for our Japanese business has been to reduce the time lag
and distribution of vaccines in the between the submission of new medicines in the USA/EU and submissions to
Japanese market. the Japanese regulatory authorities. Previously, this time frame had been
several years, but through better global collaboration on development and
The country continues to recover from
safety studies, we have been able to reduce this to a matter of months.
the earthquake and tsunami of March
2011. Our employees’ volunteer team, Our new asthma/COPD medicine Relvar, for example, was filed in Japan only
Team Orange, which formed following three months after its first western submission by taking this global approach.
the catastrophe, continued to provide If approved, it will add to our established respiratory medicine portfolio in
help and support to people in the affected the country.
areas. We also worked to raise funds
for a scholarship programme targeting
students impacted by the disaster.
The year ended with GSK Japan being
designated 2012 company of the year
by the British Chamber of Commerce
in Japan.GSK Annual Report 2012 27
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Grow DeliverSimplify
Consumer Healthcare
Turnover £bn Our Consumer Healthcare markets. In 2012, our weight-loss product
alli experienced a major interruption
business continues to
£5.1bn from our supplier, impacting our sales.
perform strongly, particularly
5.3 Our smoking reduction and cessation
5.1 5.1
19% of Group turnover in emerging markets. products also performed well in the year,
gaining share in both North America
and Europe. Another contributor was
Marketplace our pain management category. Sales in
The market for consumer healthcare this category continued to benefit from
products operated at two distinct speeds the roll-out of our patented Optizorb
in 2012, with strong growth in emerging technology to Panadol concept brands,
economies contrasting sharply with including Panadol in Europe, Asia and
challenging environments in western Latin America, Dolex in Colombia and
Europe and North America. Competition Crocin in India.
was intense as companies sought to
2010 2011 2012 The Oral care category led growth at 8%
outpace market growth in developed
versus market growth of approximately
economies and improve their presence in
Operating profit £bn 4%. Sensodyne became the business’s first
the emerging markets.
‘billion-dollar brand’ in 2012, boosted by
£0.9bn Performance the global roll-out of Sensodyne Repair &
Protect and the launch of Sensodyne Repair
1.1 Our Consumer Healthcare business was
& Protect Whitening and Extra Fresh.
1.0 restructured in late 2011 into four large, Our denture care business also registered
high-value categories: Total wellness,
0.9 strong growth in 2012 (up 12%),
Oral care, Nutrition and Skin health.
with particularly positive results from
The benefit of this new structure began
expansion in emerging markets (up 17%).
to be realised in 2012. Total turnover,
excluding the sales of the non-core OTC In Nutrition, which registered global
brands, increased 5% to £5.1 billion with growth of 8%, Horlicks continued to grow
relatively consistent performance over in the Indian sub-continent. In 2012, the
the quarters. This reflected continued Horlicks Family Nutrition range sold close
growth in Oral care, Nutrition and Total to 300 million sachets in India.
wellness, partly offset by a small decline
The Maxinutrition range, which we
2010 2011 2012 in Skin health. In addition, we took steps
acquired in 2011, continued strong
to increase the global availability of our
growth in 2012 of 21%. We have
Breakdown of turnover brands with 44 innovations that reached
announced a review evaluating strategic
nearly 90 countries.
Growth options for our Lucozade and Ribena
£m CER %
On a regional basis, US sales grew 2% drinks brands, which are primarily
1 Total wellness 2,008 (10)
and European sales were flat, both marketed in established western markets.
2 Oral care 1,797 8
3 Nutrition 1,050 8 impacted by continuing economic These brands are iconic and the review
4 Skin health 255 (1) pressures and the drag from supply will look at the best ways to ensure their
interruptions to alli during the year. continued growth.
The rest of world markets grew 12%,
Our Skin health business registered a 1%
with India, the Middle East and China
decline in 2012. Strong performances in
making strong contributions. By early
wound care with Bactroban in China and
2013, we had completed our plans to
good growth on lip care with Zovirax and
increase our stake in our Indian Consumer
the introduction of Abreva Conceal in the
Healthcare subsidiary from 43.2% to
USA were offset by declines on Hinds in
72.5%, increasing our presence in this
Latin America and Oilatum in the UK.
important and fast-growing market.
Operating profit of £0.9 billion fell 9%,
Sales from our Total wellness business
reflecting the disposal of the non-core
fell 10%, but when sales from the
OTC brands.
divested non-core OTC brands were
excluded, sales grew 2%. Within this
business, our gastro-intestinal products
registered 11% growth through the
launch of Tums Freshers in the USA and
strong performance of ENO in emerging28 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Grow a diversified global business
Consumer Healthcare continued
Case study
Reaching into rural communities
Our Indian business is our fastest-growing Consumer Healthcare business,
with average sales growth of 18% over the past five years. The business
generated revenues of over £400 million in 2012.
Operating across Nutrition, Total wellness and Oral care categories we
have a number of leading brands in India, but the biggest by far is Horlicks.
In 2012, we sold close to 150 million drink sachets of Horlicks.
But in India, Horlicks is more than a drink. We have evolved this iconic
household brand into a range of nutritional products, including breakfast
cereals, biscuits and instant noodles. The original trademark product has
diversified into specialised formulations for different consumers including
Junior Horlicks, Women’s Horlicks and Mother’s Horlicks.
We have been increasing availability of Horlicks in rural markets, reaching an
additional 10,000 villages in 2012. In addition, harnessing the popularity and
strong reputation with Indian consumers of the brand, we are working with
community organisations, schools, mothers’ groups, local doctors, pharmacies,
and mobile vans to provide advice and education on health and nutrition in
remote rural communities where up to 70% of the population lives.
Through this network, we are also working with local healthcare providers
to increase these communities’ access to key medicines to treat diseases that
greatly worsen the blight of malnutrition. We are concentrating efforts on
improving access to medicines such as Zentel for worm infestations, Fesovit
for iron deficiency, other vitamin and mineral supplements and treatments
for respiratory problems.GSK Annual Report 2012 29
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Grow DeliverSimplify
ViiV Healthcare
Turnover £bn Our HIV/AIDS business The new agreement enables ViiV
Healthcare to advance the portfolio
withstood generic
£1.4bn most effectively and efficiently while
competition on a number maximising the full potential long-term
1.6 1.6
value of the assets. In return Shionogi
1.4 5% of Group turnover of products, finishing the receives representation on the ViiV
year with a significant filing. Healthcare board and becomes a 10%
shareholder in the company.
Marketplace Regulatory submissions for our
investigational integrase inhibitor
In 2012 an estimated 34 million
dolutegravir in Europe, the USA and
people worldwide were reported as
Canada were completed following receipt
living with HIV.
of Phase III data from the comprehensive
The market for HIV medicines is highly trial programme in naive and treatment-
competitive with multiple new market experienced patients. The FDA has now
2010 2011 2012
entrants and an increasing number of granted this priority review. Submission
generic competitors in the USA and of regulatory files for a dolutegravir
Operating profit £bn Europe. Scientific progress in HIV is fixed-dose combination with Epzicom/
marked by new therapies that can provide Kivexa is anticipated in 2013.
£0.8bn
benefits over existing medicines’ efficacy,
Providing a comprehensive, sustainable
0.9 0.9 tolerability and resistance profiles.
approach to improving access to HIV
0.8 Performance medicines remains a key priority for ViiV
Healthcare. This commitment covers
In 2012, turnover for ViiV Healthcare
135 countries including middle-income
was £1.4 billion, down 10% from the
countries, low-income countries, least-
previous year. The decline in sales was
developed countries and sub-Saharan
anticipated as our mature product
Africa. We offer royalty-free voluntary
portfolio including Combivir, Epivir and
licences and not-for-profit pricing in all
Ziagen in the USA experienced generic
low-income and least-developed countries
competition. This impact was partly and in sub-Saharan Africa, where 75%
offset by strong performances from
of all people with HIV currently live. In
Epzicom/Kivexa and Selzentry/Celsentri.
middle-income countries, the approach
2010 2011 2012
Sales of Epzicom/Kivexa grew by 10% to is on a case-by-case basis, taking into
£665 million, while sales of Selzentry/ account the local needs, with a tiered-
Breakdown of turnover
Celsentri were £128 million, up 20%. This pricing policy based on Gross Domestic
Growth was driven by increasing early-line use in Product and the burden of the epidemic
£m CER % the USA and broader uptake of genotypic to improve affordability. All marketed and
1 Combivir 179 (43)
tropism testing in Europe. Rapid pipeline HIV medicines are covered by our
2 Epivir 49 (54)
expansion of Selzentry/Celsentri continued access policy.
3 Epzicom/Kivexa 665 10
4 Lexiva 127 (9) in the international region with first- ViiV Healthcare also spearheaded
5 Selzentry 128 20 line approvals in several large markets initiatives to address paediatric HIV
6 Trizivir 107 (13) including Japan, Argentina and Australia.
in 2012. These include a collaboration
Despite the fall in sales, operating profit with the Clinton Health Access Initiative
of £0.8 billion was flat in CER terms, (CHAI) and Mylan Pharmaceuticals
primarily reflecting robust cost control to produce a taste-masked, dispersible
and changes in the mix of products sold. medicine for paediatric use in resource-
limited settings. Significant unrestricted
ViiV Healthcare was established by GSK
educational grants were also provided
and Pfizer in 2009. In October 2012 ViiV
to five organisations to support the
Healthcare and Shionogi agreed that
collection of paediatric data, information
ViiV Healthcare would acquire exclusive
and research. Through the Positive
global rights to the co-developed portfolio
Action programme and Positive Action
of investigational integrase inhibitors,
for Children Fund, ViiV Healthcare also
including dolutegravir.
continued to make important progress
in supporting the community response
to HIV/AIDS.30 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review
Grow DeliverSimplify
Deliver
more products
of value
Overview
We have changed our R&D organisation so that
it is better able to sustain a pipeline of products
that offer valuable improvements in treatment
for patients and healthcare providers.
We have increased the level of externalisation
of our research, allowing us to access new areas
of science and to share the risk of development
with our partners. We have also changed our
processes to make decisions earlier around
pipeline progressions, so that only those
medicines that are significantly differentiated
from existing therapies are progressed.
We have broken up the traditional
hierarchical R&D business model and created
smaller, more agile groups of scientists who
are accountable for delivering their projects.
All of this has been underpinned with a focus
on improving the rates of return in R&D
and being more rigorous in how we allocate
investment across Pharmaceutical, Vaccine
and Consumer Healthcare R&D.GSK Annual Report 2012 31
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Progress
During 2012, new vaccines were approved for flu, meningitis and
meningitis-Hib. We received two significant new indications for existing
medicines treating cancer and hepatitis.
We also filed six key new products for approval with regulators, including
treatments for respiratory disease, cancer, HIV and diabetes. This is an
unprecedented level of late-stage pipeline delivery for the company.
Overall, our return on R&D investment has been increasing and we
remain confident we can reach our long-term goal of 14%.
Sales of new Pharmaceuticals
and Vaccines products £bn Core R&D expenditure £bn
£1.4bn £3.5bn
2.5 3.7 3.7
3.5
1.7
1.4
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012
New product approvals in the USA Estimated rate of return in R&D %
3 14
12
11
2
1
2010 2011 2012 Feb Feb Target
2010 2012
Priorities
A key focus for 2013 will be to successfully progress the six key product
filings we have made, although clearly decisions on approval of these
assets will be made by regulators.
We are increasingly confident in our ability to sustain pipeline delivery
and we expect to receive Phase III data on a further 14 assets in 2013
and 2014. Delivery of this data-flow over the next two years is a priority
for the Group.
We will also continue to drive improvements in ways of working across
the R&D organisation, so that the increasing levels of output can be
maintained without increased expenditure.32 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Deliver more products of value
Investment in R&D
Research and development Our primary goal in R&D is to develop In 2010, GSK became the first major
our pipeline products safely and pharmaceutical company to publish an
is critical to ensuring we
efficiently to produce innovative new internal rate of return (IRR) on our R&D
have a sustainable business, medicines that provide improved investment, to indicate the positive value
treatments that are valued by both being realised from our choices within
and that we can continue
patients and payers. the R&D organisation. IRR provides a
to offer new medicines, measurement offering an insight into
More than 12,500 people work across our
how we manage our R&D business. This
vaccines and consumer R&D organisation, with many of these
is based on a complex methodology
based in our large R&D centres in the UK,
products that can help that weighs the R&D costs incurred
USA, Belgium and China. In 2012, our
to discover and develop our late stage
people live longer and R&D expenditure before non-core items
pipeline projects against the profits of
was £3.5 billion, representing 13.1% of
healthier lives. new medicines and vaccines as they
total turnover.
achieve regulatory approval and are made
Our R&D expenditure is split into three available to patients. It incorporates actual
parts, with proportions devoted to our and predicted sales figures on probabilities
Core R&D expenditure 2012 three areas of business: Pharmaceuticals, of success for medicines in the pipeline.
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare. We We also take into account an estimate of
3 1
allocate R&D investment consistently attributable R&D costs, estimated profit
and rationally across the three businesses. margins, capital investment and working
2
Investment in R&D is based on where capital requirements.
we see the best opportunities in both the
We have stated our long-term aim of
market and the science, rather than as
increasing our rate of return on R&D
a fixed proportion of sales. Overall, our
investment to 14%. In February 2012
R&D budget has remained relatively flat
£m for the past four years. we announced an IRR of around 12%.
1 Pharmaceuticals 2,821 This was an increase from an 11% IRR
2 Vaccines 498 The discovery and development process calculated in February 2010. The IRR
3 Consumer Healthcare 155 is long, expensive and uncertain – figure will be updated every 2-3 years,
especially in Pharmaceuticals and with the next published figure in 2014.
Vaccines R&D – and it is not possible
The calculation at February 2012 of
to predict which projects will succeed
the estimated rate of return on R&D
or fail. Further information is discussed
spending included products launched
in pages 33 to 41.
from 1 January 2009 to 31 December
Rate of return in R&D 2011 and compounds in phases IIb
and III of the development process.
Declining R&D productivity is an issue
The calculation is based on actual sales
that the pharmaceutical industry as a
from 2009 to 2011, and forecast sales
whole has faced in the past decade. As a
up to 2032, adjusted to reflect expected
result it has become more important for
failure rates, which are broadly in line
companies to provide a greater level of
with standard industry failure rates.
transparency on the returns that their
The cost base used in this calculation
R&D organisations make to determine
comprises an estimate of attributable
capital investment allocation.
R&D costs and actual and projected
The returns generated from R&D are milestone payments where appropriate.
primarily determined by the commercial Estimated working capital requirements
success of new medicines and vaccines are factored into the calculation, based
as they achieve regulatory approval and on our historical performance.
are launched.
We are confident we are on track to
deliver our long-term goal to improve
returns to around 14%.
Details of the full product development
pipeline, made up of both pharmaceutical
and vaccine assets, are set out on pages
225 to 228 and on our website. The
performance of marketed products is
discussed in detail under ‘Financial
review 2012’ on pages 57 to 59.GSK Annual Report 2012 33
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Grow DeliverSimplify
Pharmaceuticals R&D
To be successful over 2012 was a year of significant progress The process began in 2007, when all
for our R&D organisation. therapy areas were reviewed to seek
the long term, we need
the most scientifically promising areas
In the course of the year, we received
the investments we are for drug discovery and to move the
two new significant indications for
organisation from a culture predisposed
making in our pipeline existing medicines; Promacta for
to reinvest in existing areas. In 2008, as
thrombocytopenia associated with
to lead to new medicines a result of this therapy area rebalancing
hepatitis C and Votrient for the treatment
process, we changed our business model, that will be valued by of soft tissue sarcoma. In addition, we
moving to smaller, more agile and
submitted six key new medicines to
patients and those who focused Discovery Performance Units
regulators: respiratory medicines Relvar/
(DPUs) of between five and 70 scientists.
pay for the treatments. Breo and Anoro; oncology medicines
Each DPU works on a particular disease or
dabrafenib and trametinib (BRAF
pathway, and is responsible for discovery
and MEK); dolutegravir for HIV; and
and development of potential new
albiglutide for diabetes.
medicines through to early stage clinical
Highlights Two new chemical entities moved into trials (up to the completion of Phase lla).
Phase III development in 2012, while
As part of this new model, DPUs were
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0) no assets were terminated from Phase III given their own budgets and a three-year
for existing medicines Promacta development, as listed on page 40.
window to complete specific tasks. The
and Votrient
Our Core Pharmaceuticals R&D business plans of each DPU identified
expenditure was £2.8 billion in 2012, a specific targets and investment across
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:38)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)
decline of 5% from 2011. We continue to multiple years. The plans also included treating respiratory disease,
move towards sustainable replenishment opportunities for collaboration with
cancer, HIV and diabetes,
of our late-stage pipeline. external organisations, such as large and
submitted to regulators
small companies and academia. Our
More than 10,000 people work in
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0) Pharmaceuticals R&D, and we view our internal R&D expertise gives us a strong
research identified following research projects as early stage – discovery basis in identifying and forming these
collaborations, which in drug discovery
investment review – or late-stage – development.
are typically in-licensing or option-based.
Discovering new medicines The three-year mark for most DPUs was
Core Pharmaceutical R&D investment in 2012 Our early stage R&D (drug discovery) reached in late 2011/early 2012 and
seeks to identify the biological targets their business plans were reviewed by
1 involved with the development of the Discovery Investment Board (DIB),
3 diseases, and then to create small which identified areas for improvement
molecules or biopharmaceuticals that and suggested agreed progress targets
interact with these disease targets, and investment levels. Membership
ultimately leading to new medicines. of the DIB comprises senior R&D and
2 The sheer scale of scientific discoveries commercial management, and external
makes it essential that we are highly individuals with expertise including
£m selective in where we invest our drug life science investment experience and
1 Discovery 800 discovery resources. We focus on those understanding of payer perspectives.
2 Development 1,655 areas we consider most likely to lead to It is chaired by the President of R&D.
3 Facilities and central support 366 significant medical advances.
The overall review of the DPUs was
Over the last six years, we have positive and led to a number of new
transformed our R&D organisation to investment allocations in discovery
become more efficient and productive. research. Over the course of 2012, four
new DPUs have been created and three
have been closed. In addition, scientists
submitted more than 50 proposals for
new discovery performance units.34 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Deliver more products of value
Pharmaceuticals R&D continued
This outcome is consistent with our Developing medicines for patients The Portfolio Investment Board (PIB)
intentions of the DPU structure and assesses the technical, commercial and
A compound that advances into late-
DIB review – to retain flexibility in our investment case for each project to
stage development (typically after Phase
discovery research investment and to progress in development. The PIB is
IIa) will undergo much larger-scale
ensure we remain focused on where the co-chaired by the Chairman of R&D
studies in humans to investigate further
scientific opportunity remains greatest. and the President of North America
its efficacy and safety.
This will be our way of working in the Pharmaceuticals, and includes the heads
future so we can remain flexible as the At the same time, we work to optimise of each pharmaceutical region along with
landscape changes. the compound’s physical properties and the head of global manufacturing.
its formulation so that it can be produced
Overall our discovery expenditure The PIB is accountable for investment
efficiently and in sufficient quantities
remained flat at approximately decisions and funding allocation across
through the manufacturing process. We
£800 million. No individual project all late-stage Pharma R&D investments
then convert the results of these activities
has annual expenditure of more (Medicines Discovery and Development,
into a regulatory file for submission to
than 10% of the total annual R&D Biopharm R&D, Oncology, Stiefel, Rare
regulatory agencies.
expenditure. Investment decisions Diseases and Emerging Markets R&D).
have been made where the science Medicines Development Teams (MDTs) This allows investment decisions to
presents a compelling case and there are small units of six to ten people who be made in a holistic way, ensuring a
remains a need for new treatments. have responsibility for a compound balance and diversity of assets of differing
through the later stages of development risk profile, novelty, opportunity,
We have learned a great deal from the
to filing with the regulatory agencies. development cost and potential to be
first DIB review and we now expect to
There are over 30 assets in late-stage reimbursed by payers.
deliver up to 30 assets to ‘commit to
development.
medicine development’ (typically Phase Projects are reviewed by the PIB at certain
IIb) over the next three years. We also actively seek opportunities to key decision points: ‘Commit to Medicine
add products to our pipeline through Development’, ‘Commit to Phase III’ and
This increase in productivity would
alliances with other companies. For ‘Commit to File and Launch’. Funding
mean GSK is moving towards sustainable
late-stage assets, these typically take the is generally allocated up to the next
replenishment of its late-stage pipeline,
form of in-licensing or co-promotion key decision point, typically between
with no increase in cost.
arrangements and are most likely to two and four years ahead. The PIB also
be aligned to existing areas of therapy carries out an annual late-stage funding
expertise or investment. review, where investment in all projects
is reviewed, adjusted if necessary and
prioritised. No individual late-stage
project has incurred annual expenditure
of more than 10% of the total annual
R&D expenditure.
Timeline and development stages for pharmaceutical research
Drug discovery Preclinical Clinical trials Regulatory Scale up to Post marketing
review launch surveillance
Phase I Phase II Phase III
1 approved
new medicine
20-100 100-500 1,000-5,000
Number of patients/subjects
3-6 years 6-7 years 0.5-2 years
IND submitted NDA submitted
yrevocsid-erP
5,000-10,000
compounds
250
compounds
5 1
compounds
IndefiniteGSK Annual Report 2012 35
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Grow DeliverSimplify
Case study
Concentrating on development
It is estimated that it takes between nine and15 years to take a medicine from
initial research to the point it is approved by regulators and made available to
patients. Our R&D organisation has been working to reduce this time.
Two cancer medicines recently submitted to regulatory authorities, dabrafenib,
our BRAF inhibitor, and tramatenib, our MEK inhibitor, both for malignant
melanoma have shown that this can be done. Submissions to regulators took place
less than seven years from the time our teams selected these compounds as
potential anti-cancer treatments. We were able to do this by developing a deep
understanding of how these compounds worked so that we could design clinical
trials to include patients whose tumours had a specific genetic mutation that
made them susceptible to these investigational medicines.
Because both compounds worked against tumours with a genetic mutation,
we collaborated with another company to develop a diagnostic test to identify
tumours carrying this mutation.
Pictured: Representation of melanoma cells.
noitaminA
lacideM
24modnaR36 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Deliver more products of value
Pharmaceuticals R&D continued
Sales of new pharmaceutical products
Case study
launched over the last 5 years grew
by 34% and represented 7% of total Opening up access to trial data
pharmaceutical sales.
Governance Clinical trials are a vital part of the development process for all new medicines
and vaccines. We recognise the importance of sharing research from trials to
The R&D governance structure has
help advance scientific understanding and inform medical judgment.
been developed to ensure clearer
accountabilities and product reviews. Access to patient-level data from clinical trials can be valuable for researchers
The oversight of strategic issues and who want to learn about existing medicines and improve patient care. For a
overall budget management across R&D number of years GSK has responded to external requests for patient-level data
is owned by the R&D Executive team on a case-by-case basis. Now we will be more proactive, allowing researchers
(RADEX). DIB and PIB control investment to request anonymised patient-level data from our published clinical trials of
decisions in early and late-stage R&D, approved or terminated medicines. This will enable researchers to examine
as described above. trial data more closely or combine data from different studies to conduct
further research.
The Scientific Review Board (SRB) is the
governing body accountable for the Researchers will be able to submit their requests via a dedicated website.
scientific assessment of the R&D portfolio To ensure these requests have a valid scientific basis we have established
to support investment decision making at a fully independent panel to oversee requests and grant access.
the Portfolio Investment Board (PIB). At
Expanding on this, in 2013, we were the first company to sign up to the
the SRB, there will be a debate, review and
AllTrials campaign, which calls for registration of clinical trials, the disclosure
endorsement of a unified R&D view on
of clinical trial results and publication of clinical study reports which detail the
the scientific aspects of all assets. The SRB
design, methods and results of clinical trials and form the basis of submissions
establishes a view on the overall scientific
to regulators.
promise of the asset; development plan to
deliver the asset; cost effectiveness of the We also announced plans to make clinical study reports for our medicines
clinical plan; opportunities and risks to publically available through the GSK Clinical Study Register once the medicines
the likely product profile; and gaps where have been approved or discontinued from development and the results have
evidence is missing or remains uncertain. been published. We will put in place a dedicated team to work back over time
The SRB view is the formal R&D position to post reports for all approved medicines dating back to the formation
communicated at PIB. of GSK, starting with those most commonly prescribed. Patient data in the
clinical study reports will be removed to ensure patient confidentiality is
Two other important governance
maintained.
boards in R&D are the Technology
Investment Board (TIB), which makes These steps further advance our long standing commitment to openness and
investment decisions for new platform transparency of clinical trials. We already publish summary results – whether
technologies and licensing or options- these are perceived to be positive or negative – of every research trial on the GSK
based collaborations up to the point of Clinical Study Register. Almost 5,000 clinical trial result summaries are now
entry into clinical trials; and The New available and the site receives on average almost 11,000 visitors each month.
Product Supply (NPS) Board, which is
Individuals participate in our research in the hope they might bring advances
the governing body accountable for the
in healthcare. Our new plans acknowledge their commitment and reflect our
technical feasibility and infrastructure
desire to ensure that their contribution can lead to health gains, while
assessments covering all aspects of the
safeguarding their confidentiality.
physical product and supply chain.
In 2012 we developed and launched
a global regulatory board to enhance
compliance with company-wide
standards, make regulatory services more
efficient and agile, and further align
capabilities with business needs at global
and local levels. This organisation is led
by the Chief Regulatory Officer.GSK Annual Report 2012 37
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Grow DeliverSimplify
Vaccines R&D
Our Vaccines R&D is We invested £498 million in core We often work with academia and
vaccines R&D in 2012 and we have the biotech industry to identify these
centred on discovering and
more than 1,600 scientists working on new vaccine antigens. In some cases,
developing prophylactic the development of new vaccines. formulation of the vaccine into clinical
lots involves mixing antigens with GSK
and therapeutic vaccines During the year three new vaccines
proprietary adjuvant systems.
were approved; Nimenrix for meningitis
to protect people against
and MenHibrix for menigitis Hib and a Vaccine manufacturers use adjuvants to
infectious diseases, cancers quadrivalent flu vaccine. improve the specific immune system’s
response to antigens contained in
and chronic disorders. In addition we currently have around 20
vaccines. We have been innovating in
vaccines in development for a range of
the area of adjuvant systems for more
diseases, from malaria to tuberculosis and
than 20 years.
cancer. We currently have four vaccine
candidates in late-stage development: Our proprietary adjuvant systems
with trials in zoster, malaria, MMR (USA) combine adjuvants to give the most
Highlights and our therapeutic vaccine MAGE-A3. appropriate immune response to a
specific antigen. Our expertise allows us
In November we published the latest
to understand which combinations of (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0) results from the Phase III study into our
antigen and adjuvant system can help
Nimenrix, MenHibrix and Fluarix adjuvanted malaria vaccine candidate
the body mobilise the most effective
Quadrivalent (RTS,S) which is ongoing in seven
immunological pathway, and so provide
countries in Africa.
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:68)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:41)(cid:41)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0) maximum protection against specific
malaria vaccine announced Our R&D effort is focused on the diseases in targeted populations.
development of new prophylactic and
Candidate vaccines are usually a
therapeutic vaccines.
combination of several antigens, and
Discovery research the final composition of the vaccine
(antigens and adjuvant) may change over
The discovery and development of a new
time. The preclinical research usually
vaccine is a complex process requiring
takes two to five years and later stage
long-term investment. Typically it takes
clinical trials usually take another
10–12 years to develop a new vaccine.
8-10 years.
Vaccine discovery begins by identifying
As well as the discovery of new vaccines in
new antigens, which are specific
early development projects, R&D supports
structures on pathogens (viruses, bacteria
late-stage projects such as the inclusion of
or parasites) or on cancer cells that are
new antigens in existing vaccines to create
recognised by the immune system.
new generation vaccines.
We then produce these pathogens in
yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and Traditionally, vaccines have been used
genetically manipulate them so that they to prevent illness. However, we are
can be purified and formulated into a pioneering a different approach designed
vaccine. It is the antigen that creates the to programme the body’s immune
body’s immune response. system to fight existing diseases and so
represents a new treatment model as a
therapeutic vaccine. We are evaluating
the immunotherapeutic concept against
a variety of tumour types.38 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Deliver more products of value
Vaccines R&D continued
Governance Oversight of these key decisions
rests with two bodies: the Vaccine
In 2012 we further consolidated the
Development and Commercial Board
organisation of vaccine discovery and
(VDCB) and the Vaccine Investment
development teams, to simplify the
Board (VIB). The VDCB reviews the
infrastructure, focus on timely decision
research project strategy and advises
making and enhance clarity and
on its scientific, technical and
accountability. Vaccines research and
commercial feasibility.
development are led by Project Teams
and Vaccine Leadership Teams, which The board has an overall view on all
are responsible for day-to-day progress, projects, from early to advanced projects.
including identifying and developing The VDCB’s core members come from
new products. across the organisation. The VDCB
recommendation to progress a project is
There are several key decision points
submitted to the VIB.
in the vaccine development process:
commit to research (decide to initiate The VIB has the final decision on
full research program), commit to whether to invest in a project, taking into
candidate development (decide to account the scientific and commercial
invest resources to move to clinical perspectives reviewed by the VDCB. The
development); commit to early clinical VIB evaluates the public health benefit,
development; commit to Phase III; business opportunity, development
registration and launch. costs and risks, the project timing and
the overall evolution of our portfolio of
vaccines. The VIB is also responsible for
assessing the overall fit of the project in
our vaccines portfolio.
Vaccines research and development cycle
Identify Produce Pre-Clinical Phase I Phase II Proof of Phase III File Registration/
Antigens Antigens Testing concept Post marketing
surveillance
Research (including Immunology)
Pre-clinical development
Clinical development (including Post marketing surveillance)
Transfer process to manufacturing
1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years >1 yearGSK Annual Report 2012 39
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Consumer Healthcare R&D
While innovation timelines Investment in our core Consumer Through our partnership with the
Healthcare R&D was £155 million in McLaren Group, our nutrition scientists
in consumer healthcare
2012, up from £146 million in 2011. developed two bespoke Lucozade
products are significantly With more than 600 people in the formulations to support the specific
UK, USA, India and China working nutritional needs of their Formula
shorter than those in
on consumer R&D, our intention is to One drivers. The Lucozade Hydration
pharmaceuticals, satisfying develop innovative, category-defining Formulation contains a determined
products, differentiated by science and mix of essential hydration salts, the needs of the consumer
informed by consumer insights. carbohydrates and proteins to support
remains our central focus. optimal performance; the Lucozade Race
Our innovation portfolio is a critical
Formulation enhances performance
element of our Consumer Healthcare
in high temperatures while addressing
strategy, ensuring a sustainable flow of
needs for weight management, mental
new, scientifically-differentiated products.
focus and speed of absorption. These
These often include new technologies
formulations will be launched in 2013,
and formulations as well as product
targeting the unique needs of athletes,
line extensions.
Highlights serious sports people, and those involved
Sales from our innovative products in high-intensity endurance exercise.
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:13)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0) launched in recent years were 13% of Given the importance of the Chinese
combinations Consumer Healthcare global sales in market we have opened an R&D
2012, with key contributions coming
Innovation Centre in the country that
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0) from Sensodyne Repair & Protect, Panadol
will be concentrating on developing new innovation products was 13% Extra Advance and Smoking reduction
products for this fast-growing market.
and Cessation Mini Lozenges.
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0) Researchers will focus on innovations
on meeting the needs of the Innovative new products launched in specifically developed to meet the needs
Chinese consumer market 2012 included: of consumers in China.
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Tums Freshers – developed following
consumer insights, this first-of-its-kind
product combines the therapeutic
benefits of calcium carbonate for
heartburn relief with effective breath
fresheners.
(cid:85)(cid:202) Abreva Conceal – a clear, non-medicated
patch that instantly conceals cold
sores, met consumer desire to address
appearance concerns from a troubling,
recurring condition. Designed to be
used over Abreva cream, the patented
MicroAir technology in the patch
provides a protective barrier against
contaminants for eight hours while
allowing air in to promote healing.
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Horlicks Growth+ – this new addition
to the Horlicks range contains 100%
milk protein, 30 micronutrients, a
balanced macronutrient energy profile
and other ingredients important
for growth. The formulation was
developed following research on the
impact of nutritional supplementation
in children, including a major study
testing the benefits of Horlicks.40 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review Deliver more products of value
Late stage pipeline summary
We have a full and diverse product development pipeline
We identified below projects comprising new chemical entities, biological entities
or vaccines, new combinations and new indications for existing compounds that
are in Phase III, have been filed for approval or have been recently approved.
The most advanced status is shown and includes 2013 approvals.
8 6 14 2
approvals in USA or key medicines filed Phase III assets new first Phase III
EU since January 2012 since January 2012 delivered key data starts since January
during 2011 and 2012 2012
(cid:85)(cid:202) Fabior for acne vulgaris (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:76)(cid:136)(cid:125)(cid:143)(cid:213)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:96)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:222)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:22)(cid:22)(cid:202) (cid:85)(cid:202) Anoro† for COPD (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:171)(cid:156)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:226)(cid:213)(cid:147)(cid:62)(cid:76)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:195)(cid:105)(cid:219)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:202)
(USA) diabetes asthma
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:76)(cid:136)(cid:125)(cid:143)(cid:213)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:96)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:222)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:22)(cid:22)(cid:202)
(cid:85)(cid:202) MenHibrix for N.meningitis (cid:85)(cid:202) Anoro† for COPD diabetes (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:195)(cid:136)(cid:192)(cid:213)(cid:142)(cid:213)(cid:147)(cid:62)(cid:76)† for
(C&Y) and H.influenza type rheumatoid arthritis
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:96)(cid:62)(cid:76)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:118)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:136)(cid:76)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:204)(cid:62)(cid:195)(cid:204)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:86)(cid:202) (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:96)(cid:62)(cid:76)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:118)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:136)(cid:76)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:204)(cid:62)(cid:195)(cid:204)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:86)(cid:202)
b disease prophylaxis (USA) melanoma melanoma
(cid:85)(cid:202) Nimenrix for N.meningitis (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:96)(cid:156)(cid:143)(cid:213)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:125)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:219)(cid:136)(cid:192)† for HIV (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:96)(cid:156)(cid:143)(cid:213)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:125)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:219)(cid:136)(cid:192)† for HIV
(A,C, W &Y) disease
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Relvar/Breo† for COPD and (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:96)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:195)(cid:62)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:195)(cid:105)(cid:152)† for Duchenne
prophylaxis (EU)
asthma muscular dystrophy
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Promacta† for hepatitis C
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:136)(cid:76)† for metastatic (cid:85)(cid:202) Patrome (IPX066†) for
induced thrombocytopaenia
melanoma Parkinson’s disease
(USA)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:147)(cid:136)(cid:125)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:62)(cid:195)(cid:204)(cid:62)(cid:204)† for Fabry disease
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:43)(cid:213)(cid:62)(cid:96)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:219)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:202)(cid:121)(cid:213)(cid:202)(cid:219)(cid:62)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:105)(cid:202)
for seasonal influenza (cid:85)(cid:202) Mosquirix for malaria
prophylaxis (USA) (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:221)(cid:136)(cid:226)(cid:213)(cid:147)(cid:62)(cid:76)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:222)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:22)(cid:202)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:221)(cid:136)(cid:76)(cid:62)(cid:86)(cid:213)(cid:147)(cid:62)(cid:76)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:202) diabetes
& prophylaxis of anthrax (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Promacta† for
inhalation (USA) hepatitis C induced
(cid:85)(cid:202) Sorilux for scalp psoriasis thrombocytopaenia
(USA) (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Relvar/Breo† for COPD and 0
(cid:85)(cid:202) Votrient for sarcoma (USA asthma
& EU) (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:136)(cid:76)† for metastatic
melanoma
(cid:85)(cid:202) Tykerb for adjuvant breast medicines in Phase III
cancer development or
(cid:85)(cid:202) Votrient for sarcoma registration terminated
Key:
Phase III Filed Approval
Large comparative study (compound Following successful Phase III trials, we Only when approval is granted can we
versus placebo and/or established treatment) file the product for approval by the begin to market the medicine or vaccine.
in patients to establish clinical benefit regulatory authorities. Our full pipeline is on pages 225 to 228
and safety. and on our website.
† In-licence or other alliance relationship with a third partyGSK Annual Report 2012 41
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Grow DeliverSimplify
Phase III/registration Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines pipeline summary
Therapeutic area Compound Indication Phase III Filed Approved
Biopharmaceuticals Arzerra (ofatumumab)† chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy & use in (cid:115)
relapsed patients
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† diffuse large B cell lymphoma (relapsed patients) (cid:115)
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† follicular lymphoma (refractory & relapsed patients) (cid:115)
Benlysta (belimumab) systemic lupus erythematosus (cid:115)
Benlysta (belimumab) vasculitis (cid:115)
mepolizumab severe asthma (cid:115)
sirukumab† rheumatoid arthritis (cid:115)
albiglutide type 2 diabetes (cid:115)
raxibacumab inhalation anthrax (cid:115)
Cardiovascular & metabolic darapladib atherosclerosis (cid:115)
Immuno-inflammation vercirnon (1605786)† Crohn's disease (cid:115)
Infectious diseases Relenza i.v. (zanamivir)† influenza (cid:115)
Neurosciences Patrome (IPX066†) Parkinson's disease (cid:115)
Oncology trametinib† + dabrafenib metastatic melanoma, adjuvant therapy (cid:115)
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) breast cancer, adjuvant therapy (cid:115)
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) gastric cancer (cid:115)
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) head & neck squamous cell carcinoma (resectable disease) (cid:115)
Votrient (pazopanib) ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy (cid:115)
Votrient (pazopanib) renal cell cancer, adjuvant therapy (cid:115)
dabrafenib metastatic melanoma (cid:115)
trametinib† metastatic melanoma (cid:115)
trametinib† + dabrafenib metastatic melanoma (cid:115)
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) metastatic breast cancer, in combination with trastuzumab (cid:115)
Votrient (pazopanib) sarcoma (cid:115)
Revolade/Promacta (eltrombopag)† hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia (cid:115)
Respiratory & fluticasone furoate (685698) asthma (cid:115)
immuno-inflammation Relvar/Breo COPD – mortality outcomes (cid:115)
(vilanterol† + fluticasone furoate)
umeclidinium (573719) COPD (cid:115)
vilanterol† COPD (cid:115)
Relvar/Breo asthma (cid:115)
(vilanterol† + fluticasone furoate)
Relvar/Breo COPD (cid:115)
(vilanterol† + fluticasone furoate)
Anoro (umeclidinium + vilanterol†) COPD (cid:115)
Paediatric vaccines MMR measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis (cid:115)
Mosquirix (Malaria RTS,S) malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) (cid:115)
MenHibrix (Hib-MenCY-TT) Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y & Haemophilus influenzae (cid:115)
type b disease prophylaxis
Nimenrix (MenACWY-TT) Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis (cid:115)
Other vaccines Zoster Herpes Zoster prevention (cid:115)
Flu (pre-) pandemic pre-pandemic & pandemic influenza prophylaxis (cid:115)
Flu vaccine seasonal influenza prophylaxis (cid:115)
Antigen-Specific Cancer MAGE-A3 immunotherapeutic† treatment of melanoma (cid:115)
Immunotherapeutic MAGE-A3 immunotherapeutic† treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (cid:115)
Rare diseases drisapersen (2402968)† Duchenne muscular dystrophy (cid:115)
2696273† adenosine deaminase severe combined immune deficiency (ADA-SCID) (cid:115)
migalastat HCl† Fabry disease (cid:115)
Dermatology alitretinoin† chronic hand eczema (cid:115)
Duac low dose acne vulgaris (cid:115)
Fabior (tazarotene foam) acne vulgaris (cid:115)
Sorilux scalp psoriasis (cid:115)
HIV dolutegravir† + abacavir sulphate HIV infections – fixed dose combination (cid:115)
+ lamivudine
dolutegravir† HIV infections (cid:115)
† In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party42 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review
Grow DeliverSimplify
Simplify
the operating model
Overview
As our business continues to change shape,
we are transforming how we operate so
that we can reduce complexity and become
more efficient.
Over the past four years we have implemented
a global restructuring programme designed
to deliver significant savings to support
investment in our priority growth businesses as
well as offset pressures on the Group’s margin
resulting from changes in the shape and mix
of our business. Savings from this programme
have been generated across the business,
including in R&D, manufacturing and through
the centralisation and streamlining of our
support functions such as finance, HR and IT.
As this programme comes to an end, we
are continuing to examine further ways
to simplify our operating model and
increase efficiencies.
We have begun a new major change
programme across manufacturing, R&D and
Europe to deliver further savings and build
capabilities. The new programme includes
a series of technological advances and
opportunities to eliminate complexities
and further improve our competitiveness.GSK Annual Report 2012 43
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Progress
Our restructuring programme has now delivered annual savings of
£2.5 billion and remains on track to hit the target we set of £2.8 billion
of annual savings by 2014.
Costs for support functions have been reduced by one-fifth since 2008.
We have also reduced our fixed infrastructure R&D footprint by 50%
while increasing productivity and output from the pipeline.
Despite reducing our carbon footprint from energy use by 15% since
2010, our total carbon footprint (excluding that from raw materials)
increased by 7% compared to 2010 driven by higher inhaler sales.
However, current carbon reduction projects should enable us to reach
our interim target to cut our value chain carbon footprint by 10% to
13.5 million tonnes of CO equivalent by 2015.
2
Major change programme
Operational Excellence annual savings £bn anticipated savings £bn
£2.5bn £1.0bn
2.5 0.9
2.2 by 2016
0.7
1.7
0.3
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
Working capital days Pharmaceuticals R&D footprint 000m2
194days 293,000m2
214 388
202
194
295 293
2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012
Priorities
Through our new major change programme, we have identified
£1 billion of additional annual savings by 2016 across manufacturing,
R&D and our European pharmaceutical business. Delivering this
programme is a key priority over the next three years.
During 2013 we will also be focused on the reform of our supply
chain to simplify processes and reduce inventory, cost and complexity.44 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review simplify the operating model
Reducing cost and
increasing efficiency
In 2012 we continued to The transformation of our operating Core Business Services
model and processes has been a key
transform our operating
business strategy, enabling us to In early 2011, we created the Core Business
model to reduce costs and standardise and streamline important Services (CBS) group to centralise our
aspects of our business, including our support functions. This brought together
complexity, and improve
supply chain. functions such as facilities management,
efficiency. HR, IT, finance and procurement in one
We have been implementing a
centralised team, allowing us to streamline
restructuring programme to deliver
those elements and standardise processes.
significant savings to support investment
Our intention was to increase our
in our priority growth businesses as well
productivity and free up time in the
as offset pressures on the Group’s margin
businesses to focus on the execution of
resulting from changes in the shape and
business strategy in their local markets.
mix of our business.
In 2012 there has been steady progress on
Restructuring programme the implementation of the CBS platform.
A key element of the CBS strategy
A key objective of the Operational is the creation of a series of regional
Excellence restructuring programme that multifunctional business service centres
we began in 2007 was to release resources (BSCs) to improve service delivery. Three
to invest in our growth strategy. To of a planned six centres went online in
date, the restructuring programme has 2012 and the remainder are expected to
delivered approximately £2.5 billion be established in 2013. This will mean
of annual savings and remains on track we need fewer support staff globally
to deliver £2.8 billion of annual savings while providing more standard and
by 2014. cost effective processes to the Group.
A significant portion of the savings We have also been standardising our
generated has been reinvested into processes through the introduction of
business areas that offer potential an enterprise-wide resource planning
for future profitable growth, such (ERP) system. By the end of 2012, nine
as emerging markets, Vaccines and European pharmaceutical markets were
Consumer Healthcare. Similarly, some enrolled on the commercial ERP system,
of the savings in R&D costs have been equating to 43% of our turnover in
reinvested back into discovery and Europe. We anticipate adding further
development research. markets in 2013, covering most of the
The existing Operational Excellence European markets by the end of the year.
programme is coming to a close and We also introduced improved forecasting
will be superceded by a new major and planning processes to 40 Latin
change programme. This will focus American markets, with expected reduction
on opportunities to simplify our supply in supply chain operating costs, reduced
chain processes, as previously announced inventory levels and improved forecasting.
in 2012 and on building the Group’s The roll-out of the platform across the
capabilities in manufacturing and Group is being accelerated in 2013.
R&D, as well as restructuring our
European business. Supply chain and global
2012 also saw £165 million of manufacturing
restructuring charges relating to the
acquisition of Human Genome Sciences We have 87 sites in 34 countries
(HGS). Total restructuring charges related manufacturing our vaccines,
to HGS are expected to be approximately pharmaceuticals and consumer
£204 million, of which most is expected healthcare products. A large part of our
to be a cash cost. The majority of the network – 74 sites – is the responsibility
remaining HGS restructuring charges of Global Manufacturing and Supply
will be booked in 2013. (GMS) with more than 27,000 people
involved in the manufacture and supply
of our pharmaceutical and consumer
healthcare products. A further 13 sites
are operated by our Vaccines business.GSK Annual Report 2012 45
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Grow DeliverSimplify
A key focus within our manufacturing Case study
organisation has been supply chain
restructuring to create better end-to-end Squeezing production times
processes which reduce costs and are
more responsive to customer demand.
Our manufacturing network is a lynchpin in our ability to both make and
In 2012, our Consumer Healthcare
distribute products around the world. It also offers an important opportunity
business established a fully integrated
to make efficiencies, as work done at our toothpaste manufacturing plant in
supply chain, a first for GSK. Significantly Maidenhead in the UK last year has demonstrated.
greater operating flexibility is already
apparent and has allowed the business Through a step-by-step analysis of the process involved in changing from
to respond more effectively to some the manufacture of one product to another, our staff on the production
supply related challenges during the line identified changes that could cut the time taken to changeover by 60%,
year. We are now extending this approach saving 250 hours of production time per year. Shaving this time off freed-up
to our pharmaceuticals and vaccines production time, helping to provide manufacturing capacity to produce an
supply chains. additional 6.7 million tubes of toothpaste per year.
Our Inventory Reduction Programme, We’re now looking at ways that we can share this learning to create a
which is focused on the improvement of standard of performance excellence across all of our supply chains.
our manufacturing and supply processes,
helped to reduce our days inventory
outstanding by 9% (calculated on a
CER basis) over the course of the year.
Throughout 2011 and 2012 we have
also sought to reduce cost through
simplification of our product portfolio
by removing small volume, least
commercially important packs and
standardising pack presentation formats.
We have now set a revised target to
remove a further 25% of packs by 2016
and to achieve a 50% improvement in
standardisation in the same period.
Over the past five years, our
manufacturing organisation has
restructured and rationalised its network,
streamlined the operating model and
improved site performance to deliver
savings of approximately £930 million
per annum.
Environmental efficiencies
Environmental sustainability is a priority
for GSK. By reducing our footprint, using
resources more efficiently, and working
with others to tackle these challenges, we
can reduce costs, build competitiveness
and create trust in our business.
Despite reducing our carbon from energy
use by 15% since 2010, our total carbon
footprint (excluding that from raw
materials) has increased by 7% from
2010 driven by higher inhaler sales.
(More on page 54).
trakcorC
niaI46 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review simplify the operating model
Our financial architecture
Our financial architecture GSK’s financial architecture has We continue to balance cost savings with
established four key financial priorities continued investment in the business
is designed to support the
for GSK in delivering sustainable sales to support preparedness to launch our
execution of the Group’s growth, improving our operating R&D pipeline which will be a key driver
leverage, improving financial efficiency of future sales growth. With increasing
strategy, and to enhance
and converting more of our earnings into pipeline sales contribution from the end
the returns it delivers cash. By applying this framework we can of 2013, we remain confident that we can
drive better and more consistent decision drive improvement in the core operating
to shareholders.
making across the company and improve margin over the medium term.
delivery of our key financial objectives
of earnings per share growth and free Financial efficiency
cash flow generation, which can then
be returned to shareholders or reinvested Despite the pressure on the operating
in bolt on acquisitions, wherever the margin in 2012, financial efficiencies
most attractive returns are available. Our delivered significant value in 2012 and
decisions are rigorously benchmarked contributed positive leverage to the
using a CFROI returns based framework. Group’s reported earnings per share
for the year.
Sales growth
In 2011 we set out a target to reduce by
200 basis points our net funding costs
Although reported sales for the year
which were over 8% in 2010. We have
were down 1% for 2012, sales were flat
delivered this a year earlier than expected.
adjusting for the disposal of our non-
Our net funding costs for 2012 were
core Consumer Healthcare brands. This
around 6%, despite our net debt position
reflects continued strong performance
growing from £9 billion to £14 billion.
from our ‘growth’ businesses in the
This has enabled net interest payments
emerging markets helping to offset
for the year to remain broadly flat.
pressure in western markets, especially
weaker than expected performance in We also continue to develop our
Europe. As we move into 2013 we expect tax strategy and a number of moves
to deliver sales growth of around 1% CER. to update our structure and settle
outstanding claims have allowed us to
Operating leverage reduce our 2012 core tax rate to 24.4%,
a rate that delivered our target of 25%
In 2012 the core operating margin two years earlier than expected. We
declined by 0.6 percentage points to expect a core rate of 24% in 2013.
31.5%, of which 0.3 percentage points
was due to the expected impact of the We continue to focus on the alignment of
HGS acquisition. The remaining 0.3 our tax strategy with our future business
percentage points was due primarily to and have implemented a number of
the impact of maintaining flat SG&A measures to centralise our Pharmaceutical
on lower turnover, partially mitigated intellectual property and product
by lower R&D expenditure. We remain inventory ownership in the UK.
focused on managing our cost base more
Earnings per share
effectively. Our Operational Excellence
programme started in 2008 and has now
In 2012, the significant progress in
delivered annual savings of £2.5 billion.
improving our financial efficiency,
We have also launched a new change
together with our reinitiated share
programme to deliver further annual
buyback programme, enabled us to
savings of £1 billion by 2016.
maintain flat core EPS compared with
2011 (on a CER basis), despite the
decline in sales. In 2013, we expect to
deliver core EPS growth of 3-4% CER,
based on the IAS 19 (Revised) adjusted
EPS for 2012 of 111.4p.GSK Annual Report 2012 47
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Financial architecture to drive improved returns
Focus on returns
Sales growth
EPS
Operating leverage
Returns to
shareholders
Financial efficiency
Free cash
flow
Cash flow growth
Cash conversion Returns to shareholders Measurement and reporting
We see significant opportunity to Free cash flow is available to invest in We have improved our financial
enhance cash conversion through the business or to return to shareholders reporting to align it more closely with our
greater focus on cash generation and consistent with maintaining our targeted financial architecture. We are providing
capital allocation. A particular focus is credit profile. The priority is to cover the more data and insights into the progress
on our working capital and in 2012 we dividend but we intend free cash flow we are making in each of our businesses
made significant progress. We reduced above and beyond this requirement to and regions and on our progress
the working capital cash conversion be available for share buybacks or against the key drivers of operational
cycle from 202 to 194 days. We have bolt-on acquisitions, wherever the and financial efficiency. From 2012,
already made good progress on payables most attractive returns are available. we transitioned our reporting to a core
and receivables and are now focused The decision as to how to allocate such basis, enabling greater visibility of the
on addressing the Group’s inventory cash flow is rigorously benchmarked underlying performance of the business.
position in a sustainable and secure way. using a returns-based framework based
More details on the transition to core
We are developing an end-to-end supply on CFROI comparisons.
reporting are provided on page 56.
chain that joins our manufacturing and
In 2012 we returned £6.3 billion of cash
commercial businesses and increases
to shareholders. We paid £3.8 billion in
visibility to improve flexibility and
dividends, with our ordinary dividend
responsiveness, reducing the inventory
up 6% to 74p per share. In addition we
required and releasing cash we can
bought back £2.5 billion of shares as part
reinvest in the business.
of the long term programme we started
in 2011.
In 2013 we expect to deliver continued
dividend growth and we are targeting
share repurchases of £1–2 billion.48 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review simplify the operating model
Identifying and managing risk
We manage risk to our Our risk management processes
business by embedding
clear processess to do Board of The Board is responsible for our system
Directors of corporate governance, strategy, risk
this in our management management and financial performance.
practices.
AAuuddiitt && RRiisskk CCoommmmiitttteeee TThhee BBooaarrdd hhaass ddeelleeggaatteedd rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy
for reviewing and approving the
adequacy and effectiveness of internal
controls operated by the Group to the
Audit & Risk Committee.
Corporate Executive The CET supports the CEO in the
Team management of GSK’s business and
activities.
RRiisskk OOvveerrssiigghhtt aanndd TThhee CCoouunncciill ooff sseenniioorr eexxeeccuuttiivveess iiss
Compliance Council authorised by the Board to assist the ARC
in overseeing the risk management and
internal control activities of the Group.
The ROCC meets regularly to review
and assess significant risks and their
mitigation plans and to provide oversight
of internal controls to ensure compliance
with applicable laws, regulations and our
internal policies.
Business units Leadership teams
RRiisskk MMaannaaggeemmeenntt aanndd TThhee RRMMCCBBss oovveerrsseeee mmaannaaggeemmeenntt ooff aallll
Compliance Boards risks that are considered important for
their respective business units, including
those risks that are designated as
significant to GSK as a whole.
gnitroper
dna
gnirotinom
hguorht
ytilibatnuoccA
ytirohtua
fo
noitageleD
We have a clear framework for (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:10)(cid:156)(cid:147)(cid:171)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:220)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:133)(cid:202)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:219)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:202)(cid:143)(cid:62)(cid:220)(cid:195)(cid:202)
identifying and managing risk, and regulations
both at an operational and strategic
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:10)(cid:133)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:125)(cid:143)(cid:156)(cid:76)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:156)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:86)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:105)(cid:86)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:156)(cid:147)(cid:136)(cid:86)(cid:202)
level. Our risk identification and
conditions
mitigation processes have been
designed to be responsive to the (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:31)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:62)(cid:125)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:86)(cid:181)(cid:213)(cid:136)(cid:195)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:195)
constantly changing environment. (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:10)(cid:156)(cid:147)(cid:171)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:220)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:133)(cid:202)(cid:119)(cid:152)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:136)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:202)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:171)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)
The Group’s key risks are categorised and disclosure requirements
as follows and full descriptions and (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:10)(cid:156)(cid:147)(cid:171)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:220)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:133)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:62)(cid:221)(cid:202)(cid:143)(cid:62)(cid:220)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:147)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:62)(cid:125)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)
specific mitigating activities are set out treasury investments
on pages 78 to 86.
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:10)(cid:156)(cid:147)(cid:171)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:220)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:133)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:135)(cid:76)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:76)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:222)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:96)(cid:202)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:12)(cid:202) (cid:105)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:219)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:86)(cid:156)(cid:147)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:86)(cid:136)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:143)(cid:222)(cid:202)(cid:195)(cid:213)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:195)(cid:118)(cid:213)(cid:143)(cid:202) corruption legislation
new products
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:42)(cid:156)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:202)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:125)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:156)(cid:152)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:42)(cid:202)(cid:192)(cid:156)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:86)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:143)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:86)(cid:204)(cid:213)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:192)(cid:156)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:204)(cid:222)(cid:202)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:125)(cid:133)(cid:204)(cid:195)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:31)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:62)(cid:125)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:219)(cid:136)(cid:192)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:93)(cid:202)(cid:133)(cid:105)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:204)(cid:133)(cid:93)(cid:202)(cid:195)(cid:62)(cid:118)(cid:105)(cid:204)(cid:222)(cid:202)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:13)(cid:202)(cid:152)(cid:195)(cid:213)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:192)(cid:156)(cid:96)(cid:213)(cid:86)(cid:204)(cid:202)(cid:181)(cid:213)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:222) and sustainability compliance
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:31)(cid:202) (cid:62)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:62)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:192)(cid:156)(cid:96)(cid:213)(cid:86)(cid:204)(cid:202)(cid:195)(cid:213)(cid:171)(cid:171)(cid:143)(cid:222) (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:10)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:118)(cid:202)(cid:195)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:156)(cid:202)(cid:220)(cid:133)(cid:156)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:195)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:45)(cid:202)(cid:105)(cid:86)(cid:213)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:96)(cid:105)(cid:181)(cid:213)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:86)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:96)(cid:202) (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:42)(cid:192)(cid:156)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:86)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:213)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:147)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:156)(cid:152)
reimbursementGSK Annual Report 2012 49
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
& risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Responsible business
In 2012, we made Our commercial success is directly Using innovative science
linked to operating in a trustworthy and to create value
substantive moves to
responsible way. We report our approach
increase access and and the progress we are making across The biggest contribution we can make
four areas: to improving health is through scientific
transparency. innovation. In 2012 we announced
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Health for all – Innovating to address further initiatives in open innovation,
currently unmet health needs; where we seek to share intellectual
improving access to our products, property and knowledge with external
irrespective of where people live or researchers to help stimulate R&D into
their ability to pay; controlling or areas where traditional commercial
eliminating diseases affecting the approaches have met difficulties.
worlds’ most vulnerable people. These include:
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Our behaviour – Putting the interests (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:45)(cid:213)(cid:76)(cid:147)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:213)(cid:76)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:86)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:202)(cid:211)(cid:228)(cid:228)(cid:202)
of patients and consumers first, driven promising inhibitors for tuberculosis
by our values in everything we do and (TB) from our library of compounds to
backed by robust policies and strong help stimulate research. TB still kills
compliance processes. 1.5 million people each year.
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Our people – Enabling our people to (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:1)(cid:220)(cid:62)(cid:192)(cid:96)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:213)(cid:192)(cid:204)(cid:133)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:203)(cid:120)(cid:202)(cid:147)(cid:136)(cid:143)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:156)(cid:202)(cid:204)(cid:133)(cid:105)(cid:202)
1st thrive and develop as individuals to Tres Cantos ‘Open Lab’ Foundation to
deliver our mission. help independent researchers advance
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)Our planet – Growing our business their own projects. There are now 16
while reducing our environmental research projects in the portfolio
in ATM index impact across our value chain. (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:27)(cid:156)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:125)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:202)(cid:32)(cid:105)(cid:220)(cid:12)(cid:192)(cid:213)(cid:125)(cid:195)(cid:123)(cid:9)(cid:62)(cid:96)(cid:9)(cid:213)(cid:125)(cid:195)(cid:202)
Highlights about our approach and – an innovative public-private
For the third consecutive report, GSK examples of progress in these four areas collaboration launched to tackle
scored highest in the bi-annual Access to follow. Additional information on our antibiotic resistance. Supported by
Medicines (ATM) Index, released in 2012. approach and performance is published the European Innovative Medicines
The index, prepared by the Access to in our Corporate Responsibility Report, Initiative (IMI), the project will be
Medicines Foundation, provides a ranking which can be found on our website. funded by a joint budget of £180m.
of pharmaceutical companies’ access to
Improving access to our
medicine activities, measuring seven technical Health for all
products and to healthcare
aspects such as R&D activities, pricing
schemes and patents & licensing policies. We are working to make our medicines Access to medicines and healthcare is a
and healthcare products available and priority for us, and we recognise that there
affordable to as many people who need can be challenges to providing sustainable
them as possible. We aim to do this while access to healthcare across the world.
also generating the returns we need to
Cost can be a barrier to people in both
sustain our business and invest in R&D.
developed and developing countries.
We continue to evolve our business Having a flexible approach to pricing is
model to address the increasing need for one way to create access and build our
new and existing treatments. The way we business by increasing the overall volume
price our products is more flexible and of products we sell. We offer tiered pricing
more reflective of different healthcare for our vaccines and medicines, capped
needs in developed and developing prices in the UN’s Least Developed
countries and we have changed the way Countries (LDCs) and preferential pricing
we conduct R&D to be more open than by ViiV Healthcare of our anti-retrovirals
ten years ago. for HIV/AIDS in LDCs, sub-Saharan Africa
and all low-income countries.
See our Corporate responsibility report.50 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review simplify the operating model
Responsible business continued
Through our Developing Countries
Case study
and Market Access (DCMA) unit
Giving children a better start we have created a business group
dedicated to increasing patient access
to GSK medicines in the world’s poorest
Soil-transmitted helminths – commonly known as intestinal worms – affect
countries. In these countries we invest
more than two billion people worldwide and are one of the biggest causes of
20% of the profits made there back into
ill health in school-age children. The World Health Organization estimates that
community programmes to strengthen
890 million children are at risk of infection. Infection with worms can cause
local healthcare infrastructure. This
stomach pain, sickness and malnutrition, as well as stunting physical growth
investment – in resources like clinics,
and long-term brain development.
hospitals, doctors, nurses, and training
Through our membership of a global coalition of pharmaceutical companies programmes – increases the number
and non-government organisations – including the Bill & Melinda Gates of people who can get much-needed
Foundation and the World Bank – as well as governments and global health healthcare and medicines. By October
organisations, we committed to work together to control or eliminate ten of 2012, we had a programme in place in
the 17 neglected tropical diseases by 2020. all 34 of the LDCs where our business
had made a profit.
Our contribution includes donating our anti-parasitic treatment, albendazole
to help fight intestinal worms in school-age children. Healthier children are The 20% reinvestment programme is
more likely to attend school and get a better education – giving them a better delivered through our partnership with
chance of getting good jobs and becoming productive members of society. three non-governmental organisations
(NGOs) with regional expertise. We work
In 2012, the first year of this donation programme, we provided albendazole
with Save the Children in West Africa,
treatment for over 120 million school age children – including these children
AMREF in East and Southern Africa, and
in Ghana (pictured).
CARE International in Asia.
Increasing people’s access to medicines
is also about the availability of the
medicines or products in a country. To
address this, we are increasing registration
of new and existing products across
markets and using local manufacturing
options whenever possible to make sure
people in a range of countries can get the
medicines they need.
Targeting neglected
tropical diseases
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs)
threaten more than one billion people in
developing countries. In 2012, GSK united
with other private and public partners to
create the London Declaration Initiative
to control or eliminate ten of the 17
neglected tropical diseases by the end of
the decade. Our initial focus is extending
access to medicines for five diseases
where treatments already exist, including
lymphatic filariasis and intestinal worms.
In 2012, we donated our three billionth
albendazole tablet in the fight against this
disfiguring disease.
snikreP
sucraMGSK Annual Report 2012 51
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Malaria is responsible for more than In 2012 GSK donated medicines valued at Our employee survey results from 2012
655,000 deaths a year, mainly among £131 million (at cost) and £54 million in reflect our efforts to integrate a values-
children in sub-Saharan Africa. Our cash. Product donations of £3.3 million based culture at GSK. More than 90% of
holistic approach to malaria control were distributed to 86 countries for respondents stated they understand what
includes vaccine development, promoting humanitarian aid. Supplies of antibiotics, constitutes ethical business practices
preventive measures such as bed nets basic medicines and oral hygiene items and conduct in their job, and more than
and mosquito control, and preferential were distributed to those affected by 80% agreed that their work environment
pricing for anti-malarials in LDCs. In conflicts, a cholera epidemic in Niger, encourages ethical behaviour in the face
2012 we published late-stage clinical trial floods in the Philippines and hurricanes of pressures to meet business objectives.
results showing that our RTS,S vaccine Isaac and Sandy in the USA.
All GSK employees have access to
candidate can help protect African
We continue to invest in a programme whistleblowing mechanisms that
children against malaria.
to prevent diarrhoea and pneumonia they can use to get advice, and to
Supporting health and well-being by teaching children the importance of report suspected cases of misconduct
in our communities hand washing. The programme has been – anonymously if required. Our global
running for 15 years, and has reached confidential reporting line is available
We fund and support local programmes
1.5 million children in 16 countries. In in 70 different languages.
that make a significant contribution
2012, we began integrating oral health
to the health and well-being of We continue to support the Guiding education and school de-worming into
communities. Our contributions support Principles on Business and Human
the programme.
disaster relief, medicine donations, Rights endorsed by the United Nations
engagement programmes to change Our behaviour Human Rights Council in 2011. Our aim
behaviour and improve health and is to apply the guiding principles across
science education to help develop our How we deliver success is just as our own operations and our supplier
health professionals, scientists and important to us as what we achieve. relationships.
engineers of the future. We will put the interests of patients
Sales and marketing
and consumers first and be driven by
our values of: We launched a new Global Code of
Practices for Promotion and Customer
Our giving in 2012
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:47)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:195)(cid:171)(cid:62)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:222) Interactions last year. The code covers
41 (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:44)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:86)(cid:204)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:156)(cid:171)(cid:143)(cid:105) payments to health care professionals,
3
samples, hospitality, grants and
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:22)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:125)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:222) donations. Activities must conform
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:42)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:135)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:86)(cid:213)(cid:195)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:176) to our ethical, medical and scientific
standards and all applicable laws,
Ethical conduct regulations and industry codes.
2 All sales and marketing employees Ethical conduct is a priority for GSK.
£m Failure to uphold high ethical standards are being trained on the revised code.
1 Product and in-kind 131 can erode trust in our company and In 2012 we entered into a settlement
2 Cash 54 our products, damage our reputation, with the US federal government related
3 Management 19 and result in serious financial or legal to past sales and marketing practices.
4 Time 3
consequences. While the actions triggering these
In 2012 we revised and simplified our issues originated in a different era for
Cash giving by type of programme Code of Conduct to make it very clear our company, they cannot and will not
supported in 2012 be ignored. In the USA, we have taken
to employees how to apply GSK Values
1 and Behaviours. The code is available in action at all levels and improved our
28 languages and supported by a new procedures for compliance, marketing
3 and selling. As part of the settlement
Policy Resource Centre on the company’s
intranet that provides information, we entered into a Corporate Integrity
support and training. Agreement with the US Department of
Health and Human Services, under which
Our Annual Business Ethics Certifications we are building improvements into our
2 for managers is being revised and will existing compliance programmes.
% be re-launched in 2013. Over 33,000
1 Health 56 managers will be asked to undertake this
2 Education 28 training, confirming their compliance
3 Other 16 with the code of conduct.52 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review simplify the operating model
Responsible business continued
Working with healthcare Manufacturing and supply Performance-based pay, bonuses and
professionals Suppliers to GSK are required to adhere share-based equity plans align employee
interests with business targets.
Healthcare professionals (HCPs) are to our Third Party Code of Conduct
valuable partners for GSK, providing us and must demonstrate ethical standards We have invested significantly in the
with scientific and medical expertise and within their business and their own development of our leadership through
insights into patient care. Our work with supply chains. In 2012 we carried out interventions at every stage of the
HCPs can include conducting research on in-depth environment, health and safety pipeline from our most senior executives
our behalf or acting in an advisory and audits of critical suppliers to improve to first line leaders.
consulting capacity such as providing sustainability in the supply chain and
Our early career development programmes
expertise at GSK advisory boards or strengthen supplier relationships. We also
include graduate schemes, internships,
speaking on our behalf about diseases or conducted assessments to understand
industrial placements, apprenticeships and
therapy areas relevant to us. We believe geographical risks and plan for any
ESPRIT, our global MBA programme. In
HCPs should be fairly compensated potential interruptions to supply. Supply
2012 we employed 52 apprentices and
and we have clear standards, aligned continuity was assessed for 20 key
recruited 317 graduates.
with industry codes of practice and suppliers in 2012 and another 20 are
appropriate laws and regulations, scheduled for 2013. A diverse workforce
which govern these payments. We have
We continue to address the problem We focus on creating an inclusive,
committed to publishing the payments
of counterfeit medicines. In China, we engaging environment that empowers
we make to HCPs and were one of the
added serial numbers to 31 products, employees to continually contribute
first companies to start to do this in the
resulting in a significant reduction in to the organisation that enables us to
USA, commencing in 2009.
the number of reports of counterfeit achieve our strategic business objectives.
Transparency of research medicines. This ‘track and trace’ An inclusive environment is good for
technology will help us implement business as it brings together different
We are committed to reporting the results
similar initiatives elsewhere in the world. knowledge, perspectives, experiences
of our clinical research, irrespective of
and working styles that enhance
whether the outcomes are perceived to Our people
creativity and innovation.
be positive or negative for our medicines.
To further increase this transparency, GSK wants to be an employer of choice. We aim to attract a diverse workforce
we announced plans in 2012 to enable Our ability to attract, retain and motivate that reflects the communities in which
researchers to access anonymised patient- the best people is essential to achieving we operate.
level data from published clinical trials our objectives and executing our strategy.
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:47)(cid:133)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:62)(cid:125)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:118)(cid:202)(cid:220)(cid:156)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:152)(cid:202)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:202)(cid:133)(cid:136)(cid:125)(cid:133)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:135)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:219)(cid:105)(cid:143)(cid:202)
of our medicines. Requests for data will Our employment practices are designed to
positions grew in 2012, reflecting our
be reviewed by an independent panel of help us create the right workplace culture
goal to increase the proportion at the
experts to evaluate the scientific merit in which all employees feel valued,
most senior levels.
of each proposal. We already publish respected, empowered and inspired.
summary results of every research trial on (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:47)(cid:133)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:152)(cid:213)(cid:147)(cid:76)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:118)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:156)(cid:171)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:220)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:105)(cid:147)(cid:171)(cid:143)(cid:156)(cid:222)(cid:202)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:202)
the GSK Clinical Study Register, and in Recruiting, developing and our Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and
early 2013 we outlined our plans to add rewarding our people Japan regions represent 42% of our
Clinical Study Reports onto the Register GSK is committed to supporting total workforce.
in the future (see page 36). employees to perform to their best and
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:13)(cid:204)(cid:133)(cid:152)(cid:136)(cid:86)(cid:202)(cid:147)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:136)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:86)(cid:86)(cid:156)(cid:213)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:211)(cid:228)(cid:175)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:118)(cid:202)
We conduct regular clinical-quality we ensure that appropriate programmes UK and 22.1% of US employees in 2012.
assurance assessments to confirm that the and mechanisms are in place to deliver
conduct of trials upholds our standards. overall performance. Individuals meet
Women in management positions (%)
In 2012 we conducted 293 assessments, 90% of their development needs
including review of investigator sites, through challenging on-the-job projects, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
GSK local operating companies and mentoring and coaching, with 10% SVP, VP 27 26 25 25 25
clinical research organisations carrying derived from formal development such as Director 39 38 37 36 36
Manager 43 42 42 42 41
out clinical trials on our behalf. GSK fully training programmes.
Total 40 39 38 38 38
investigates any concerns identified, and Our performance and development
performed 47 investigations in 2012 in planning process means employees Ethnic minorities – UK and USA employees (%)
response to suspected irregularities, taking have business-aligned objectives and 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
corrective action where appropriate. behavioural goals. Reward systems UK 20.0 19.6 19.4 19.4 19.2
promote high performance and help USA 22.1 21.9 20.4 20.4 20.5
to attract and retain the best people.GSK Annual Report 2012 53
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Case study
Fair play in sport
We were proud to play an
important role in the London 2012
Olympic and Paralympic Games
as the Official Laboratory Services
Provider – using our scientific
expertise and facilities to support
the integrity of the Games and the
health of competing athletes.
Working with King’s College
London, we provided the facilities
and equipment that allowed the
expert analysts from King’s to
independently operate a World
Anti-Doping Agency (WADA)
accredited laboratory.
More than 6,000 anti-doping tests
were carried out, which was more
than at any other Games. By the
end of the Olympics, every medalist
who stepped on the podium and
up to half of all competing athletes
had been tested.
Being a science-led organisation,
we were well placed to provide
the testing facilities, offering one
of our research and development
sites located about 45 minutes
north of the Olympic Park. This
was the first time a pharmaceutical
company had been involved in the
provision of anti-doping services for
an Olympic or Paralympic Games.54 GSK Annual Report 2012
Strategic review simplify the operating model
Responsible business continued
We are committed to employment A healthy high-performing Water
policies free from discrimination and to workforce with zero harm Our goal is to reduce our water impact
an environment that does not tolerate
To improve the quality of life of across the value chain by 20% relative
harassment or discrimination of: actual or
our employees and their families, to 2010. In 2012 we reduced water
perceived race, colour, ethnic or national
in 2012 we piloted a groundbreaking consumption in our operations by 14%
origin, age, gender, sexual orientation,
Preventative Health programme, to be (compared to 2010). We recognise that
gender identity and/or expression, religion
phased in globally across GSK over the water is an important natural resource
or belief, physical ability/disability and/
next five years. This partnership with and that we can play a positive role in
or chronic health conditions, genetic
our employees and their families is managing our use of it more sustainably.
make-up or other protected characteristics
designed to reduce personal health We have begun to develop longer-term
as relevant in a country.
risks through access to a set of core strategies with input from several
Engaging our employees preventive health services. international organisations. We have
also signed the UN CEO Water Mandate,
In 2012 we maintained a rate of 85% of We continue to aim for zero harm to our an initiative designed to help companies
employees saying they are proud to work employees and we continue to develop develop, implement and disclose
for GSK based on a 72% participation rate risk reduction programmes, including sustainable water practices.
in our global employee survey. upgrades to guard equipment on
machinery, and dust-reduction activities Waste
Our volunteering programmes continue
in our manufacturing sites in 2012.
to provide employees with a strong Our goal is for zero waste to be sent to
sense of purpose. PULSE gives employees Our employee injury and illness rate landfill by 2020 from our operations.
the chance to join a charity or non reduced by 10%. In 2012 we reduced waste generation in
governmental organisation (NGO) for our operations by 9% and reduced the
three or six month, full-time placements. Our planet waste sent to landfill by 41% (compared
The GSK Orange Day allows all to 2010). We established an inhaler
employees to commit a day of their time Environmental sustainability is a priority collection service (Complete the Cycle) in
to a local charity either individually or as for GSK. Our focus is to reduce carbon, the UK that has collected over 90,000
part of a team. water and waste. We have set ambitious inhalers to date. We have recently
targets in these areas and we are working expanded a pilot inhaler collection
As a corporate partner for the London to create change, from our use of raw service in the USA from five to 31 cities.
2012 Olympic Games, all our allocated materials, to the use and disposal of our
tickets went to our employees. We ran a products by consumers. Managing other impacts
global ‘Golden Ticket’ competition
Alongside our priority issues of carbon,
asking employees to nominate colleagues Carbon
water and waste, we also manage a range
who demonstrated actions in their daily Our goal is to reduce our value chain of other important environmental issues.
lives or work showing the Olympic carbon footprint by 10% in 2015 and One is ‘green chemistry’ which aims to
values of friendship, equality, integrity by 25% by 2020. Our carbon footprint replace the use of hazardous chemicals
and excellence. excluding the contribution from raw and processes with those that have a
materials (which we cannot currently lower environmental impact. In 2012 we
Managing change
measure on an annual basis) has created a Green Chemistry Performance
We are very conscious of the effect increased by 7% compared to 2010, Unit to put green chemistry theories
restructuring has on employees. We aim however we remain confident on into practice. The unit has published 12
to achieve organisational and financial hitting our 2015 target. internal guides that help employees make
goals without eliminating positions and
better chemical choices when designing
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:55)(cid:202) (cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:133)(cid:62)(cid:219)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:213)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:213)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:86)(cid:62)(cid:192)(cid:76)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:202)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:156)(cid:204)(cid:171)(cid:192)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:204)(cid:202)
to redeploy employees where possible.
or developing new products.
from energy for operations by 15%.
We remain committed to consulting on
changes via a number of consultation (cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:22)(cid:202)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:62)(cid:195)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:195)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:118)(cid:202)(cid:147)(cid:105)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:96)(cid:156)(cid:195)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:136)(cid:152)(cid:133)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:195)(cid:202)
forums, as well as discussions with the have resulted in a 12% rise in greenhouse
European Works Council and similar gas emissions from inhaler use.
bodies in countries where this is national
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:202)(cid:19)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:156)(cid:213)(cid:192)(cid:202)(cid:211)(cid:228)(cid:163)(cid:163)(cid:202)(cid:171)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:118)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:147)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:93)(cid:202)(cid:220)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:86)(cid:133)(cid:136)(cid:105)(cid:219)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:202)
practice. If jobs are lost through business
global certification to the Carbon
change, we offer compensation and other
Trust Standard, which certifies that
support such as outplacement in line
we are making year-on-year overall
with local requirements and employment
reductions in emissions associated with
legislation. We also offer employees
operations and transport. GSK is the
support through resilience training and
only multinational to have achieved
an Employee Assistance Programme.
this standard to date.2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2012 55
Financial
Financial review 56
Financial position and resources 66
Financial review 2011 72
review & risk Risk factors 78
Respiratory growth in Japan
Our respiratory portfolio continues
to be a key aspect of our business
with a promising pipeline of products.
In Japan, our respiratory portfolio grew
6% in 2012, boosted by the strong
contributions of several recently
launched products (see page 25).56 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Group performance White pills in Western markets
White pills in Western markets refers to sales of tablets and simple
Our financial review discusses the operating and financial
injectables (excluding biopharmaceuticals and vaccines) in North
performance of the Group, the financial outlook and our financial
America and Europe.
resources. We compare the results for each year primarily with
results of the preceding year and on a CER basis. In this review
CER growth
we discuss the results on both a core basis and a total basis.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is our practice
All growth rates included in this Report are at constant exchange
to discuss the results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER)
rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. CER growth is discussed below.
growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates
We use a number of adjusted measures to report the performance used to determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had
of our business. These measures are used by management for remained unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER%
planning and reporting purposes and in discussions with and represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents
presentations to investment analysts and rating agencies and are growth at actual exchange rates.
defined below. These measures are not defined in IFRS and may
Restatement of comparative information
not be comparable with similarly described measures used by
other companies. As set out in Note 6 to the Financial statements, ‘Segment
information’ the segments for which turnover and operating profit
Core results reporting
are disclosed have been amended to reflect changes in the Group’s
Core results exclude the following items from total results: internal management structure together with certain changes to
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (excluding the therapeutic classifications of turnover by product. In addition,
computer software) and goodwill; major restructuring costs, charges for amortisation and impairment of intangible assets related
including those costs following material acquisitions; legal charges to marketed products are now reported in cost of sales rather than
(net of insurance recoveries) on the settlement of litigation and in SG&A. Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
government investigations; other operating income other than The adjustment for 2011 increases cost of sales and decreases
royalty income; disposals of associates, products and businesses, SG&A by £316 million from the amounts previously reported.
and acquisition accounting adjustments for material acquisitions,
together with the tax effects of these items. Financial review 2012
Major restructuring costs charged in arriving at operating profit
Group turnover by business
include costs arising under the Operational Excellence restructuring
programme, initiated in 2007 and expanded in 2009, 2010 and 2011
2011, and restructuring costs following the acquisitions of Human 2012 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Genome Sciences, Inc. in August 2012 and Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
Pharmaceuticals 17,996 18,615 (2) (3)
in July 2009.
Vaccines 3,325 3,497 (2) (5)
Reconciliations of core results to total results are presented on Pharmaceuticals
page 62.
and Vaccines 21,321 22,112 (2) (4)
Core results reporting aligns business performance reporting around Consumer Healthcare 5,110 5,275 – (3)
the underlying trading performance of the Group and its primary 26,431 27,387 (1) (3)
growth drivers by removing the volatilty inherent in many of the
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents
non-core items. Core results reporting is utilised as the basis for
growth at actual exchange rates.
internal performance reporting and the core results are presented
and discussed in this Financial review as management believes that Total Group turnover for 2012 was broadly in line with last year
this approach provides investors with a clearer view of the (down 1% to £26,431 million), with a 2% decline in Pharmaceuticals
underlying trading performance of the Group. Management also and Vaccines turnover partly offset by flat reported turnover in
believes that this approach should make the Group’s results more Consumer Healthcare. Pharmaceuticals turnover was down 2%,
comparable with the majority of its peers, many of which use similar primarily as a result of the increased pressure from austerity measures
forms of underlying performance reporting to discuss their results, in Europe. Vaccines turnover declined 2%, reflecting the impact
although the precise calculations may differ. The Financial review of lower sales of Cervarix in Japan (2012 – £132 million;
also presents and discusses the total results of the Group. 2011 – £344 million) following the completion of the 2011 HPV
vaccination catch-up programme. Excluding Cervarix, Vaccines
Free cash flow turnover increased 4%. Reported Consumer Healthcare turnover
was flat at £5,110 million, but excluding the non-core OTC brands
Free cash flow is the net cash inflow from operating activities less
divested in early 2012, Consumer Healthcare turnover grew 5%.
capital expenditure, interest and dividends paid to non-controlling
interests plus proceeds from the sale of property, plant and Group turnover by geographic region
equipment and dividends received from joint ventures and
associated undertakings. Free cash flow growth is calculated 2011
on a sterling basis. A reconciliation is presented on page 69. 2012 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
USA 8,446 8,684 (4) (3)
Working capital conversion cycle
Europe 7,320 8,271 (7) (11)
The working capital conversion cycle is calculated as the number EMAP 6,780 6,403 10 6
of days sales outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, less
Japan 2,225 2,318 (5) (4)
days purchases outstanding.
Other 1,660 1,711 (3) (3)
26,431 27,387 (1) (3)
Group sales outside the USA and Europe accounted for 40% of total
turnover and reported growth of 5%.GSK Annual Report 2012 57
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Group turnover by segment ViiV Healthcare turnover declined by 10% primarily reflecting
generic competition in the USA to Combivir and Epivir offsetting
2011
growth generated by Epzicom and Selzentry.
2012 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Consumer Healthcare turnover, excluding the sales of the non-core
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines: OTC brands that were divested in early 2012, increased 5% with
USA 7,000 7,022 (2) – relatively consistent performance over the quarters. This reflected
Europe 5,001 5,700 (7) (12) continued growth in Oral care, Nutrition and Wellness, partly offset
EMAP 4,736 4,459 10 6 by a small decline in Skin health. On a regional basis, US sales grew
Japan 1,969 2,082 (6) (5) 2% and Europe sales were flat, both impacted by continuing
ViiV Healthcare 1,374 1,569 (10) (12) economic pressures and the drag from alli. The Rest of World
markets, particularly India, the Middle East and China, continued to
Other trading and
make a strong contribution and grew 12%. Reported turnover for
unallocated 1,241 1,280 (3) (3)
Consumer Healthcare was flat at £5,110 million.
Pharmaceuticals
and Vaccines 21,321 22,112 (2) (4) Pharmaceuticals turnover
Consumer Healthcare 5,110 5,275 – (3)
2011
26,431 27,387 (1) (3)
2012 (restated) Growth Growth
US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover declined 2%. Excluding £m £m CER% £%
Respiratory 7,291 7,298 1 –
the impact of Avandia, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines sales were flat.
Pharmaceuticals turnover fell 2%, as sales declines for Avandia as Anti-virals 753 842 (11) (11)
well as a number of older products including Arixtra and Valtrex, Central nervous system 1,670 1,721 (2) (3)
were partly offset by an encouraging performance from new Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,431 2,454 – (1)
products, particularly in Oncology which grew 18%, a £65 million Metabolic 171 331 (47) (48)
sales contribution from Benlysta and improved Respiratory sales, Anti-bacterials 1,247 1,390 (7) (10)
which grew 1%. Turnover also benefited from the net effect of Oncology and emesis 798 683 19 17
the incremental revenue from the conclusion of the Vesicare Dermatology 850 898 (2) (5)
co-promotion agreement in the first quarter of 2012. Vaccines
Rare diseases 495 463 8 7
sales were flat as the growth in sales of Infanrix/Pediarix and
Immuno-inflammation 70 15 >100 >100
Boostrix was offset by lower flu vaccines sales and adverse
Other pharmaceuticals 846 951 (6) (11)
comparisons for Hepatitis vaccines and Rotarix, which benefited
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,374 1,569 (10) (12)
from significant stockpile purchases by the US Centers for Disease
Control (CDC) in 2011. 17,996 18,615 (2) (3)
Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover declined 7%, Respiratory
primarily driven by the impact of various ongoing government
Respiratory sales increased 1%, with growth in the USA, EMAP and
austerity measures including price cuts, parallel trade and generic
Japan offset by a decline in Europe. Total sales of Seretide/Advair
substitution. This decline resulted from adverse pricing effects of 6%
grew 1% to £5,046 million, Ventolin sales increased 6% to
and a 1% volume decline. Pharmaceuticals sales declined 8% and
£631 million while Flixotide/Flovent sales fell 4% to £779 million.
Vaccines sales declined 4%. Despite a slight reduction in the rate of
Xyzal sales, almost exclusively made in Japan, doubled to
decline in the fourth quarter, the underlying economic environment
£129 million.
continued to be challenging.
In the USA, sales of Advair were £2,533 million, up 1% compared
EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover increased 10% as
with 2% estimated underlying growth for the year (5% volume
strong growth in Latin America (up 11% to £1,257 million), China
decline more than offset by a 7% positive impact of price and mix).
(up 17% to £759 million) and India (up 10% to £304 million) was
Flovent sales declined 1% to £448 million, compared with estimated
partly offset by the effect of mandatory price reductions in a
underlying growth of 3% (4% volume increase partly offset by a
number of markets, including Turkey and Korea. Pharmaceuticals
1% negative impact of price and mix). Ventolin grew 14% to
turnover increased 8%, with improved momentum after a slow first
£277 million, while estimated underlying growth was 11%,
quarter, as strong growth in Respiratory combined with good
driven mostly by volume.
performances in a number of established brands and the newer
Oncology portfolio. The Vaccines business recorded a strong European Respiratory sales were down 5% reflecting the impact
performance but with expected uneven delivery across the quarters, of ongoing austerity measures. Seretide sales were down 4% to
reflecting the phasing of tender sales and a particular concentration £1,447 million, as price cuts more than offset volume growth of
towards the end of the year. approximately 2%.
Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover fell 6% reflecting In EMAP, Respiratory sales grew 13%, with growth across most
an adverse comparison with strong Cervarix sales in 2011 despite products in the portfolio. Seretide grew 12% to £417 million with
a material contribution from the third phase of the programme strong growth in China and Latin America offsetting the impact of
benefiting the first quarter of 2012. The catch-up programme is now some price reductions, principally in Turkey. Ventolin sales increased
complete. Excluding Cervarix, Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 10% to £171 million.
turnover increased 5%. Pharmaceuticals turnover grew 3% with
strong growth from the recently launched products, Lamictal, Anti-virals
Avodart and Volibris, partly offset by the impact of the mandatory
The 11% decline in Anti-virals sales largely resulted from generic
biennial price cuts, which impacted growth by approximately four
competition to Valtrex, which was down 25% to £252 million.
percentage points, and increasing generic competition to Paxil. The
Respiratory portfolio grew 6%, driven by a strong performance from
Xyzal, offsetting declines in Flixonase and Zyrtec. Adoair (Seretide)
grew 6% to £309 million. In Vaccines, Rotarix, which launched in
the fourth quarter of 2011, contributed sales of £44 million.58 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Central nervous system (CNS) Dermatology
Declines in Seroxat/Paxil sales of 14% to £374 million and Requip Sales declined 2% to £850 million, primarily as a result of the decline
sales of 22% to £164 million, primarily as a result of generic in the USA (down 14% to £228 million) which suffered from the
competition, were only partially offset by the 14% growth of impact of generic competition to Evoclin, Extina and Duac. European
Lamictal to £610 million. sales (up 5% to £156 million) benefited from the acquisition of
Toctino in the second half of the year. EMAP sales grew 7% to
In the USA, the Lamictal franchise increased 18% to £332 million
£388 million, reflecting strong growth in the promoted brands of
as strong growth of Lamictal XR, approximately 45% of the US
Dermovate and Bactroban.
franchise, more than offset the impact of generic competition to the
immediate release (twice a day) formulation. Generic competition to Rare diseases
Lamictal XR began during the first quarter of 2013. In Japan, sales of
Lamictal IR grew 88% to £78 million, in part due to sales for the Volibris grew 35% to £127 million, led by a strong performance in
recently launched bipolar indication. Japan. Mepron sales increased 26% to £93 million primarily as a
result of a favourable adjustment to US accruals for returns and
Cardiovascular and urogenital rebates recorded in the fourth quarter. Flolan sales fell 25% to
£135 million, largely as a result of the biennial price reduction in
Sales in the category were flat as the net benefit of the conclusion
Japan and generic competition in Europe.
of the Vesicare co-promotion agreement combined with growth in
sales of Avodart and Lovaza were offset by the impact of generic Immuno-inflammation
competition to Arixtra and Coreg.
In August 2012, we acquired Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (‘HGS’)
The Avodart franchise grew 7% to £790 million with growth driven
and from that time recorded all sales of Benlysta. Prior to acquisition,
by strong contributions from the recent launches of the combination
in the USA we recorded as turnover our share of gross profit under
product Duodart/Jalyn in Europe and of Avodart in Japan. In the
the co-promotion agreement with HGS. Reported Benlysta turnover
USA, the decline in Avodart sales, in part due to the impact of
was £70 million, of which £65 million arose in the USA. Total
labelling changes implemented in 2011 and the availability of a
in-market sales of Benlysta in the USA for the year were £96 million.
generic competitor in the same class, was partially offset by growth
in Jalyn, and combined sales fell 5%. ViiV Healthcare (HIV)
Lovaza grew 5% to £607 million primarily reflecting the benefit of ViiV Healthcare sales declined by 10%, with the USA down 22%,
improved pricing. Lovaza continues to hold broadly flat market share Europe down 3%, and EMAP up 3%. Sales growth in Epzicom/
in a market which has declined approximately 7% compared with Kivexa (up 10% to £665 million) and Selzentry (up 20% to
2011, as economic pressures have resulted in fewer doctor visits £128 million) were more than offset by a 30% decline in the
and reduced testing for asymptomatic conditions such as very mature portfolio, primarily as a result of generic competition in
high triglycerides. the USA to Combivir and Epivir.
Metabolic Vaccines turnover
The decline in Metabolic product sales continued to reflect the loss
2012 2011 Growth Growth
of sales of Avandia, and the impact of declining sales of Bonviva in £m £m CER% £%
Europe following the change in the deal structure. Total Vaccines sales 3,325 3,497 (2) (5)
Anti-bacterials Performance of the Vaccines business improved towards the end
of the year, with a significant increase in tender sales in the fourth
Anti-bacterials sales grew 5% in EMAP, primarily from Augmentin,
quarter. The 2% overall decline in sales was primarily attributable
but this was more than offset by the impact of austerity measures in
to the adverse comparison with strong Cervarix sales in 2011, which
Europe, which encouraged pharmacy-level generic substitution, and
benefited from the HPV vaccination catch-up programme in Japan,
generic competition in both Europe and the USA.
now complete. Cervarix sales declined 46% to £270 million.
Oncology and emesis Excluding Cervarix, Vaccines sales increased by 4%.
Three new products, Votrient (up 88% to £183 million), Promacta Infanrix/Pediarix sales increased 17% to £775 million, primarily
(up 76% to £130 million) and Arzerra (up 36% to £60 million) all reflecting strong tender orders in EMAP and growth in the USA,
continued to grow strongly in the USA, Europe and EMAP. Tykerb/ which benefited from a competitor supply shortage.
Tyverb also grew (up 6% to £239 million), with growth in the USA,
Rotarix sales grew 21% to £360 million, with strong sales growth
EMAP and Japan offsetting a small decline in Europe. Both Hycamtin
throughout EMAP as well as initial launch sales in Japan. In the USA,
in Europe and argatroban in the USA were adversely affected by
despite market share gains, sales declined 11%, primarily due to a
generic competition.
comparison with a very strong 2011, when sales benefited from a
In the USA, Votrient (up 59% to £91 million) benefited from the large stockpile purchase from the CDC.
launch of a new indication for use in advanced soft-tissue sarcoma.
Synflorix sales increased 17% to £385 million, largely reflecting
Sales of Promacta grew 66% to £54 million, reflecting the
continued strong growth in EMAP.
continued effect of longer-term use data that was added to
the label in 2011. Boostrix sales increased 25% to £238 million, largely driven by
the USA where the product continues to benefit from the expanded
indication for use in adults of 65 and older.GSK Annual Report 2012 59
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Sales of hepatitis vaccines fell 5% to £646 million as declines in Consumer Healthcare turnover
mature markets, partly the result of reduced government funding,
offset growth in EMAP of 21%. 2011
2012 (restated) Growth Growth
Fluarix/Flulaval sales were down 11% to £200 million, primarily the £m £m CER% £%
result of a 35% decline in the USA, which reflected a reduction in Total wellness 2,008 2,278 (10) (12)
the number of doses sold (approximately 21 million doses) compared Oral care 1,797 1,711 8 5
with 2011 (approximately 34 million doses). Sales grew 15% in Nutrition 1,050 1,025 8 2
Europe and 35% in EMAP. Skin health 255 261 (1) (2)
5,110 5,275 – (3)
The previously announced Japanese Vaccines joint venture between
GSK and Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd started operations on 2 July.
2011
The JV holds the development and commercial rights for existing 2012 (restated) Growth Growth
preventative vaccines from both parent companies. We sell vaccines £m £m CER% £%
into the JV at an agreed upon price, and this is reflected in turnover USA 926 1,002 (9) (8)
in the second half of 2012, which was reduced by approximately Europe 1,796 1,997 (6) (10)
£12 million by the change in structure. Both companies have an ROW 2,388 2,276 9 5
equal stake in the joint venture and share the profits equally. 5,110 5,275 – (3)
Sales from new pharmaceutical and vaccine launches Consumer Healthcare turnover was flat for the year. Excluding the
non-core OTC brands that were divested in early 2012, turnover
2012 2011 Growth Growth
increased by 5%, reflecting strong growth in Rest of World
£m £m CER% £%
Arzerra 60 44 36 36 markets (47% of 2012 sales) of 12%, while the USA, excluding the
non-core OTC brands, grew 2% for the year and Europe was flat.
Benlysta 70 15 >100 >100
Duodart/Jalyn 157 104 57 51 Total wellness
Lamictal XR 148 109 34 36
Total wellness sales were down 10% to £2,008 million, but
Nimenrix 1 – – –
excluding the non-core OTC brands that were divested in early 2012,
Potiga/Trobalt 7 1 >100 >100
the category delivered 2% growth despite a number of supply
Prolia 26 11 >100 >100 interruptions. Gastro-intestinal health, including Tums and Eno, led
Promacta 130 75 76 73
category growth at 11%. Pain Management, including Panadol, also
Requip XL 89 139 (32) (36)
registered strong growth of 8% driven by growth in emerging
Synflorix 385 350 17 10 markets. The Smoking reduction and cessation and Respiratory
Treximet 49 57 (14) (14) health categories both delivered 4% growth. Sales of alli declined by
Volibris 127 97 35 31 72% as a result of the supply interruption that was not resolved until
Votrient 183 100 88 83 late in the third quarter of 2012.
Dermatology 7 8 (15) (13)
Oral care
1,439 1,110 34 30
New products in 2012 are those launched in the last five years Oral care sales grew 8% to £1,797 million. The Sensodyne Sensitivity
(2008 to 2012 inclusive). Total sales of new products were & Acid Erosion was the strongest performing brand, with sales up
£1,439 million, grew 34% in the year and represented 7% of 15% to £706 million. Strong results from Denture care products also
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover. helped to offset a 2% decline in Aquafresh sales.
Nimenrix was approved by the European Medicines Agency in April Nutrition
2012 for active immunization against invasive meningococcal disease
Nutrition sales grew 8%. Family nutrition (Horlicks) grew 14% due
caused by Neisseria meningitides serogroups A,C, W-135 and Y.
to strong growth in India. The Maxinutrition adult nutrition business
Launches are now underway in several countries throughout Europe
delivered 21% sales growth for the year. Strong emerging market
including the UK, Germany and the Netherlands.
growth of Lucozade offset declines in Europe.
MenHibrix, a combination vaccine to help prevent meningococcal
serogroups C and Y and Hib disease, was approved by the FDA in Skin health
June 2012. In October 2012, the Advisory Committee on
Skin health sales declined 1% to £255 million. Strong Bactroban
Immunization Practices of the Centers for Disease Control and
growth in China and solid results in Lip care (including Abreva)
Prevention voted for a limited recommendation for immunisation
were offset by a decline in sales of Hinds in Mexico.
of infants at an increased risk for meningococcal disease. The
product is not yet available. Regional performance
Fluarix Quadrivalent, the first four-strain intramuscular influenza Growth in Rest of World markets of 12% excluding the non-core
vaccine to help prevent disease caused by seasonal influenza, was OTC products that were divested in early 2012 was broadly based
approved by the FDA in December 2012 for use in adults and with strong growth across most categories. In Europe overall growth
children (three years and older). Launch of Fluarix Quadrivalent is in Oral care and Wellness brands was almost entirely offset by the
expected in time for the 2013/14 influenza season. loss of alli sales due to a supply issue. In the USA growth in Oral
care, Gastro-intestinal health and Smoking reduction and cessation
brands was also significantly offset by a decline in alli sales as a
result of the supply interruption.60 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Core results The table below analyses the Group R&D expenditure by these
categories:
We use the core reporting basis to manage the performance of
the Group and the definition of core results is set out on page 56.
2011
A review of the Group’s total results is set out on pages 63 to 64. 2012 (restated)
The reconciliation of total results to core results is presented £m £m
on page 62. Discovery 800 822
Development 1,655 1,669
2012 2011 Growth Facilities and central support functions 366 477
% of (restated) % of Pharmaceuticals R&D 2,821 2,968
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
Vaccines R&D 498 564
Turnover 26,431 100.0 27,387 100.0 (1) (3)
Consumer Healthcare R&D 155 146
Cost of sales (7,078) (26.8) (7,259) (26.5) 1 (2)
Core R&D 3,474 3,678
Selling, general
and administration (7,855) (29.7) (7,956) (29.1) – (1) Amortisation and impairment of
Research and intangible assets 483 234
development (3,474) (13.1) (3,678) (13.4) (5) (6) Major restructuring 11 97
Royalty income 306 1.1 309 1.1 – (1) Total R&D 3,968 4,009
Core operating profit 8,330 31.5 8,803 32.1 (3) (5) The proportion of Pharmaceuticals R&D investment made in the
late-stage portfolio continues to grow from 56% of the total
Net finance costs (724) (707)
Pharmaceuticals R&D costs in 2011 to 59% in 2012.
Share of after tax profits
of associates and joint Core R&D expenditure declined 5% to £3,474 million (13.1% of
ventures 29 15 turnover) compared with £3,678 million in 2011 (13.4% of turnover).
Core profit before tax 7,635 8,111 (4) (6) Ongoing cost management, including one-off benefits, and some
Taxation (1,864) (2,104) beneficial phasing effects, more than funded additional HGS costs.
Core profit after tax 5,771 6,007 (2) (4)
Royalty income
Core profit attributable
to shareholders 5,536 5,810 Royalty income was £306 million compared with £309 million
Core earnings per share 112.7p 115.5p – (2) in 2011.
Operating profit
Cost of sales
Core operating profit was £8,330 million, a 3% decrease in CER
Core cost of sales increased to 26.8% of turnover (2011 – 26.5%).
terms on a turnover decline of 1% CER. The operating margin
This primarily reflected the impact of lower sales, lower volumes and
declined by 0.6 percentage points to 31.5% compared with the
adverse regional and product mix partially offset by ongoing cost
12 months to December 2011 of which 0.3 percentage points was
management and one-off royalty and pension adjustments.
due to the expected impact of the HGS acquisition. The remaining
Selling, general and administration 0.3 percentage points arose from flat SG&A on lower turnover,
partially mitigated by lower R&D expenditure. Operating profit also
Core SG&A costs as a percentage of sales were 29.7% compared
benefited from a number of one-off items which were recognised
with 29.1% in 2011 reflecting flat costs on a turnover decline of 1%.
in cost of sales, SG&A and R&D including favourable adjustments
Investments in growth businesses and new product launches as well
totalling £395 million related to the capping of future pensionable
as additional HGS costs were funded by ongoing cost management
salary increases and a change in the basis of future discretionary
and one-off benefits.
pension increases from RPI to CPI in certain legacy plans.
Advertising and promotion decreased 4%, Selling and distribution
was flat and general administration increased 5%.
Core operating profit by business
Research and development 2012 2011 Growth
Margin (restated) Margin
We remain focused on delivering an improved return on our £m % £m % CER% £%
investment in R&D and sales contribution, reduced attrition and cost Pharmaceuticals 6,622 36.8 7,155 38.4 (6) (7)
reduction are all important drivers of an improving internal rate of Vaccines 1,169 35.2 1,184 33.9 (1) (1)
return. R&D expenditure is not determined as a percentage of sales, Pharmaceuticals and
but instead capital is allocated using strict returns based criteria. Vaccines 7,791 36.5 8,339 37.7 (5) (7)
Consumer Healthcare 938 18.4 1,084 20.5 (9) (13)
The operations of Pharmaceuticals R&D are broadly split into
Discovery activities (up to the completion of Phase IIa trials) and 8,729 33.0 9,423 34.4 (5) (7)
Development work (from Phase IIb onwards). Corporate & other
unallocated costs (399) (620) (32) (36)
Core operating profit 8,330 31.5 8,803 32.1 (3) (5)GSK Annual Report 2012 61
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
Core operating profit by segment
2012 2011 Growth The share of after tax profits of associates of £29 million
% of (restated) % of (2011 – £15 million) principally arose from the Group’s holdings
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% in Aspen Pharmacare.
Pharmaceuticals and
Vaccines Profit before taxation
USA 4,786 68.4 4,646 66.2 1 3
Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of interest
Europe 2,629 52.6 3,154 55.3 (11) (17)
in associates and the share of profits in associates, profit before
EMAP 1,564 33.0 1,481 33.2 9 6
taxation was £7,635 million compared with £8,111 million in 2011,
Japan 1,179 59.9 1,249 60.0 (7) (6)
a 4% CER decline and a 6% decline in sterling terms.
ViiV Healthcare 849 61.8 882 56.2 – (4)
Pharmaceutical R&D (2,778) (2,801) (1) (1) Taxation
Other trading and
Tax on core profit amounted to £1,864 million and represented an
unallocated
effective core tax rate of 24.4% (2011 – 25.9%), meeting the target
pharmaceuticals (438) (35.3) (272) (21.5) 75 61
core rate of 25% two years ahead of expectations. GSK is now
Pharmaceuticals and
targeting a core tax rate of around 24% for the full year 2013.
Vaccines 7,791 36.5 8,339 37.7 (5) (7)
Consumer Healthcare 938 18.4 1,084 20.5 (9) (13) GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the
8,729 33.0 9,423 34.4 (5) (7) liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and not yet
Corporate & other agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may
unallocated costs (399) (620) (32) (36) vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
Core operating profit 8,330 31.5 8,803 32.1 (3) (5) outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation.
Earnings per share
The decline in the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines core operating
margin primarily reflects the changing regional mix of the businesses Core earnings per share of 112.7 pence was flat in CER terms and
towards lower margin markets. The decline in Consumer Healthcare down 2% at actual rates. The currency impact reflected the
core operating margin primarily reflects the decline in sales following strengthening of Sterling against the Euro and a number of other
the disposal of the non-core OTC brands during the year. currencies, partially offset by the weakening of Sterling against the
US dollar and the Japanese Yen.
Net finance costs
Dividend
2012 2011
Finance income £m £m The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend for
Interest and other income 77 90 the year of 74 pence, a 4 pence increase on the ordinary dividends
Fair value movements 2 – for 2011. In 2011, the Board also declared a supplemental interim
dividend of 5 pence per share related to the disposal of certain
79 90
non-core OTC brands in North America. See Note 16 ‘Dividends’
on page 163.
Finance expense
Interest expense (745) (744) Revision of IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (10) (10)
Remeasurements and fair value movements (24) (23) IAS 19 (Revised) will be implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013.
The main effect will be that the expected returns on pension
Other finance expense (24) (20)
scheme assets will no longer be recognised in the income statement.
(803) (797)
Expected returns will be replaced by income calculated using the
Despite an increase in net debt of £5.0 billion in 2012, net finance same discount rate as that used to measure the pension obligations.
expense for the year was broadly similar to 2011 at £724 million, This discount rate is based on market rates for high quality corporate
reflecting the benefits of our strategy to improve the funding profile bonds. As a consequence, pension scheme costs will be higher
of the Group. under IAS 19 (Revised). For 2013 reporting, the results for 2012 will
be restated retrospectively, and the effect of the change, on 2012
The target to reduce the average effective annual net funding ratio
results, would have been to reduce core operating profit for the year
by approximately 200 basis points to around 6% in 2013 has been
by approximately £92 million and core EPS by approximately 1.3p to
achieved one-year earlier than planned.
111.4p. It is estimated that core operating profit in 2013 will be
Net debt increased by £5.0 billion in the twelve months primarily reduced by approximately £160 million and core EPS by
due to payments of £1.9 billion to settle the Group’s most significant approximately 2.5p by the change.
ongoing US federal government investigations within existing
provisions and the £2.0 billion cash cost of the acquisition of HGS.
The balance, as well as the Group’s strong cash generation and the
proceeds from the disposal of the Consumer Healthcare OTC brands
enabled the financing of share repurchases of £2.5 billion and
increased dividend payments of £3.8 billion.62 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2012
Other Acquisition
Core Intangible Intangible Major Legal operating adjust- Total
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges income ments results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 26,431 26,431
Cost of sales (7,078) (378) (309) (128) (1) (7,894)
Gross profit 19,353 (378) (309) (128) (1) 18,537
Selling, general and administration (7,855) (418) (436) (2) (28) (8,739)
Research and development (3,474) (99) (384) (11) (3,968)
Royalty income 306 306
Other operating income 1,256 1,256
Operating profit 8,330 (477) (693) (557) (436) 1,254 (29) 7,392
Net finance costs (724) (1) (4) (729)
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 29 29
Profit before taxation 7,635 (477) (693) (558) (436) 1,254 (33) 6,692
Taxation (1,864) 145 196 (285) 150 (290) (1,948)
Tax rate 24.4% 29.1%
Profit after taxation 5,771 (332) (497) (843) (286) 964 (33) 4,744
Profit attributable to
non-controlling interests 235 (136) 10 70 179
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,536 (332) (361) (853) (286) 894 (33) 4,565
Earnings per share 112.7p (6.8)p (7.3)p (17.4)p (5.8)p 18.2p (0.7)p 92.9p
Weighted average number of
shares (millions) 4,912 4,912
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2011
Other Acquisition Total
Core Intangible Intangible Major Legal operating adjust- results
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges income ments (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,387 27,387
Cost of sales (7,259) (304) (12) (73) (7,648)
Gross profit 20,128 (304) (12) (73) 19,739
Selling, general and administration (7,956) (397) (157) (8,510)
Research and development (3,678) (137) (97) (97) (4,009)
Royalty income 309 309
Other operating income – (23) 301 278
Operating profit 8,803 (441) (109) (590) (157) 301 7,807
Net finance costs (707) (2) (709)
Profit on disposal of interests
in associates – 585 585
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 15 15
Profit before taxation 8,111 (441) (109) (592) (157) 886 7,698
Taxation (2,104) 137 41 114 22 (450) (2,240)
Tax rate 25.9% 29.1%
Profit after taxation 6,007 (304) (68) (478) (135) 436 5,458
Profit attributable to
non-controlling interests 197 197
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,810 (304) (68) (478) (135) 436 5,261
Earnings per share 115.5p (6.0)p (1.4)p (9.5)p (2.7)p 8.7p 104.6p
Weighted average number of
shares (millions) 5,028 5,028GSK Annual Report 2012 63
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
& risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Total results Operating profit
2012 2011 Growth Total operating profit was £7,392 million, a 3% decrease in CER
% of (restated) % of terms on a turnover decline of 1% CER. The operating margin
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% decreased by 0.5 percentage points to 28.0% compared with the
Turnover 26,431 100 27,387 100 (1) (3) 12 months to December 2011 of which 0.3 percentage points was
Cost of sales (7,894) (29.9) (7,648) (27.9) 6 3 due to the expected impact of the HGS acquisition. The remaining
Selling, general 0.2 percentage points arose from a 4% growth in SG&A on lower
and administration (8,739) (33.1) (8,510) (31.1) 4 3 turnover, partially mitigated by lower R&D expenditure and higher
Research and other operating income. Operating profit also benefited from a
development (3,968) (15.0) (4,009) (14.6) (1) (1) number of one-off items which were recognised in cost of sales,
Royalty income 306 1.2 309 1.1 – (1) SG&A and R&D including favourable adjustments totalling
Other operating income 1,256 4.8 278 1.0 >100 >100 £395 million related to the capping of future pensionable salary
increases and a change in the basis of future discretionary pension
Operating profit 7,392 28.0 7,807 28.5 (3) (5)
increases from RPI to CPI in certain legacy plans.
Net finance costs (729) (709)
Profit on disposal of At the operating profit level the non-core charges totalled
interest in associates – 585 £938 million in the year (2011 – £996 million).
Share of after tax The intangible asset amortisation of £477 million (2011 –
profits of associates £441 million) included £39 million related to the amortisation of
and joint ventures 29 15 the Benlysta intangible asset acquired as part of the HGS acquisition.
Profit before taxation 6,692 7,698 (11) (13)
Intangible asset impairment charges of £693 million (2011 –
Taxation (1,948) (2,240)
£109 million) included the impairments of Horizant, alli and the
Total profit after
ViiV Healthcare compound, lersivirine, totalling £491 million. Major
taxation for the year 4,744 5,458 (11) (13) restructuring charges of £557 million (2011 – £590 million) included
Total profit attributable £165 million related to the acquisition of HGS and other charges
to shareholders 4,565 5,261 arising from the Operational Excellence programme.
Earnings per share (p) 92.9 104.6 (9) (11)
Legal charges were £436 million (2011 – £157 million). Various
Earnings per ADS (US$) $2.95 $3.37
Federal government investigations were resolved in Q2 2012 within
the existing pre-tax provision and the after tax cost was
Cost of sales
approximately $150 million lower than provided. As a result, a credit
Cost of sales increased to 29.9% of turnover (2011 – 27.9%). was recorded as a non-core tax charge in Q2 2012. However, due
This primarily reflected the impact of lower sales, higher intangible to the evolving state litigation environment, GSK utilised the tax
asset impairments, lower volumes, higher restructuring costs and benefit arising in recording an offsetting additional pre-tax provision
adverse regional and product mix partially offset by ongoing cost of approximately $180 million (equating to an after tax cost of
management and one-off royalty and pension adjustments. $150 million) related to these matters. This was recorded as a
non-core legal charge in SG&A in Q2 2012. The net effect of these
Selling, general and administration movements on total earnings was neutral. Other legal charges of
£323 million principally related to provisions for existing product
SG&A costs as a percentage of sales were 33.1% compared with
liability and anti-trust matters.
31.1% in 2011 reflecting a 4% increase in costs on a turnover
decline of 1%. Investments in growth businesses and new product Other operating income of £1,254 million (2011: £301 million)
launches, higher legal and restructuring charges as well as additional included the profit on disposal of the non-core OTC brands of
HGS costs were partly offset by ongoing cost management and £559 million and the non-cash gains of £582 million arising on the
one-off benefits. settlement of pre-existing collaborations as part of the HGS and
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture acquisitions. Acquisition
Advertising and promotion decreased 4%, Selling and distribution
accounting adjustments of £29 million (2011 – £nil) relate to the
decreased 2% and general and administration increased 17%,
acquisition of HGS. All acquisition accounting related adjustments
primarily reflecting increased legal costs in the year.
related to this acquisition will be reported as non-core items.
Research and development
Net finance costs
R&D expenditure declined 1% to £3,968 million (15.0% of turnover)
compared with £4,009 million in 2011 (14.6% of turnover). Ongoing 2012 2011
cost management, including one-off benefits, lower restructuring Finance income £m £m
and some beneficial phasing effects, more than offset additional Interest and other finance income 77 90
HGS costs and higher intangible asset impairments. Fair value movements 2 –
79 90
Other operating income
Finance expense Other operating income of £1,256 million (2011 – £278 million)
Interest expense (745) (744)
included the profit on disposal of the non-core OTC brands of
£559 million and the non-cash gains of £582 million arising on the Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (15) (12)
settlement of pre-existing collaborations as part of the HGS and Remeasurements and fair value movements (24) (23)
ViiV Healthcare/Shionogi joint venture acquisitions. Other finance expense (24) (20)
(808) (799)
Despite an increase in net debt of £5.0 billion in 2012, net finance
expense for the year was broadly similar to 2011 at £729 million,
reflecting the benefits of our strategy to improve the funding profile
of the Group.64 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Profit on disposal of interest in associates Critical accounting policies
The pre-tax profit on disposal of interest in associates was £nil, The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
compared with £585 million in 2011, reflecting the disposal of the with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also with
remaining shares in Quest Diagnostics in 2011. IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies
approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. We are required
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of
The share of after tax profits of associates of £29 million
assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial
(2011 – £15 million) principally arose from the Group’s holdings in
statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from those
Aspen Pharmacare.
estimates.
Profit before taxation
The critical accounting policies, for which information on the
Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of interest judgements and estimates made is given in Note 3 to the financial
in associates and the share of profits of associates, profit before statements, ‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’, and in
taxation was £6,692 million compared with £7,698 million in 2011, the relevant detailed notes to the financial statements as indicated
a 11% CER decline and a 13% decline in sterling terms. below, relate to the following areas:
(cid:115)(cid:0) Turnover
Taxation
(cid:115)(cid:0) Taxation (Note 14)
2012 2011
£m £m (cid:115)(cid:0) Legal and other disputes (Notes 29 and 44)
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 365 647
(cid:115)(cid:0) Property, plant & equipment (Note 17)
Less double taxation relief (180) (164)
185 483 (cid:115)(cid:0) Goodwill (Note 18)
Overseas taxation 1,521 1,603 (cid:115)(cid:0) Other intangible assets (Note 19)
Current taxation 1,706 2,086
(cid:115)(cid:0) Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 28).
Deferred taxation 242 154
Taxation on total profits 1,948 2,240 Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas
is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting
The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to £1,948 million
judgements and estimates’.
and represented an effective tax rate of 29.1% (2011 – 29.1%). The
Group’s balance sheet at 31 December 2012 included a tax payable Turnover
liability of £1,374 million and a tax recoverable asset of £103 million.
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business
Within the tax charge on non-core items there is a charge of is US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, and the US market has the
£420 million, comprising predominantly deferred tax and hence most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
non-cash, relating to centralisation of our Pharmaceutical intellectual The following briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in
property and product inventory ownership into the UK. This existence in our US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business:
restructuring of our trading arrangements and increased investment
in the UK reflects terms that GSK has agreed to in discussions with (cid:115)(cid:0) We have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby
various tax authorities and has been facilitated by the introduction the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at reduced
of the UK Patent Box rules. In particular, we have agreed to enter prices. A chargeback represents the difference between the
into a bilateral Advance Pricing Agreement with the Internal Revenue invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect customer’s
Service in the USA and HM Revenue & Customs in the UK, which contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating chargebacks
will give us considerable certainty over our future tax affairs. The are calculated based on the terms of each agreement, historical
restructuring will simplify our business and internal trading experience and product growth rates
arrangements by substantially decreasing administrative complexity (cid:115)(cid:0) Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group
and will deliver supply chain and working capital efficiencies. There purchasing organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect
will be non-core, non-cash tax charges totalling approximately customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve
£600 million over the next two years arising from the unwinding certain performance targets relating to the value of product
of deferred profit in inventory, as existing inventory produced prior purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market shares
to the restructuring leaves the supply chain. relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates is
We continue to believe that we have made adequate provision for estimated based on the specific terms in each agreement,
the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and not historical experience and product growth rates
yet agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters (cid:115)(cid:0) The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients.
outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established
to reduce state and federal expenditure on prescription drugs.
Earnings per share
In 2010, the Patient and Affordable Care Act became law.
Total earnings per share was 92.9p for the year, compared with We participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for
104.6p in 2011 and non-core charges totalled 19.8p (2011 – 10.9p). Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of
Non-core items included a tax charge of £420 million (8.6p) arising the relevant regulations or the Patient and Affordable Care Act
from the centralisation of Pharmaceutical intellectual property and
product inventory ownership in the UK. Transactions completed in
2012 resulted in a number of significant non-cash accounting
entries. However, these largely offset each other.GSK Annual Report 2012 65
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
(cid:115)(cid:0) Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt Legal and other disputes
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes,
adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience
the following briefly describes the process by which we determine
(cid:115)(cid:0) We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying the level of provision that is necessary.
historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced,
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
together with market related information such as stock levels at
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for
wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of the
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business is as follows: likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising
from claims against the Group. We may become involved in
2012 2011 2010
significant legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible
Margin £m Margin £m
to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any,
£m % (restated) % (restated) %
that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In
Gross turnover 9,758 100 9,770 100 10,783 100
these cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be
included in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.
Market driven segments (1,121) (11) (1,012) (10) (1,044) (10)
Government mandated This position could change over time and, therefore, there can be
and state programs (1,377) (14) (1,394) (14) (1,592) (15) no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any
legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the amount Cash discounts (177) (2) (176) (2) (193) (2)
of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial statements.
Customer returns (147) (1) (105) (1) (180) (1)
Prior year adjustments 129 1 94 1 38 – Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with
Other items (65) (1) (155) (2) (183) (1) various complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation,
Total deductions (2,758) (28) (2,748) (28) (3,154) (29) as well as investigations of its operations conducted by various
Net turnover 7,000 72 7,022 72 7,629 71 governmental regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the
General Counsel of the Group, as head of the Group’s legal
Market driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and function, and the Senior Vice President and Head of Global
Medicare plans with which GSK negotiates contract pricing that is Litigation for the Group, who is responsible for all litigation and
honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments consist government investigations, routinely brief the Chief Executive
primarily of Medicaid and Federal government programs which Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Board of Directors
receive government mandated pricing via rebates and chargebacks. on the significant litigation pending against the Group and
governmental investigations of the Group.
The total balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances
and returns in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business at These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011 were as follows: litigation and governmental investigations and review matters such
as the number of claims notified to us, information on potential
At 31 At 31 claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of claims, progress
December December
2012 2011 made in settling claims, recent settlement levels and potential
£m £m reimbursement by insurers.
Chargebacks 30 43
The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not there is
Managed care, Medicare Part D
sufficient information available for us to be able to make a reliable
and GPO rebates 390 372
estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes. Often, external
US government and state programmes 529 578
counsel assisting us with various litigation matters and investigations
Cash discounts 21 18 will also assist in the briefing of the Board and senior management.
Customer returns 217 234 Following these discussions, for those matters where it is possible
Other 23 24 to make a reliable estimate of the amount of a provision, if any,
Total 1,210 1,269 that may be required, the level of provision for legal and other
disputes is reviewed and adjusted as appropriate.
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses gross
sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data
sources and information received from key wholesalers. The aim
of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to
year based on the pattern of consumption.
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels at
wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December 2012
were estimated to amount to approximately one month of turnover.
This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy of which
cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently reliable
for this purpose.66 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Financial position and resources Property, plant and equipment
Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
2012 2011 regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant financial
£m £m
resources to the renewal and maintenance of its property, plant and
Assets
equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production and to
Non-current assets
achieve compliance with regulatory standards. A number of its
Property, plant and equipment 8,776 8,748
processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Goodwill 4,359 3,754
The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at 31 December
Other intangible assets 10,161 7,802
2012 was £18,742 million, with a net book value of £8,776 million.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 579 560
Of this, land and buildings represented £4,043 million, plant and
Other investments 787 590
equipment £2,854 million and assets in construction £1,879 million.
Deferred tax assets 2,385 2,849
In 2012, we invested £1,165 million in new and renewal property, plant
Derivative financial instruments 54 85 and equipment. This is mainly related to a large number of projects for
Other non-current assets 682 525 the renewal, improvement and expansion of facilities at various
Total non-current assets 27,783 24,913 worldwide sites. Property is mainly held freehold. New investment is
financed from our liquid resources. At 31 December 2012, we had
Current assets
capital contractual commitments for future expenditure of £572 million
Inventories 3,969 3,873
and operating lease commitments of £849 million. We believe that our
Current tax recoverable 103 85 facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Trade and other receivables 5,242 5,576
We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to manage
Derivative financial instruments 49 70
environmental risks from these activities. Environmental issues,
Liquid investments 81 184
sometimes dating from operations now modified or discontinued,
Cash and cash equivalents 4,184 5,714
are reported under ‘Environmental sustainability’ on page 54 and
Assets held for sale 64 665 in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Total current assets 13,692 16,167
Total assets 41,475 41,080 Goodwill
Liabilities Goodwill increased during the year to £4,359 million at December
2012, from £3,754 million. The increase primarily reflects the
Current liabilities
goodwill arising on the acquisition of HGS of £791 million, partly
Short-term borrowings (3,631) (2,698)
offset by a weakening of overseas currencies.
Trade and other payables (8,054) (7,359)
Derivative financial instruments (63) (175) Other intangible assets
Current tax payable (1,374) (1,643)
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from
Short-term provisions (693) (3,135)
third parties and computer software. The net book value of other
Total current liabilities (13,815) (15,010)
intangible assets as at 31 December 2012 was £10,161 million
Non-current liabilities (2011 – £7,802 million). The increase in 2012 reflected assets
acquired from the acquisition of HGS of £1,249 million and from
Long-term borrowings (14,671) (12,203)
the acquisition of the global rights to the Shionogi – ViiV Healthcare
Deferred tax liabilities (1,004) (822)
LLC joint venture assets of £1,777 million, partly offset by the
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,105) (3,091)
amortisation and impairment of existing intangibles.
Other provisions (699) (499)
Derivative financial instruments (2) (2) Investments
Other non-current liabilities (1,432) (626)
We held investments, including associates and joint ventures,
Total non-current liabilities (20,913) (17,243)
with a carrying value at 31 December 2012 of £1,366 million
Total liabilities (34,728) (32,253)
(2011 – £1,150 million). The market value at 31 December 2012
Net assets 6,747 8,827 was £1,968 million (2011 – £1,355 million). The largest of these
investments are in an associate, Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited,
Equity
which had a book value at 31 December 2012 of £430 million
Share capital 1,349 1,387
(2011 – £393 million) and an investment in Theravance, Inc.
Share premium account 2,022 1,673
which had a book value at 31 December 2012 of £362 million
Retained earnings 652 3,370
(2011 – £226 million). The investments include equity stakes in
Other reserves 1,787 1,602 companies where the Group has research collaborations, which
Shareholders’ equity 5,810 8,032 provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest
Non-controlling interests 937 795 and interests in companies that arise from business divestments.
Total equity 6,747 8,827GSK Annual Report 2012 67
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Derivative financial instruments: assets Net debt
We had both non-current and current derivative financial
2012 2011
instruments held at fair value of £103 million (2011 – £155 million). £m £m
The majority of this amount relates to interest rate swaps and Cash, cash equivalents and
foreign exchange contracts designated as accounting hedges. liquid investments 4,265 5,898
Borrowings – repayable within one year (3,631) (2,698)
Inventories
Borrowings – repayable after one year (14,671) (12,203)
Inventory of £3,969 million has increased by £96 million during the Net debt (14,037) (9,003)
year. The increase reflects the impact of the acquisition of HGS
Net debt increased by £5,034 million and reflected the acquisition
together with higher Vaccine stocks, partly offset by initiatives to
of HGS for £2,031 million, net of cash acquired, together with
reduce manufacturing cycle times and reduce stockholding days
the legal settlements in the year of £2,610 million which included
through more efficient use of inventory throughout the supply chain.
the previously announced payments to the US Government of
Trade and other receivables £1.9 billion ($3 billion) in settlement of certain investigations.
The Group’s strong cash generation together with the proceeds
Trade and other receivables of £5,242 million have decreased from
from the disposal of the Consumer Healthcare OTC brands also
2011 reflecting specific actions taken to reduce overdue and other
enabled the financing of share repurchases of £2.5 billion and
receivables as part of our initiative to reduce working capital.
increased dividend payments of £3.8 billion.
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
Movements in net debt
We held current and non-current derivative financial instruments
held at fair value of £65 million (2011 – £177 million) relating
2012 2011
primarily to foreign exchange contracts which represent hedges £m £m
of inter-company loans and deposits, external debt and legal Net debt at beginning of year (9,003) (8,859)
provisions, but are not designated as accounting hedges. Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (1,607) (94)
Cash inflow from liquid investments (224) (30)
Trade and other payables
Net increase in long-term loans (4,430) –
Trade and other payables amounting to £8,054 million have Net repayment of/(increase in) short-term loans 816 (37)
increased from £7,359 million in 2011, reflecting the amount Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired (3) (10)
payable to non-controlling shareholders in GSK Consumer Exchange movements 385 (10)
Healthcare Ltd. in India under the offer to purchase additional
Other movements 29 37
shares and also the benefits of our working capital initiatives.
Net debt at end of year (14,037) (9,003)
Provisions
Total equity
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
At 31 December 2012, total equity had decreased from £8,827
non-current provisions of £2,396 million at 31 December 2012
million at 31 December 2011 to £6,747 million. The decrease arose
(2011 – £4,456 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities, of
principally from share repurchases in the year.
which £527 million (2011 – £2,772 million) related to legal and other
disputes. Provision has been made for legal and other disputes, A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
indemnified disposal liabilities, employee related liabilities and the
costs of restructuring programmes to the extent that at the balance 2012 2011
sheet date a legal or constructive obligation existed and could be £m £m
Total equity at beginning of year 8,827 9,745 reliably estimated.
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,011 4,424
Pensions and other post-employment benefits Dividends to shareholders (3,814) (3,406)
Shares issued 356 250
We account for pension and other post-employment
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The deficits, net of Changes in non-controlling interests (218) 18
surpluses before allowing for deferred taxation were £1,313 million Forward contract relating to non-controlling
(2011 – £1,476 million) on pension arrangements and £1,668 million interest 8 (29)
(2011 – £1,595 million) on unfunded post-employment liabilities. Shares purchased and cancelled or held
as Treasury shares (2,493) (2,191)
The pension liabilities decreased following an increase in asset
Consideration received for shares transferred
values in the UK, deficit reduction contributions of £368 million
(2011 – £450 million) and the one-off adjustments to the UK by ESOP Trusts 58 45
pension obligations made during the year, partly offset by reductions Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (37) (36)
in the rates used to discount UK pension liabilities from 4.8% to Share-based incentive plans 211 191
4.4% and US pension liabilities from 4.4% to 3.8%. Tax on share-based incentive plans 9 50
Distributions to non-controlling interests (171) (234)
In December 2010, the UK scheme purchased an insurance contract
that will guarantee payment of specified pensioner liabilities. Total equity at end of year 6,747 8,827
This contract was valued at £751 million at 31 December 2012.
The changes in non-controlling interests in the year primarily arise
from the acquisitions of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
and further shares in GSK Consumer Healthcare Ltd, the Group’s
Consumer Healthcare subsidiary in India.68 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Share purchases Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable
on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect
In 2012, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts acquired
of derivatives.
£37 million of shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc (2011 – £36 million).
Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options We have entered into a number of research collaborations to
and awards under the Group share option and award schemes. A develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect of awards The terms of these arrangements can include upfront fees, equity
where the rules of the scheme require us to satisfy exercises through investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of
market purchases rather than the issue of new shares. The shares research. In addition, we will often agree to make further payments
held by the Trusts are matched to options and awards granted. if future ‘milestones’ are achieved.
At 31 December 2012, the ESOP Trusts held 75 million (2011 – As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
91 million) GSK shares against the future exercise of share options stages of development, milestone payments will continue for a
and share awards. The carrying value of £391 million (2011 – number of years if the compounds move successfully through the
£492 million) has been deducted from other reserves. The market development process. Generally the closer the product is to
value of these shares was £1,004 million (2011 – £1,337 million). marketing approval the greater the possibility of success. The
amounts shown above within intangible assets represent the
During 2011, we commenced a new long-term share buy-back
maximum that would be paid if all milestones were achieved, and
programme. 174 million shares were repurchased in 2012 at a cost
include £6.0 billion which relates to externalised projects in the
of £2,493 million (see Note 33 ‘Share capital’). We are currently
discovery portfolio. A number of new commitments were made in
targetting further repurchases of £1-2 billion during 2013. The
2012 under licensing and other agreements, including arrangements
exact amount and timing of future purchases, and whether the
with Angiochem, Inc., Five Prime Therapuetics, Inc., MD Anderson
shares will be held as Treasury shares or be cancelled, will be
Cancer Centre and Morphotek, Inc.
determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions
and other factors. At 31 December 2012, we held 495 million In 2009, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK
shares as Treasury shares (2011 – 501.2 million shares), at a cost of pension schemes to make additional contributions over a five
£6,602 million (2011 – £6,661 million), which has been deducted year period, to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the
from retained earnings. 31 December 2008 actuarial funding valuation. The table above
includes this commitment but excludes the normal ongoing annual
No shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2013 to
funding requirement in the UK of approximately £120 million.
28 February 2013.
For further information on pension obligations, see Note 28 to
the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
Commitments and contingent liabilities
benefits’.
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 39 to the financial
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and Contingent liabilities
obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other
Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are expected to expire.
set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other
post-employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set
Guarantees 132 79 3 1 49
out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Other contingent liabilities 77 3 41 17 16
Contractual obligations and commitments Total 209 82 44 18 65
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and In the normal course of business, we have provided various
commitments at 31 December 2012 as they fall due for payment. indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals
in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen.
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
A provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
£m £m £m £m £m
probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome
Loans 18,302 3,607 2,834 2,243 9,618
of the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the financial
Interest on loans 10,207 690 1,243 1,107 7,167
statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Finance lease obligations 76 27 34 10 5
Finance lease charges 9 3 4 1 1 We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes when
an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
Operating lease
estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December 2012, other
commitments 849 146 175 115 413
than for those disputes where provision has been made, it was not
Intangible assets 7,780 551 889 1,365 4,975
possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of
Property, plant & equipment 572 473 99 – –
funds that might be required to settle disputes where the possibility
Investments 72 19 32 21 –
of there being an outflow was more than remote.
Purchase commitments 762 209 293 260 –
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from
Pensions 368 368 – – –
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
Other commitments 268 90 109 67 2
litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax
Total 39,265 6,183 5,712 5,189 22,181
authorities. This is discussed further in ‘Risk factors’ on pages 78
to 86 and Notes 14 and 44 to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’
and ‘Legal proceedings’.GSK Annual Report 2012 69
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Cash generation and conversion A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, which is
the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash flow is shown below.
A summary of the consolidated cash flow is set out below.
Reconciliation of free cash flow
2012 2011
£m £m
2012 2011
Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,375 6,250
£m £m
Net cash outflow from investing activities (2,631) (112) Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,375 6,250
Net cash outflow from financing activities (3,351) (6,232) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,051) (923)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (1,607) (94) Purchase of intangible assets (469) (405)
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 68 100
Exchange adjustments (92) (108)
Interest paid (779) (769)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,605 5,807
Interest received 30 97
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,906 5,605
Dividends received from joint ventures and
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year associated undertakings 46 25
comprise: Distributions to non-controlling interests (171) (234)
Cash and cash equivalents 4,184 5,714 Free cash flow 2,049 4,141
Overdrafts (278) (109)
Investment appraisal
3,906 5,605
We have a formal process for assessing potential investment
The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid was
proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with our overall
£4,375 million, a decrease of £1,875 million in sterling terms
strategy. This process includes an assessment of the cash flow return
compared with 2011 and reflected the impact of a reduced
on investment (CFROI), as well as its net present value (NPV) and
operating profit and the phasing of tax payments.
internal rate of return (IRR) where the timeline for the project is very
The net cash outflow from investing activities was £2,631 million, long term. We also consider the impact on earnings and credit
£2,519 million higher than 2011, which primarily reflected the profile where relevant.
acquisition of HGS and the sale of the non-core OTC brands during
The discount rate used to perform financial analyses is decided
the year, partly offset by the proceeds from the disposal of our
internally, to allow determination of the extent to which investments
shareholding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. during 2011.
cover our cost of capital. For specific investments the discount rate
The net cash outflow from financing activities was £3,351 million may be adjusted to take into account country or other risk weightings.
and primarily reflected a net increase in external borrowing of
£3,614 million offset by the repurchase of shares and dividends to Capital expenditure and financial investment
shareholders totalling £6,307 million.
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
to £1,520 million (2011 - £1,328 million) and disposals realised
Free cash flow
£1,124 million (2011 – £337 million). Cash payments to acquire
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business equity investments of £229 million (2011 – £76 million) were made
after meeting its obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to in the year and sales of equity investments realised £28 million
non-controlling interests, and after capital expenditure on property, (2011 – £68 million).
plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Future cash flow
2012 2011
We expect that future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund
Free cash flow (£m) 2,049 4,141
our operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels of
Free cash flow growth (%) (51)% (8)%
capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing
Free cash flow was adversely impacted by legal settlements of agreements, to meet the expenditure arising from the major
£2,610 million (2011 – £1,466 million). Free cash flow excluding legal restructuring programmes (the precise timing of which is uncertain)
settlements was £4,659 million in 2012 (2011 – £5,607 million), and outlined in Note 10 to the financial statements, ‘Major restructuring
this, together with £904 million from the disposal of the non-core costs’ and to meet other routine outflows including tax and
OTC brands, enabled the Group to pay dividends to shareholders of dividends, subject to the ‘Risk factors’ discussed on pages 78 to 86.
£3.8 billion, and spend £2.5 billion on repurchasing shares. We may from time to time have additional demands for finance,
such as for acquisitions and share repurchases. We have access to
Our commitment is to continue to use free cash flow to support
other sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital markets
increasing dividends, undertake share repurchases or, where returns are
and banks and other financial institutions, in addition to the cash
more attractive, reinvest in the business, including bolt-on acquisitions.
flow from operations, for such needs.
Working capital
2011
2012 (restated)
Working capital percentage of turnover (%) 21% 21%
Working capital conversion cycle (days) 194 202
Working capital reduced by £397 million in 2012 compared with a
reduction of £477 million in 2011. Working capital conversion cycle
reduced by eight days reflecting improvements in conversion for
receivables, payables and inventory. This was partly offset by the
acquisition of HGS, which added three days to the conversion cycle.70 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Maturity profile of gross debt
£m equivalent
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
2013 2014 2015 2017 2018 2022 2025 2027 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds Commercial Paper Other bank borrowings Leases
Payment policies Capital management
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing their Our financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities and it
working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier is regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital structure
payments reflect local commercial practice. of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity in order
to optimise returns to shareholders whilst maintaining credit ratings
In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have policies
that provide us with flexibility to access debt capital markets on
to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular,
attractive terms. Our financial architecture is designed to drive
the UK companies seek:
growth in earnings per share and cash generation in order to
(cid:115)(cid:0) to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the maximise the returns from the Group’s strategy. The free cash flow
terms of the transaction we generate is then deployed to deliver returns to shareholders and
reinvested in the business depending on where returns are most
(cid:115)(cid:0) to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms
attractive. We continue to apply strict financial and returns-based
of payment
criteria such as cash flow return on investment in order to allocate
(cid:115)(cid:0) to abide by the terms of payment. capital and assess investment opportunities.
The policy permits arrangements for accelerated payment to small The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
suppliers. £14.0 billion (see Note 32, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity of
£5.8 billion (see ’Consolidated statement of changes in equity‘ on
Payment performance page 142). Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling
interests of £0.9 billion, is £20.7 billion.
At 31 December 2012, the average number of days’ payable
outstanding represented by trade payables of the parent company For further details see Note 41 to the financial statements ‘Financial
was nil (2011 – nil) and in respect of the company and its UK instruments and related disclosures’.
subsidiaries in aggregate was 56 days (2011 – 61 days).
Liquidity
Treasury policies
As at 31 December 2012, our cash and liquid investments were held
GSK reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits. as follows:
The role of Corporate Treasury is to monitor and manage our external
and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of 2012 2011
our strategic objectives. GSK operates on a global basis, primarily £m £m
Bank balances and deposits 3,456 3,875
through subsidiary companies, and we manage our capital to ensure
that our subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to US Treasury and Treasury repo
optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance of only money market funds 728 1,839
debt and equity. Treasury activities are governed by policies and Corporate debt instruments 7 9
procedures approved by the Board of Directors, most recently on Government securities 74 175
11 July 2012. A Treasury Management Group (TMG) meeting chaired 4,265 5,898
by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a monthly basis to
review treasury activities. Its members receive management
information relating to treasury activities.GSK Annual Report 2012 71
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
We had net debt of £14.0 billion at 31 December 2012. The table below Interest rate risk management
summarises cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging.
GSK’s objective is to reduce our effective net interest cost and to
rebalance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
2012 2011
£m £m time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
Cash and liquid investments 4,265 5,898 of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
Gross debt – fixed (15,205) (13,621) operating profit.
– floating (3,090) (1,279)
We use a series of interest rate swaps to redenominate one of
– non-interest bearing (7) (1) our bonds into floating interest rates. The duration of these swaps
Net debt (14,037) (9,003) matches the duration of the principal instrument. These interest rate
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated derivative instruments are accounted for as fair value hedges of
funding requirements. The cash flow forecast and funding the relevant liability.
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis.
Foreign exchange risk management
Our strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of
facilities and to maintain broad access to funding markets. Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and
external trade flows are not hedged. The exposure of overseas
At 31 December 2012,GSK had £4.3 billion of cash, cash equivalents
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk is minimised by matching
and liquid investments and £3.6 billion of borrowings repayable
local currency income with local currency costs. For this purpose, our
within one year. GSK also has access to short-term finance under
internal trading transactions are matched centrally and we manage
a US$10 billion commercial paper programme and $2.9 billion
inter-company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk.
(£1.7 billion) was in issue under this programme at 31 December
Foreign currency cash flows can be hedged selectively under the
2012. GSK has £1.9 billion five year committed medium term
management of Corporate Treasury and the TMG. Where possible,
facilities and $2.5 billion of 364-day committed facilities. These
we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing requirements of
facilities were put in place in September 2012. We consider this
subsidiary companies centrally using forward contracts to hedge
level of committed facilities to be adequate given current liquidity
future repayments back into the originating currency.
requirements.
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek to
We have a European Medium Term Note programme of £15 billion
denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets and
and at 31 December 2012, £7.0 billion of notes were in issue under
cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US dollars, Euros and this programme. We also have a US shelf registration statement and
Sterling. Certain borrowings can be swapped into other currencies
at 31 December 2012, we had $15.0 billion (£9.2 billion) of notes in
as required.
issue under this programme. GSK’s long-term borrowings mature
at dates between 2014 and 2045. Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated GSK’s long-term credit ratings have remained unchanged since
as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major
February 2008 and currently GSK is rated A+ stable outlook by
currencies are also used to reduce our exposure to our investment
Standard and Poor’s and A1 stable outlook by Moody’s Investors
in overseas Group assets. The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings
Service (‘Moody’s’). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1
to assets for major currencies monthly.
with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
Counterparty risk management
Treasury operations
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking and
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net cost
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
or income of financial operations to the benefit of earnings. We use
Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage of
a variety of financial instruments to finance our operations and
these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer
derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from these
(CCO) who operates independently of Corporate Treasury. Any
operations. These derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign
breach of these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately.
currency contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are used to
The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and, swap borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for
when changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury so that
Group purposes and to manage exposure to financial risks from
changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits as
changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
appropriate. In addition, a report on relationship banks and their
Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre. We do not credit ratings is presented annually to the TMG for approval and
hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes. Our Treasury reviewed regularly.
policies specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial
instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from
underlying business activities, not for speculation.72 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Financial review 2011 Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area
In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the following 2011 2010 Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
discussion compares results for the year to 31 December 2011 with
Respiratory 7,298 7,238 2 1
the results for the year to 31 December 2010.
Anti-virals 842 1,167 (29) (28)
Following the introduction of core measures to report the Central nervous system 1,721 1,753 (2) (2)
performance of the Group and changes to reflect the new reporting Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,454 2,314 8 6
structure of the Group (see page 56) this financial review has been
Metabolic 331 647 (49) (49)
restated on a consistent basis.
Anti-bacterials 1,390 1,396 1 –
All growth rates included in the financial review are at constant Oncology and emesis 683 679 2 1
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. CER growth is Dermatology 898 849 8 6
discussed on page 56. Rare diseases 463 408 12 14
Immuno-inflammation 15 – – –
Group turnover by division
Other pharmaceuticals 951 956 1 (1)
2011 2010 Growth Growth ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,569 1,566 1 –
£m £m CER% £%
18,615 18,973 (1) (2)
Pharmaceuticals 18,615 18,973 (1) (2)
Vaccines 3,497 4,326 (19) (19) Respiratory
Pharmaceuticals
Respiratory sales increased 2% to £7.3 billion reflecting strong
and Vaccines 22,112 23,299 (4) (5)
performances in Japan, Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific.
Consumer Healthcare 5,275 5,093 5 4
Seretide/Advair sales were flat as growth in Japan and Asia Pacific
27,387 28,392 (3) (4)
offset small declines in the USA and Europe. In addition, Ventolin
grew 17% to £602 million and Avamys/Veramyst sales were up
Group turnover by geographic region
24% to £241 million.
2011 2010 Growth Growth In the USA, sales of Advair were £2.5 billion, down 1% which was
£m £m CER% £%
in line with estimated underlying growth for the year (6% volume
USA 8,684 9,345 (4) (7)
decline partly offset by 5% positive impact of price and mix).
Europe 8,271 9,091 (10) (9)
Flovent grew 8% to £447 million and Ventolin grew 39% to
EMAP 6,403 6,074 8 5
£239 million.
Japan 2,318 2,155 1 8
In Europe, Respiratory sales were down 2%. Seretide sales were
Other 1,711 1,727 (5) (1)
down 2% at £1.6 billion as the impact of price reductions by
27,387 28,392 (3) (4)
European governments offset volume increases.
Group turnover by segment In Emerging Markets, Respiratory sales grew 8%, with growth
in many products in the portfolio. Seretide sales were flat at
2011 2011 Growth Growth
£317 million as volume growth was offset by the continuing
£m £m CER% £%
impact of price cuts, particularly in Russia and Turkey.
Pharmaceuticals
and Vaccines:
Anti-virals
USA 7,022 7,629 (4) (8)
Europe 5,700 6,479 (13) (12) Anti-virals decreased 29% to £0.8 billion. Sales growth was
EMAP 4,459 4,347 5 3 impacted by lower sales of Relenza (down 79% to £27 million)
compared with significant sales in 2010 related to pandemic flu.
Japan 2,082 1,959 – 6
In addition, Valtrex sales continued to decline as a result of generic
ViiV Healthcare 1,569 1,566 1 –
competition in the USA and Europe (down 38% to £339 million).
Other trading and
Sales of Zeffix grew 1% to £237 million with strong growth in
unallocated 1,280 1,319 (7) (3)
Emerging Markets being offset by small declines in most other
Pharmaceuticals markets.
and Vaccines 22,112 23,299 (4) (5)
Consumer Healthcare 5,275 5,093 5 4 Central nervous system (CNS)
27,387 28,392 (3) (4)
CNS sales decreased 2% to £1.7 billion. Performance was primarily
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area impacted by a decline in Seroxat/Paxil sales (down 13% to
£435 million), partially offset by Lamictal sales growth (up 8%
Turnover declined 1% to £18.6 billion, with growth in Cardiovascular to £536 million) benefiting from growth in Japan where product
and urogenital, Respiratory, Dermatology, Antibacterials, HIV and sales more than doubled to £41 million and a continuing strong
Oncology and emesis, more than offset by declines in Metabolic, performance of Lamictal XR in the USA.
Anti-virals and Central nervous system.GSK Annual Report 2012 73
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Cardiovascular and urogenital The Selzentry sales growth was primarily driven by an increase
in market share. In the USA, sales were £45 million, up 38% and
Cardiovascular and urogenital sales increased 8% to £2.5 billion,
in Europe sales were £51 million, up 24%.
primarily driven by the Avodart franchise, up 20% to £748 million,
with the launches of the new combination product Duodart/Jalyn in The decline in the mature portfolio (including Combivir which
the USA and Europe and of Avodart in Japan, and Lovaza, up 12% to declined 10% to £322 million) was primarily driven by a decline
£569 million. Arixtra declined 7% to £276 million as a result of the in the western markets as a result of newer treatment options.
start of generic competition in the USA in the third quarter of 2011.
Vaccines turnover
Metabolic
2011 2010 Growth Growth
Metabolic sales decreased 49% to £0.3 billion, primarily reflecting £m £m CER% £%
the loss of sales of Avandia. In addition, sales of Boniva were Vaccines sales 3,497 4,326 (19) (19)
negatively impacted by the termination of co-promotion
Vaccines
agreements in certain European countries.
The loss of flu pandemic vaccine sales in the year resulted in a
Anti-bacterials decline in reported vaccines sales of 19% to £3.5 billion. Excluding
the effect of the flu pandemic vaccine sales, underlying sales grew
Anti-bacterial sales grew 1% to £1.4 billion with growth in the
by 11% reflecting the growth of Cervarix, Synflorix and Rotarix partly
category led by sales of Augmentin in Emerging Markets (up 11%
offset by lower sales of the Hepatitis franchise and Infanrix and the to £311 million). The category was held back by austerity price cuts
impact of changes to the Pharmacopeia in China.
and the mild flu season in the northern hemisphere.
Oncology and emesis Consumer Healthcare turnover
Oncology and emesis sales increased 2% to £0.7 billion reflecting 2011 2010 Growth*
strong growth from new products Votrient, Promacta/Revolade and £m £m CER% £%
Arzerra which together more than doubled to £219 million, partly Total wellness 2,278 2,202 4 3
offset by generic competition to older products. Oral care 1,711 1,596 7 7
Ongoing launches of Promacta/Revolade continued throughout Nutrition 1,025 953 10 8
2011 as sales outside the USA grew from £6 million in 2010 to Skin health 261 342 (23) (24)
£43 million in 2011. Sales in the USA grew 36% to £32 million. 5,275 5,093 5 4
The strong performances of the new oncology products were partly Consumer Healthcare sales grew 5% to £5.3 billion compared with
offset by the impact of generic competition in the USA to Hycamtin an estimated market growth of 4% (for markets where we compete).
which was down 92%, and the continued decline of Zofran, which The net impact of acquisitions and disposals was not significant.
fell 12% to £83 million. Excluding the OTC brands targeted for divestment, Consumer
Healthcare sales grew approximately 7%. The disposal of the North
Dermatology
American OTC brands was completed in January 2012.
Dermatology sales grew 8% to £0.9 billion as growth in Emerging
Total wellness
Markets (which is benefiting from ongoing launches of Stiefel
products in new markets) offset the impact of price cuts in Europe Total wellness sales increased 4% at £ 2.3 billion with strong growth
and generic competition to Evoclin in the USA. in several sub-categories, offset by a decline in alli. The Panadol
franchise registered growth of 7% and in gastrointestinal care, the
Rare diseases
core brands Tums and Eno were up 17% and 15%, respectively.
Sales grew 12% to £0.5 billion, with the majority of the growth
Oral care
coming from Volibris, where sales more than doubled to £97 million.
Oral care sales increased 7% to £1.7 billion, again led by Sensodyne,
Immuno-inflammation
which continued to benefit from the successful launch of Repair &
Benlysta was launched in the year in the USA and Germany and Protect and the ongoing geographic expansion of the Pronamel Acid
recorded turnover of £15 million. Erosion business.
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) Nutrition
ViiV Healthcare sales grew 1% to £1.6 billion, with USA up 4%, Europe Nutrition grew by 10% to £1.0 billion led by strong growth in Horlicks
down 3%, Emerging Markets up 9% and Rest of World down 4%. combined with the inclusion of Maxinutrition from February 2011.
Growth was primarily driven by Epzicom/Kivexa (up 12% to £617 million) Nutrition growth excluding Maxinutrition was 7%.
and Selzentry (up 39% to £110 million), partly offset by a decline in the
Skin health
mature portfolio (down 8% to £842 million).
The Epzicom/Kivexa sales growth was driven by strong performance Skin health sales declined 23% to £0.3 billion.
in the USA and Europe. In the USA sales of Epzicom were
£230 million, up 14%, reflecting a relatively equal mix of volume
and price growth. The volume growth in Europe benefited from
an improved positioning in regional and local guidelines. Kivexa
continued to grow in Japan and Mexico and a number of
developing markets in Asia Pacific.74 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Core results Net finance costs
The definition of core results is set out on page 56. The
2011 2010
reconciliation of total results to core results is presented on page 75. Finance income £m £m
Interest and other income 90 103
2011 2010 Growth
Fair value movements – 13
% of % of
90 116
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
Turnover 27,387 100 28,392 100 (3) (4)
Finance expense
Cost of sales (7,259) (26.5) (7,405) (26.1) (2) (2)
Interest expense (744) (767)
Selling, general
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (10) (18)
and administration (7,956) (29.1) (8,081) (28.5) (1) (2)
Remeasurements and fair value movements (23) (18)
Research and
Other finance expense (20) (25)
development (3,678) (13.4) (3,705) (13.0) 1 (1)
(797) (828)
Royalty income 309 1.1 296 1.0 5 5
Core operating profit 8,803 32.1 9,497 33.4 (6) (7) Net finance expense fell slightly to £707 million from £712 million in
Net finance costs (707) (712) 2010. This reflected relatively stable levels of net debt as the Group’s
Share of after tax strong cash generation funded share repurchases of £2.2 billion and
profits of associates increased dividend payments.
and joint ventures 15 81
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
Core profit before tax 8,111 8,866 (8) (9)
Taxation (2,104) (2,266) The share of after tax profits of associates of £15 million
Core profit after tax 6,007 6,600 (8) (9) (2010 – £81 million) arose principally from the Group’s holding in
Core profit attributable Aspen Pharmacare. The decline in 2011 reflected the disposal of
to shareholders 5,810 6,381 the share in Quest Diagnostics in February 2011.
Core earnings per share115.5p 125.5p (7) (8)
Profit before taxation
Cost of sales Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profits of associates,
core profit before taxation was £8,111 million compared with £8,866
Core cost of sales increased to 26.5% of turnover (2010 – 26.1%).
million in 2010, a 8% CER decline and a 9% decline in sterling terms.
This reflected the impact of the reduction of higher margin sales of
pandemic related products, Avandia and Valtrex, together with the
Taxation
effect of regional mix and the impact of US healthcare reform and
European austerity price cuts. These adverse impacts were partially Tax on core profit amounted to £2,104 million and represented an
offset by lower inventory write-offs and greater savings from the effective core tax rate of 25.9% (2010 – 25.6%).
Operational Excellence programme.
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for
Selling, general and administration the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and not
yet agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters
Core SG&A costs decreased by 1%, but were 29.1% of turnover may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
compared with 28.5% in 2010. This reflected the impact of the outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation.
reduction in sales of pandemic related products, Avandia and
Valtrex, the US healthcare reform levy of £100 million and Earnings per share
continuing investment in growth businesses and new product
Core earnings per share of 115.5 pence was down 7% in CER terms
launches, partly offset by ongoing cost savings.
and 8% at actual rates. The currency impact reflected the
Advertising and promotion declined 5%, selling and distribution strengthening of Sterling against the US dollar, partially offset by
declined 1% and general and administration increased 4%. the weakening of Sterling against the Japanese Yen.
Research and development Dividend
Core R&D expenditure increased 1% to £3,678 million (13.4% The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend
of turnover) compared with £3,705 million in 2010 (13.0% of for the year of 70 pence, a 5 pence increase on the 65 pence per
turnover). The increase reflected investment in the late-stage share for 2010. The Board has also declared a supplemental interim
pipeline partly offset by efficiency savings. dividend of 5 pence per share related to the disposal of certain
non-core OTC brands in North America, which was completed on
Core operating profit 31 January 2012, to be paid at the same time as the fourth interim
dividend. See Note 16 ‘Dividends’ on page 163.
Core operating profit was £8,803 million, a 6% decrease in CER
terms over 2010.GSK Annual Report 2012 75
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2011
Other Total
Core Intangible Intangible Major Legal operating results
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges income (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,387 27,387
Cost of sales (7,259) (304) (12) (73) (7,648)
Gross profit 20,128 (304) (12) (73) 19,739
Selling, general and administration (7,956) (397) (157) (8,510)
Research and development (3,678) (137) (97) (97) (4,009)
Royalty income 309 309
Other operating income (23) 301 278
Operating profit 8,803 (441) (109) (590) (157) 301 7,807
Net finance costs (707) (2) (709)
Profit on disposal of interests
in associates – 585 585
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 15 15
Profit before taxation 8,111 (441) (109) (592) (157) 886 7,698
Taxation (2,104) 137 41 114 22 (450) (2,240)
Tax rate % 25.9% 29.1%
Profit after taxation 6,007 (304) (68) (478) (135) 436 5,458
Profit attributable to
non-controlling interests 197 197
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,810 (304) (68) (478) (135) 436 5,261
Earnings per share 115.5p (6.0)p (1.4)p (9.5)p (2.7)p 8.7p 104.6p
Weighted average number of
shares (millions) 5,028 5,028
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2010
Other Total
Core Intangible Intangible Major Legal operating results
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges income (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 28,392 28,392
Cost of sales (7,405) (295) (11) (187) (7,898)
Gross profit 20,987 (295) (11) (187) 20,494
Selling, general and administration (8,081) (665) (4,001) (12,747)
Research and development (3,705) (133) (126) (493) (4,457)
Royalty income 296 296
Other operating income 197 197
Operating profit 9,497 (428) (137) (1,345) (4,001) 197 3,783
Net finance costs (712) (3) (715)
Profit on disposal of interests
in associates 8 8
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 81 81
Profit before taxation 8,866 (428) (137) (1,348) (4,001) 205 3,157
Taxation (2,266) 136 39 240 600 (53) (1,304)
Tax rate % 25.6% 41.3%
Profit after taxation 6,600 (292) (98) (1,108) (3,401) 152 1,853
Profit attributable to
non-controlling interests 219 219
Profit attributable to shareholders 6,381 (292) (98) (1,108) (3,401) 152 1,634
Earnings per share 125.5p (5.7)p (1.9)p (21.8)p (66.9)p 2.9p 32.1p
Weighted average number of
shares (millions) 5,085 5,08576 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial review
Total results R&D expenditure decreased 9% to £4,009 million (14.6% of
turnover) compared with £4,457 million in 2010 (15.7% of turnover),
2011 2010 Growth reflecting lower restructuring costs, efficiency savings and lower
(restated) % of (restated) % of intangible asset impairments, partly offset by increased investment
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% in the late-stage pipeline.
Turnover 27,387 100 28,392 100 (3) (4)
Cost of sales (7,648) (27.9) (7,898) (27.8) (3) (3) Other operating income
Selling, general
Other operating income was £278 million (2010 – £197 million)
and administration (8,510) (31.1) (12,747) (44.9) (33) (33)
primarily comprising profits on asset disposals of £355 million
Research and
(2010 – £244 million) partly offset by equity investment impairments
development (4,009) (14.6) (4,457) (15.7) (9) (10)
of £78 million (2010 – £65 million) and restructuring costs of
Royalty income 309 1.1 296 1.0
£23 million (2010 – £nil) associated with the proposed divestment
Other operating
of the non-core Consumer Healthcare brands.
income 278 1.0 197 0.7
Operating profit 7,807 28.5 3,783 13.3 >100 >100 Operating profit
Net finance cost (709) (715)
Operating profit for 2011 was £7,807 million, an increase of over
Profit on disposal of
100% in CER and sterling terms compared with 2010. Excluding
interest in associates 585 8
legal costs of £157 million (2010 – £4,001 million), operating profit
Share of after tax
was £7,964 million a 3% increase in CER terms (2% in sterling
profits of associates
terms) principally reflecting a 3% decline in turnover, lower cost of
and joint ventures 15 81 sales, lower R&D expenditure and higher other operating income.
Profit before taxation 7,698 3,157 >100 >100
Non-core items comprised intangible asset amortisation of
Taxation (2,240) (1,304)
£441 million (2010 – £428 million), intangible asset impairment
Profit after taxation
of £109 million (2010 – £137 million), major restructuring costs
for the year 5,458 1,853 >100 >100
of £590 million (2010 – £1,345 million), legal costs of £157 million
Total profit attributable
(2010 – £4,001 million) and other operating income of £301 million
to shareholders 5,261 1,634
(2010 – £197 million).
Earnings per share (p) 104.6 32.1 >100 >100
Earnings per ADS (US$) 3.37 1.00 Net finance costs
Cost of sales
2011 2010
Finance income £m £m
Cost of sales increased to 27.9% of turnover (2010 – 27.8%).
Interest and other finance income 90 103
This reflected the impact of the reduction of higher margin sales of
Fair value movements – 13
pandemic related products, Avandia and Valtrex, together with the
90 116
effect of regional mix and the impact of US healthcare reform and
European austerity price cuts. These adverse impacts were partially
Finance expense
offset by lower restructuring costs, lower inventory write-offs and
Interest expense (744) (767)
greater savings from the Operational Excellence programme.
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (12) (18)
Selling, general and administration Remeasurements and fair value movements (23) (21)
Other finance expense (20) (25)
SG&A costs decreased 33% and were 31.1% of turnover compared
(799) (831)
with 44.9% in 2010. Legal costs of £157 million (2010 – £4,001
million) primarily arose from additional charges in the year for Net finance expense fell slightly to £709 million from £715 million in
product liability cases regarding Paxil, Poligrip and other products 2010. This reflected relatively stable levels of net debt as the Group’s
and various government investigations and reflect the best strong cash generation funded share repurchases of £2.2 billion and
estimates of the additional amounts expected to be necessary to increased dividend payments. Profit on disposal of interest in
resolve those disputes. Excluding legal costs, SG&A costs were associates
30.5% of turnover, 0.3 percentage points lower than in 2010.
Profit on disposal of interest in associates
This reflected lower restructuring charges and ongoing cost savings,
including from the Operational Excellence programme, partly offset The pre-tax profit on the disposal of interests in associates was
by the impact of the reduction in sales of pandemic related £585 million (£246 million after tax), primarily reflecting the
products, Avandia and Valtrex, the US healthcare reform levy disposal of the remaining shares in Quest Diagnostics.
of £100 million and continuing investment in growth businesses
and new product launches. Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
Advertising and promotion declined 5%, selling and distribution The share of after tax profits of associates of £15 million
declined 7% and general and administration excluding legal (2010 – £81 million) arose principally from the Group’s holding in
increased 2%. Collectively these items accounted for a 4% Aspen Pharmacare. The decline in 2011 reflected the disposal of
decline in SG&A before legal costs. the shares in Quest Diagnostics in February 2011.
Research and development Profit before taxation
We remain focused on delivering an improved return on our Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of interest
investment in R&D and sales contribution, reduced attrition and cost in associates and the share of profits of associates, total profit before
reduction are all important drivers of an improving internal rate of taxation was £7,698 million compared with £3,157 million in 2010.
return. R&D expenditure is not determined as a percentage of sales, The more than 100% increase in CER and sterling terms reflected
but instead capital is allocated using strict returns based criteria. the impact of lower legal charges in 2011.GSK Annual Report 2012 77
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Taxation Inventories
Inventory of £3,873 million has increased by £36 million during
2011 2010
£m £m the year. The increase reflects higher Vaccine stocks, partly offset
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 647 82 by initiatives to reduce manufacturing cycle times and reduce
Less double taxation relief (164) (156) stockholding days.
483 (74)
Trade and other receivables
Overseas taxation 1,603 1,496
Current taxation 2,086 1,422 Trade and other receivables of £5,576 million have decreased from
Deferred taxation 154 (118) 2010 reflecting specific actions taken to reduce overdue and other
Taxation on total profits 2,240 1,304 receivables as part of our initiative to reduce working capital.
The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to £2,240 million
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
and represented an effective tax rate of 29.1% (2010 – 41.3%).
We held current and non-current derivative financial instruments
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for
held at fair value of £177 million (2010 – £193 million) relating
the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and not
primarily to foreign exchange contracts which represent hedges
yet agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters
of inter-company loans, deposits and legal provisions, but are not
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
designated as accounting hedges.
outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation.
Trade and other payables
Earnings per share
Trade and other payables amounting to £7,359 million have
Total earnings per share was 104.6 pence for the year compared
increased from 2010, reflecting working capital initiatives to extend
with 32.1 pence in 2010. Non-core charges totalled 10.9 pence
supplier terms towards our 60-day term objective.
(2010 – 93.4 pence) and included legal charges of £157 million
(2.7 pence) (2010 – £4,001 million, 66.9 pence) in the year. Provisions
Financial position and resources We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
non-current provisions of £4,456 million at 31 December 2011
Property, plant and equipment (2010 – £5,991 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities, of
which £2,772 million (2010 – £4,000 million) related to legal and
The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at other disputes. Provision has been made for legal and other
31 December 2011 was £18,832 million, with a net book value disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities, employee related liabilities
of £8,748 million. Of this, land and buildings represented and the costs of restructuring programmes to the extent that at the
£3,817 million, plant and equipment £2,905 million and assets in balance sheet date a legal or constructive obligation existed and
construction £2,026 million. In 2011, we invested £1,061 million in could be reliably estimated.
new and renewal property, plant and equipment. At 31 December
2011, we had capital contractual commitments for future expenditure Net debt
of £504 million and operating lease commitments of £354 million.
Net debt increased by £144 million to £9,003 million, as free cash
Goodwill flow and asset disposal proceeds largely funded dividends to
shareholders and share repurchases.
Goodwill increased during the year to £3,754 million at
31 December 2011 from £3,606 million. The increase primarily Total equity
reflects the goodwill arising on the acquisition of Maxinutrition
At 31 December 2011, total equity had decreased from £9,745
Group Holdings Limited of £114 million, partly offset by a weakening
million at 31 December 2010 to £8,827 million. The decrease arose
of overseas currencies.
principally from share repurchases in the year.
Other intangible assets
Cash flow
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from
The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid was
third parties and computer software. The net book value of other
£6,250 million, a decrease of £547 million in sterling terms
intangible assets as at 31 December 2011 was £7,802 million
compared with 2010.
(2010 – £8,532 million). The decrease in 2011 reflected amortisation
and impairment of existing intangibles partly offset by additions of The net cash outflow from investing activities was £112 million,
£363 million through business combinations and other additions. £1,756 million lower than 2010, which primarily reflected the
proceeds from the disposal of our shareholding in Quest Diagnostics
Investments
Inc. and lower purchases of intangible assets during the year of
We held investments, including associates and joint ventures, £405 million (2010 – £621 million).
with a carrying value at 31 December 2011 of £1,150 million
Capital expenditure and financial investment
(2010 – £1,792 million). The market value at 31 December 2011
was £1,355 million (2010 – £2,688 million). Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
to £1,328 million (2010 – £1,635 million). Disposals realised
Derivative financial instruments: assets
£337 million (2010 – £218 million). Cash payments to acquire equity
We had both non-current and current derivative financial instruments investments of £76 million (2010 – £279 million) were made in
held at fair value of £155 million (2010 – £190 million). The majority the year and sales of equity investments realised £68 million
of this amount relates to interest rate swaps and foreign exchange (2010 – £27 million).
contracts designated as accounting hedges.78 GSK Annual Report 2012
Risk factors
Principal risk factors and uncertainties
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations that may affect the Group’s
performance and ability to achieve its objectives. The factors below are among those that the Group believes could cause its actual results
to differ materially from expected and historical results. There are other risks and uncertainties that may affect the Group’s performance and
ability to achieve its objectives that are not currently known to the Group, or which are deemed immaterial.
The Group reviews and assesses significant risks on a regular basis and has implemented an oversight programme to help ensure that there is
a system of internal controls in place. This system includes policies and procedures, communication and training programmes, supervision and
monitoring and processes for escalating issues to the appropriate level of senior management. Such a system helps facilitate the Group’s ability
to respond appropriately to risks and to achieve Group objectives and helps ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and internal
policies. In addition, the Group’s Audit & Assurance function is responsible for independently assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the
management of significant risks and reporting outcomes to business management, the Risk Oversight & Compliance Council, and the Audit &
Risk Committee as necessary. The Group’s management of risks is further discussed on pages 100 to 102 ‘Corporate Governance’.
The principal risks and uncertainties that might affect the Group’s business are identified below. United Kingdom regulations require a
discussion of mitigating activities a company takes to address these risks and uncertainties. However, it is not possible for the Group to
implement controls to respond to all the risks that it may face, and complete assurance cannot be provided that the steps the Group has
taken to address certain risks, including those listed below under “Mitigating activities include,” will manage these risks effectively or at all.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties are not listed in order of significance.
Delivering commercially successful new products Mitigating activities include
Risk description: Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially The Group has changed the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines R&D
organisation in recent years in an attempt to deliver a large and
successful new products
diverse late-stage pipeline and a discovery organisation structure
The Group operates in highly competitive markets. In the that can sustain a flow of innovative new medicines and vaccines.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses, it faces competition To do this, the Group has evolved from our traditional hierarchical
from proprietary products of large, international manufacturers Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines R&D business model to an R&D
and from producers of generic pharmaceuticals. The Pharmaceuticals business model based on smaller units in an attempt to encourage
and Vaccines businesses also face increasing competition from greater entrepreneurialism and accountability for our scientists,
manufacturers in emerging markets, with a lower cost manufacturing which the Group believes will create an environment that will be more
base than that of the Group. Significant product innovations, technical conducive to the development of commercially viable new products
advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors and the development of additional uses for existing products.
may materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results. The
In addition, the Group plans to continue collaborating with partners
Group cannot always predict the timing or impact of competitive
in academia, biotechnology companies and other pharmaceutical
products or their potential impact on sales of the Group’s products.
companies, which the Group believes can both improve our ability
In light of the competitive environment in which the Group operates,
to develop competitive products and decrease the amount of time it
continued development of commercially viable new products as well
takes to do so. The Group is also increasing consultation with patients
as the development of additional uses for existing products is critical
and payers to ensure the medicines it develops provide improvements
to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that decline
that healthcare systems will value and reward.
upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
The Group reviews both product development and external
Developing new pharmaceutical and vaccine products is a costly,
collaborations through a series of formal governance committees.
lengthy and uncertain process. A new product candidate can fail
These committees progressively evaluate both the scientific and
at any stage of the development process, and one or more late
financial considerations for a product as well as the potential
stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval.
benefits/risks associated with the continued development of the
New product candidates may appear promising in development
assets. These committees include R&D executives as well as medical,
but, after significant investment of Group economic and human
scientific and commercial specialists for relevant therapy and
resources, may fail to reach the market or may have only limited
business areas.
commercial success. This could be, for example, as a result of
efficacy or safety concerns, an inability to obtain necessary regulatory Protecting intellectual property rights
approvals, difficulty manufacturing or excessive manufacturing costs,
erosion of patent coverage as a result of a lengthy development Risk description: Risks of failing to secure and protect
period, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights intellectual property rights
of others or an inability to differentiate the product adequately from
those with which it competes. Failure to obtain effective intellectual property protection
Furthermore, health authorities have increased their focus on safety for our products.
and product differentiation when assessing the benefit/risk balance of As an innovator Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
drugs, which has made it more difficult for pharmaceutical and vaccine company, the Group seeks to obtain appropriate intellectual property
products to gain regulatory approval. There is also increasing pressure protection for our products. Our ability to obtain and enforce patents
on healthcare budgets as a result of the financial crisis, the increase in and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is critical to
the average age of the population in developed markets, and the the Group’s business strategy and success.
increase in the absolute population in developing markets. Payers, In a number of markets in which the Group operates, the intellectual
therefore, increasingly have demanded greater incremental benefit property laws and patent offices are still developing, and some
from pharmaceutical and vaccine products before agreeing to markets may be unwilling to extend intellectual property protection
reimburse drug manufacturers at prices manufacturers consider to innovative products in a fashion similar to markets in more
appropriate. A failure to develop commercially successful products developed regions such as the EU, Japan and the USA or to enforce
or to develop additional uses for existing products for any of previously granted intellectual property rights.
these reasons could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
financial results.GSK Annual Report 2012 79
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
& remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
The Group’s inability to obtain and enforce effective intellectual Regulations outlining the requirements for establishing biosimilars and
property protection for our products in certain markets could have interchangeable products, as well as the operation of complicated
a material adverse result on the Group’s financial results. patent litigation provisions, have not yet been proposed by the FDA,
although the FDA currently is implementing the biosimilar pathway
In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent
without such regulations, based on the statute and guidance
protection and data exclusivity may be significantly weaker than in
documents. In Europe, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) has
the USA or the EU. Some developing countries have reduced, or
finalised guidelines for similar biological medicinal products containing
threatened to reduce, effective patent protection for pharmaceutical
monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Such new regulations for establishing
products generally, or in particular therapeutic areas, to facilitate
biosimilars and interchangeable products could allow for earlier
early competition within their markets from generic manufacturers.
competition for certain of the Group’s products.
Any loss of patent protection, including reducing the scope of patent
rights or compulsory licensing (in which a government forces a The loss of patent or data exclusivity protection for some or all of the
manufacturer to license its patents to a competitor), could materially Group’s products could have a material adverse impact on sales of
and adversely affect the Group’s financial results in those markets. the Group’s products.
Absence of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection could limit
the opportunity to rely on such markets for future sales growth for Mitigating activities include
the Group’s products.
The Group is supported by a global patents organisation within
the legal group whose focus is to seek to ensure and protect the
Expiry of intellectual property rights protection on the
intellectual property rights of the Group. Beginning in 2011 and
Group’s products and on competitive products; Competition
continuing through 2012, the Global Patents group sought to
from generic manufacturers. implement improvements to certain time-driven processes and
Pharmaceutical and vaccine products are usually only protected from controls in order to better manage its ability to obtain and maintain
being copied by generic manufacturers during the period of exclusivity patent protection for the Group’s key assets and to minimize risk of
provided by an issued patent or related intellectual property rights invalidity or unenforceability of its patents. These processes relate to
such as Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status. Following (1) implementing a new review process designed to help with
expiry of intellectual property rights protection, a generic obtaining and maintaining appropriate patent protection for key
manufacturer may produce a generic version of the product. assets; (2) identifying opportunities for and obtaining patent term
The Group faces intense competition from manufacturers of generic extensions; (3) ensuring timely payment of required renewal fees;
pharmaceutical products in all of its major markets. Introduction of and (4) ensuring appropriate listing of patents in the Orange Book.
generic products, particularly in the USA where the Group has its The enhanced processes seek to ensure that all key patent applications
highest turnover and margins, typically leads to a dramatic loss of are reviewed by senior management prior to worldwide filing and
sales and reduces the Group’s revenues and margins for its proprietary prior to grant and that senior management approval is obtained
products. The Group had 10 pharmaceutical and vaccine products with prior to listing of patents in the Orange Book or the initiation of
over £500 million in annual global sales in 2012. For certain of these Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation. In addition,
products, there is generic competition in the USA and some markets the Group has initiated a post approval patent review process to
in Europe. ensure ongoing review of the quality of patents after grant.
The timing and impact of entry in the USA and major markets in The Global Patents group maintains internal litigation processes
Europe for a ‘follow-on’ product to Seretide/Advair that contains the designed to ensure successful enforcement and defence of patents
same active ingredients is uncertain. The US patent for compositions with the goal of maintaining exclusive rights to market major
containing the combination of active substances in Seretide/Advair products.
expired during 2010. The Group has not been notified of any
acceptance by the US Food & Drug Administration (FDA) of an The Global Patents group monitors new developments in patent law
application for a ‘follow-on’ product that refers to Seretide/Advair in the major markets in which the Group operates to seek to ensure
and contains the same active ingredients and is not able to predict appropriate protection of the Group’s assets. The Group (sometimes
when this may occur or when any such ‘follow-on’ product may acting through trade associations) works with local governments to
enter the US market. seek to secure effective and balanced intellectual property protection
designed to meet the needs of patients and payers while supporting
Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to market long-term investment in innovation.
generic versions of many of the Group’s most important products
prior to the expiration of the Group’s patents. Their efforts may Ensuring product quality
involve challenges to the validity or enforceability of a Group patent
or assertions that their generic product does not infringe the Group’s Risk description: Risk to the patient or consumer as a result
patents. If the Group is not successful in defending an attack on its of the failure by GSK, its contractors or suppliers to comply
patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of its with good manufacturing practice regulations in commercial
major products, particularly in the USA and Europe, the Group’s manufacturing or through inadequate governance of quality
financial results would be adversely affected. The expiration dates for through product development
patents for the Group’s major products and a description of litigation
settlements which may affect the dates on which generic versions of Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality of
the Group’s products may be introduced are set out on pages 229 our products at the point of use. A failure to ensure product quality
to 230. Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set out in is an enterprise risk which is applicable across all of the Group.
Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching implications
The Group may also experience an impact on sales of one of its in terms of the health of our patients and customers, reputation,
products due to the expiry or loss of patent protection for a product regulatory, legal, and financial consequences for the Group.
marketed by a competitor in a similar product class or for treatment
of a similar disease condition. The availability of generic products in
the same or similar product class in which one of the Group’s
products competes could have a material adverse impact on sales
of the Group’s products.80 GSK Annual Report 2012
Risk factors
Product quality may be influenced by many factors including Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are necessary
product and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing for the commercial production of our products, including specialty
components, compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice chemicals, commodities and components necessary for the manufacture
(cGMP), accuracy of labelling, reliability and security of the supply and packaging of many of the Group’s pharmaceutical, vaccine and
chain, and the embodiment of an overarching quality culture. consumer healthcare products. Some of the third-party services
The internal and external environment continues to evolve as new procured, for example, services provided by clinical research
products, new markets and new legislation are introduced. Particular organisations to support development of key products, are very
attention is currently being focused on global supply. In the EU, the important to the operation of the Group’s businesses. Although the
new Falsified Medicines Directive is focused on security of supply. Group undertakes business continuity planning, single sourcing for
In the USA, the passage of the Food Drug and Administration Safety certain components, bulk active materials, finished products, and
and Innovation Act (FDASIA) will focus attention on reducing current services creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory
levels of drug shortages in the marketplace, and new cGMP legislation non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites.
is being introduced in many emerging markets including China and The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers or
Brazil. On the inspection front, pharmaceutical inspectors are service providers to fulfil their contractual obligations in a timely manner
increasingly looking for global application of corrective actions or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the
beyond the original site of inspection. manufacturing sites may result in delays or service interruptions, which
may materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
Mitigating activities include
Mitigating activities include
The Group has adopted a single Quality Management System (QMS)
that defines Corporate quality standards and systems for the business Our supply chain model is designed to help ensure the supply, quality
units associated with Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare and security of the Group’s products globally, and the Group closely
products, vaccines and R&D investigational materials. The QMS has monitors the delivery of our products with the intent of ensuring that
a broad scope, covering the end to end supply chain from starting our customers have the medicines and products they need.
materials to distributed product, and is applicable throughout the
Safety stocks and backup supply arrangements for high revenue and
complete life cycle of products from R&D to mature commercial
critical products are in place to help mitigate this risk. In addition, the
supply.
standing of manufacturing external suppliers is also routinely
The QMS is periodically updated based on experience, new regulation monitored in order to identify and manage supply base risks.
and improved scientific understanding to seek to ensure operations
Where practical, dependencies on single sources of critical items
comply with cGMP requirements globally, and supports the delivery
are removed.
of consistent and reliable products.
A large network of Quality and Compliance professionals are aligned Securing adequate pricing and reimbursement
with each business unit to provide oversight and assist the delivery
Risk description: Risk that the Group may fail to secure
of quality performance and operational compliance. Management
adequate pricing/reimbursement for its products or existing
oversight of those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of
Quality Council Meetings. Staff are trained to seek to assure that regimes of pricing laws and regulations become more
standards, as well as expected behaviours based on the Group’s unfavourable
values, are followed.
Pharmaceutical and vaccine products are subject to price controls or
The Group’s Chief Product Quality Officer oversees the activities of pressures and other restrictions in many markets, around the world.
the GSK Quality Council which serves as a forum to escalate emerging Some governments intervene directly in setting prices. In addition,
risks, share experiences of handling quality issues from all business in some markets, major purchasers of pharmaceutical or vaccine
units and ensure that the learnings are assessed and deployed across products (whether governmental agencies or private health care
the Group. providers) have the economic power to exert substantial pressure
on prices or the terms of access to formularies. Difficult economic
The Group has implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and
conditions, particularly in the major markets in Europe, could increase
managing its third-party suppliers that provide materials used in
the pricing pressures on the Group’s pharmaceutical and vaccine
finished products. Contract manufacturers making Group products
products. The Group cannot accurately predict whether existing
are audited to help assure expected standards are met.
controls, pressures or restrictions will increase or whether new
Maintaining product supply controls, pressures or restrictions will be introduced. Such measures
may materially and adversely affect the Group’s ability to introduce
Risk description: Risk of interruption of product supply new products profitably and its financial results.
The manufacture of pharmaceutical and vaccine products and their In the USA, where the Group has its highest margins and the most
constituent materials requires compliance with good manufacturing sales of any country, there are no direct government price controls
practice regulations. The Group’s manufacturing sites are subject to over private sector purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical
review and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs to be
Compliance failure by the Group’s manufacturing facilities or by eligible for reimbursement under several state and federal healthcare
suppliers of key services and materials could lead to product recalls programmes, primarily Medicare and Medicaid. Pricing pressures are
and seizures, interruption of production, delays in the approval of new likely to increase as the US Government’s share of national health
products, and revoking of license to operate pending resolution of spending continues to increase.
manufacturing issues. For example, non-compliance with cGMP
Additionally, due to passage of comprehensive health care reform
requirements for US supply could ultimately result, in the most severe
in 2010, the US Government’s role in providing or subsidising health
circumstances, in fines and disgorgement of profits. Any interruption
insurance is expected to significantly expand in 2014, which indicates
of supply or the incurring of fines or disgorgement impacting
the growing role and leverage the government will bring to bear on
significant products or markets could materially and adversely affect the Group’s rebate liability with respect to US federal programs.
the Group’s financial results.GSK Annual Report 2012 81
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
As part of ongoing deficit reduction discussions in the USA, the Compliance with relevant laws and regulations
Obama administration recently has suggested that pharmaceutical
manufacturers be required to offer federally mandated rebates to the Risk description: Risks arising from non-compliance with
government on drugs for people who are elderly and disabled and laws and regulations affecting the Group
who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid (known as ‘dual
The Group operates on a global basis and must comply with a
eligibles’). These individuals currently receive drug benefits through
broad range of laws and regulatory controls on the development,
Medicare Part D. A manufacturer’s Medicare Part D rebates are
manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution and marketing of many
negotiated with health plans and typically are lower than the federally
of its pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare products that
mandated Medicaid rebates. If legislation passes requiring
affect not only the cost of product development but also the time
manufacturers to pay mandated Medicaid level rebates for the dual
required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing
eligibles, there would be a significant additional rebate liability for
so. The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory
pharmaceutical companies such as the Group.
environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
In recent years, a number of states have also proposed or
As those rules and regulations change or as governmental
implemented various schemes to control the pharmacy budget for
interpretation of those rules and regulations evolve, the potential
drugs used by their low-income and senior citizens’ programmes,
exists for conduct of the Group to be called into question.
including increasing the rebate liability of pharmaceutical companies,
importation from other countries and bulk purchases of drugs. Historically, there have been more stringent regulatory requirements
in developed markets. However, in recent years, emerging markets
Given the possible expansion of Medicaid under the US health care
have been increasing their regulatory expectations based on their own reform law and the economic pressures on state government
national interpretations of US and EU standards. Stricter regulatory
budgets, pricing pressures on the Group’s pharmaceutical and vaccine
controls heighten the risk of changes in product profile or withdrawal
products are likely to increase. Any of these trends may materially
by regulators on the basis of post-approval concerns over product
and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
safety, which could reduce revenues and result in product recalls and
Mitigating activities include product liability lawsuits. There is also greater regulatory scrutiny,
especially in the USA, on advertising and promotion and in particular
The Group’s effort to improve reimbursement evidence for on direct-to-consumer advertising.
development assets is designed to help defend our future innovation.
More clearly demonstrating the value our medicines and vaccines Furthermore, interaction and exchange of information between the
provide to patients, providers and payers using relevant comparators, Group and external communities in order to advance scientific and
meaningful endpoints and targeted patient populations will help to medical understanding may be, or may be perceived to be,
support appropriate price levels and formulary access. promotional in intent by regulators, potentially resulting in a loss of
credibility with authorities, prescribers, and patients. Such an
The Group communicates with governments to reinforce their interpretation could result in a regulatory action or a government
awareness of the value of medicines, and also works with national investigation which could have far-reaching effects including
industry associations to reinforce these messages. In addition, the impacting product liability actions, the regulatory pathway for assets,
Group monitors the global economic environment to identify areas significant fines, exclusion from government programs, and even
with potential pricing pressure. The Group will continue to explore individual criminal liability.
different pricing models for innovative products and support more
modest pricing of older products. This provides an opportunity for Additionally, the development of the post-approval adverse event
new products to be reimbursed and rewards companies that invest profile for a product or the product class may materially and adversely
in R&D to meet unmet patient needs. affect the Group’s financial results.
Given the sustained shift witnessed in the European reimbursement The Group is also subject to laws of the USA, the EU and other
and pricing environment, the Group plans to initiate further jurisdictions regulating the export of its products to certain countries.
restructuring of our European Pharmaceuticals business to reduce For instance, Iran is subject to wide-ranging sanctions under the laws
costs, improve efficiencies and reallocate resources to support of the USA, the EU, and other jurisdictions. The Group has exported
identified growth opportunities in these markets. As the Group certain pharmaceutical and vaccine products from its Pharmaceuticals
reduces its European cost base, the Group is also evaluating further and Vaccines businesses, and certain healthcare products including
strategic options to ensure the development of new capabilities and over-the counter-medicines and medical devices from its Consumer
the ability to maximise the value of the Group’s current and future Healthcare business, to Iran via sales by non-US entities to three
portfolio in this region. This initiative is expected to progress in 2013. privately held Iranian distributors. US law requires specific disclosure
This additional restructuring supports our strategy to change the of certain dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with
shape of our business and deliver sustainable long-term growth. In government-owned entities and entities sanctioned for activities
the short term, it will also help to offset some of the pressure the related to terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Group is seeing on our margin structure resulting from changes in We do not believe that our Iranian distributors fall within any of the
our business mix. relevant categories. The Group also does business, via non-US entities,
in other jurisdictions targeted by sanctions laws, including Cuba,
In selected developed markets, the Group has engaged in new Syria, and Sudan. Failure to comply with these laws could expose the
reimbursement approaches for our medicines, where the Group Group to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, prosecution, the
agrees to outcomes-based risk-sharing arrangements with payers. imposition of export or economic sanctions against the Group and
From a policy and advocacy perspective, the Group works with our reputational damage, all of which could materially and adversely
trade associations to help support government adoption of policies affect the Group’s financial results.
that are fair, balanced, transparent, and that do not unfairly impact
innovative pharmaceutical companies.82 GSK Annual Report 2012
Risk factors
Mitigating activities include Changing global political and economic conditions
The Group’s internal control framework is designed to help ensure Risk description: Risk of exposure to various external political
we adhere to legal and regulatory requirements. While significant
and economic conditions, as well as natural disaster that
work has been accomplished to strengthen the Group’s compliance
may impact the Group’s performance and ability to achieve
programme, the Group continuously evaluates and enhances it based
its objectives
on changes to the healthcare marketplace, changes to the Group’s
commercial model, guidance by governmental agencies, and Many of the world’s largest economies, including the major markets
requirements set out by the Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) in which the Group operates, and financial institutions have recently
entered into in 2012 to which the Group is subject. faced extreme financial difficulty, including a decline in asset prices,
liquidity problems and limited availability of credit. In addition, the
The Group has implemented numerous mechanisms to support our
Group operates across a wide range of markets and these markets
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. The following
have the potential to encounter natural disasters that could impact
represent some examples of these mechanisms.
business operations.
The Group’s Chief Regulatory Officer oversees the activities of the
The economic uncertainty of 2011 continued into 2012, particularly
Regulatory Governance Board which includes promoting compliance
in Europe. It is uncertain how long these effects will last, or whether
with regulatory requirements and companywide standards, making
economic and financial trends will worsen or improve. The austerity
regulatory services more efficient and agile, and further aligning
measures in certain countries in Europe have increased pressures on
regulatory capabilities with business needs at global and local levels.
the payers in those countries to force healthcare companies such as
The Medical Governance Executive Committee, accountable to the the Group to decrease the price of its products. The debt crisis has
Chief Medical Officer, oversees the system of principles, policies given rise to concerns that some countries may not be able to pay for
and accountabilities to help ensure the Group applies the generally our products. Current economic conditions may also adversely affect
recognized principles of good medical science, integrity and ethics to the ability of our distributors, customers, suppliers and service
the discovery, development and marketing of products. This includes providers to pay for our products, or otherwise to buy necessary
reinforcing the Group’s commitment to respecting a clear distinction inventory or raw materials, and to perform their obligations under
between scientific engagement on the one hand, and product agreements with the Group, which could disrupt our operations,
promotion on the other. and negatively impact our business and cash flow. Some of our
distributors, customers, suppliers and service providers may be
The Group has implemented an above-country medical governance
unable to pay their bills in a timely manner, or may even become
risk management framework which covers relevant Group activities
insolvent, which could also negatively impact our business and results
and supports the development and implementation of appropriate
of operations. These risks may be elevated with respect to our
management controls for applicable policies, with a focus on ensuring
interactions with third parties with substantial operations in countries
patient safety. For additional mitigating activities related to the
where current economic conditions are the most severe, particularly
medical governance framework, please see the ‘Potential Litigation
where such third parties are themselves exposed to risk from business
and Government Investigations’ risk factor.
interactions directly with fiscally-challenged government payers.
With regards to sales and marketing activities, the Group has defined
Such continued economic weakness and uncertainty could materially
and communicated its expectations for pharmaceutical marketing and
and adversely affect the Group’s revenues, results of operations and
promotional activities in its global code of practice. The code sets the
financial condition. The Group’s businesses, including Pharmaceuticals,
minimum Group standard for these activities, but requires all activities to
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, may be particularly sensitive to
comply with applicable laws, regulations, and industry codes in effect.
declines in consumer or government spending. In addition, further or
In both the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare business units, renewed declines in asset prices may result in a lower return on the
the copy review process is used to review materials to help assure Group’s financial investments and may cause the value of the Group’s
those materials are accurate and fairly portray our products, including investments in its pension plans to decrease, requiring the Group to
ensuring that no off-label claims are made with respect to the Group’s increase its funding of those pension plans. See Note 28 to the
over the counter products. The legal group, as a member of certain financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’
US pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare committees, advises on for a discussion of the investment strategy and general pension
appropriate policies to help mitigate this risk in the USA. Working with overview.
the business and compliance groups, legal also undertakes a periodic
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest rates,
assessment of current sales and promotional activities.
foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other economic
With regards to the economic sanctions risk, the Group has factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of political unrest,
implemented a global policy and procedure that reflects the Group’s legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in
commitment to strict adherence to applicable sanctions and export which the Group operates.
control laws relevant to its business. The global policy requires each
business unit and global support function to perform appropriate risk Mitigating activities include
assessments. Following a review of its business with Iran, the Group
The extent of the Group’s portfolio and geographic footprint assist
has ceased sales of products from its Consumer Healthcare business
in mitigating our exposure to any specific localised risk to a certain
and intends to supply only products of high medical/public health
degree. External uncertainties are carefully considered when
need (as determined using criteria set by the World Health
developing strategy and reviewing performance.
Organization) from its Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses.
The Group has continued the conscious commercial decision to
maintain supply to countries with funding problems within agreed
limits on total receivables. The Group has designated a cross- business
team to specifically evaluate the European economic risk. That team
has developed response plans to different European economic events
to attempt to ensure preparedness and with the aim of reducing the
potential impact to the Group of such events.GSK Annual Report 2012 83
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Several mitigating steps have also been taken to attempt to reduce Compliance with financial reporting and disclosure
the Group’s financial exposure in certain key countries including requirements
exercising additional caution in counterparty exposures, taking
prudent balance sheet measures in relation to high risk countries, Risk description: Risk associated with financial reporting and
and proactively managing our short-term liquidity positions. For disclosure and changes to accounting standards
additional mitigating activities related to European prices pressures,
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations issued
please see the ‘Government Payers and Pricing’ risk factor.
from time to time by the International Accounting Standards Board
The Group has a formal Crisis and Continuity Management strategy could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense
and global policy and procedure that are managed centrally. The that may materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
strategy requires documentation of crisis and continuity plans and
Under International Financial Reporting Standards, changes in the
periodic review of those plans. The Crisis and Continuity Management
market valuation of certain financial instruments are required to be
team assists in critical crisis preparedness and response efforts globally
reflected in the Group’s reported results before those gains or losses
and incorporates lessons learned into the global strategy.
are actually realised. This could have a significant impact on the
Managing alliances and acquisitions income statement in any given period. Accounting for deferred
taxation on inter-company inventory may give rise to volatility
Risk description: Risks from alliances and acquisitions depending upon the Group entity that owns the inventory.
As part of the Group’s strategy to diversify into new product areas Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed
and markets, the Group has grown, and expects to continue to companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory
grow, in part through acquisitions and business alliances. There is requirements. The Group believes that it complies with the
intense competition for alliance and acquisition candidates in the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning its financial
pharmaceutical industry, and, as such, the Group may be unable to statements and disclosures. However, other companies have
make these deals on acceptable terms or at all. In acquiring or forming experienced investigations into potential non-compliance with
alliances with companies, the Group may assume significant debt, accounting and disclosure requirements that have resulted in
become subject to unknown or contingent liabilities or fail to realise restatements of previously reported results and sometimes significant
the benefits expected from these transactions. For example, most penalties. Any such investigation and required restatement could
pharmaceutical or biotech companies, including those that the Group materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
may consider acquiring, are involved in patent disputes, product
Mitigating activities include
liability litigation, government investigations and other legal
proceedings whose outcome is subject to considerable uncertainty.
The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify
The assumption of debt or unknown or contingent liabilities or the material errors. Management periodically tests the design and
failure to realise the expected benefits may materially and adversely operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls. This
affect the Group’s financial results. provides management with the assurance that controls have operated
effectively over key financial reporting and disclosure processes.
The process of integrating companies the Group may acquire may
result in disruption to the ongoing business as the effort of integrating The Group keeps up to date with the latest developments for financial
organisations in different locations and with, among other things, reporting requirements by working with the external auditor and
differing systems and corporate cultures may divert attention and other advisors to ensure adherence to relevant reporting
resources, result in the loss of key employees or have other adverse requirements.
consequences, any of which may materially and adversely affect the
There is a shared accountability for financial results across the Group.
Group’s financial results.
Financial results are reviewed and signed off by regions and then
reviewed with the Corporate Controller and the Chief Financial
Mitigating activities include
Officer (CFO). This allows both the Corporate Controller and the
The Group engages in significant due diligence prior to any alliance CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and to
or acquisition to assess the operational, financial and reputational evaluate performance to plan. Significant judgments are reviewed
risk that may result from any alliance or acquisition. Such diligence and confirmed by senior management.
includes documentary review and discussions with employees and
Compliance with tax law and managing treasury
representatives of collaborator companies. Group employees with
key roles in diligence are required to complete training prior to investments
working on any transactions.
Risk description: Risk that as the Group’s business models
Major transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed by various and tax law and practice change over time, the Group’s
management boards throughout the Group including, for instance,
existing tax policies and operating models are no longer
the Technology Investment Board, the Product Management Board,
appropriate, or that significant losses arise from treasury
the Corporate Executive Team and the Board.
investments
The contractual arrangements that the Group enters into include
The Group’s effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in jurisdictions
provisions to reduce or eliminate the Group’s financial exposure
that are both higher and lower than that applied in the UK. In from a particular transaction.
addition, many jurisdictions such as the UK, Belgium and the USA
Integration of acquired companies is managed by the Group’s currently offer regimes that encourage innovation and new scientific
Corporate Strategy group pursuant to specific standards, working endeavours by providing tax incentives, for example R&D tax credits,
with the responsible management for each business affected by and lower tax rates on income derived from patents.
the acquisition. An integration team is appointed for each company
acquisition to seek to ensure a smooth integration and minimise
disruption to the business. The integration team attempts to
ensure that the Group attains the maximum value that may be
generated from a deal, whilst ensuring that key risks are managed
in a timely manner.84 GSK Annual Report 2012
Risk factors
Furthermore, given the scale and international nature of the Group’s Compliance with anti-bribery and corruption
business, intra-group transfer pricing is an inherent tax risk as it is legislation
for other international businesses. Changes in tax laws or in their
application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, foreign Risk description: Risk of failing to create a corporate
dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax credits, taxation of environment opposed to corruption or failing to instil
intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief allowed on the business practices that prevent corruption and comply
interest on intra-group debt, could impact the Group’s effective tax with anti-corruption legislation
rate and materially and adversely affect its financial results.
The Group’s extensive and increasingly international operations may
The tax charge included in the financial statements is the Group’s
give rise to possible claims of bribery and corruption. The Group
best estimate of its tax liability, but until such time as audits by tax
operates in a number of markets where the corruption risk has been
authorities are concluded, there is a degree of uncertainty regarding
identified as high by groups such as Transparency International. Failure
the final tax liability for the period. The Group’s policy is to submit
to comply with applicable legislation such as the US Foreign Corrupt
tax returns within the statutory time limits and engage with tax
Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, or similar legislation in other
authorities to ensure that the Group’s tax affairs are as current as
countries, could expose the Group and senior officers to civil and
possible, and that any differences in the interpretation of tax
criminal sanction.
legislation and regulation are resolved as quickly as possible. In
exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement This could potentially include fines, prosecution, debarment from
with tax authorities, the Group may have to resolve disputes through public procurement and reputational damage, all of which could
formal appeals or other proceedings. For example, in October 2012, materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
the Supreme Court of Canada delivered its decision on an appeal in
Mitigating activities include
respect of the Group’s transfer pricing, as discussed in Note 14 to the
financial statements, ‘Taxation’. The Group, like other international The Group has implemented a global Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption
businesses, is also subject to a range of other duties and taxes for (ABAC) programme. The programme includes a global ABAC policy,
which it incurs similar types of risk. ongoing training, and detailed requirements in respect to third-party
The Group deals in high value transactions on a frequent basis which due diligence, contracting and oversight. In addition, the programme
may result in an increased risk of financial loss due to the has strengthened controls over interactions with Government Officials
mismanagement of cash or entering into high risk positions on hedge and when entering into business development transactions.
transactions, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Operational performance is reviewed by the Group’s ABAC Oversight
Group’s financial results. Committee.
A dedicated ABAC team is responsible for driving implementation of
Mitigating activities include
the programme and the design and execution of the ABAC audit
The Group monitors Government debate on tax policy in its key strategy and methodology. They are supported by an extended team
jurisdictions to deal proactively with any potential future changes of functional experts within the legal group, Compliance and Audit
in tax law. & Assurance. The ABAC team provides continued support to the
business through ongoing training and communication of guidance.
Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures to ensure
A community of experts meet to provide timely guidance to the
consistency and compliance with tax legislation. The Group engages
business on issues that they have escalated. The ABAC programme
advisors and legal counsel to review tax legislation and applicability
continues to evolve in response to the external environment, ongoing
to the Group. The Group has attempted to mitigate the risk of more
benchmarking and internal stakeholder feedback.
aggressive audits by being as up to date as possible with our tax
affairs and working in real time with tax authorities where possible. Potential litigation
The Group has undertaken a number of projects to move to a more
Risk description: Risk of substantial adverse outcome of
centralised and simplified intellectual property ownership and trading
litigation and government investigations
model. The new model centralises our pharmaceutical intellectual
property into the UK, reducing the complexity of our intercompany Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, contains a
arrangements and enabling us to drive more bilateral Advance discussion of material proceedings and governmental investigations
Pricing Agreements (‘APAs’) in the future between the UK and other currently involving the Group which, if proven, could give rise to civil
jurisdictions in which the Group operates. APAs give greater certainty and/or criminal liabilities. Unfavourable resolution of these and similar
to the application of transfer pricing and our direct tax affairs and future proceedings or investigations may have a material adverse
hence reduce the risks the Group faces. effect on the Group’s financial condition and results of operations.
As an example, in 2012, the Group entered into a settlement
The Treasury department does not act as a profit centre for the
agreement with the US federal government resulting in a payment
Group, which reduces the incentive to take risks in order to increase
of US$3 billion by the Group. The Group has made provisions
returns. The department strives to minimise risk and centralise
related to such legal proceedings and investigations, which have
financial transactions.
reduced its earnings.
Treasury risk is managed by a detailed set of Treasury policies that is
In the future, the Group may also make additional significant
reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis. The Group
provisions related to legal proceedings and investigations which
proactively monitors Treasury activities with the intent of identifying
would reduce its earnings. In many cases, the Group believes that it
exceptions to policy.
is the practice of the plaintiff bar to claim damages in amounts that
bear no reasonable relationship to the underlying harm allegedly
caused by the Group’s products or its actions. Accordingly, it may
be potentially misleading for the Group to quantify, based on the
amount of damages claimed, its potential exposure to claims,
proceedings and investigations of the type described in Note 44
to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.GSK Annual Report 2012 85
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product While the Group reached agreement in 2012 to resolve certain federal
liability exposures, has increased the cost, and reduced the capacity, and state governmental investigations into the pricing, marketing and
of insurers to provide coverage for pharmaceutical companies reimbursement of its prescription drug products, as detailed in Note
generally, including the Group. 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, additional related
state investigations that have been initiated on the basis of the same
Product liability litigation factual claims could result in restitution or civil litigation on behalf of
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development state governments, and could also result in related proceedings
of potential pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare initiated against the Group by or on behalf of consumers and private
products to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for payers. Such proceedings may result in trebling of damages awarded
use by humans following approval by regulatory authorities. or fines in respect to each violation of law. The conduct of the Group
Notwithstanding the efforts the Group makes to determine the could result in additional investigations in the future by the US federal
safety of its products through regulated clinical trials, unanticipated and state governments and similar civil litigation. Any of these
side effects may become evident only when drugs and vaccines are consequences could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
widely introduced into the marketplace. financial results.
In other instances, third-parties may perform analyses of published
Mitigating activities include
clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate or
meaningful, may raise questions regarding the safety of The Group attempts to mitigate the risks inherent in drug
pharmaceutical, vaccine or consumer healthcare products which may development through conscientious approaches to product
be publicised by the media and may result in product liability claims. development and distribution that focus on patient safety as an
The Group is currently a defendant in a substantial number of product overriding priority, and that include accurate documentation of the
liability lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims exercise of careful medical governance.
for damages related to the Group’s pharmaceutical and consumer
The Group has constructed a system of medical governance to help
healthcare products. Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently
ensure the safety and efficacy of the drugs, vaccines and consumer
unpredictable. Class actions that sweep together all persons who
products it produces. The Group’s Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is
were prescribed the Group’s products can inflate the potential liability
responsible for medical governance for the Group under a global
by the force of numbers. Claims for pain and suffering and punitive
policy. Under that policy, safeguarding human subjects in Group
damages are frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if
clinical trials and patients who take Group products is of paramount
allowed, can represent potentially open ended exposure and thus
importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
and addressing matters of human safety. The Global Safety Board
In some cases, the Group may voluntarily cease marketing a product (GSB), comprising senior physicians and representatives of supportive
or face declining sales based on concerns about efficacy or safety, functions, as well as the lawyer who leads legal support for
even in the absence of regulatory action. Pharmaceuticals R&D, is an integral component of the system.
The GSB reviews investigational and marketed products within the
Anti-trust litigation
Pharmaceuticals R&D portfolio; subsidiary boards accountable to
In the USA, it has become increasingly common for patent
GSB, also with legal delegates, perform similar reviews for the
infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have
consumer healthcare products and vaccines.
been violated during the prosecution of the patent or during litigation
involving the defence of that patent. Such claims by direct and In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group
indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class actions. as described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster the
The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution claims. early resolution of new disputes as they arise and reduce the number
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by government entities or of such disputes that actually proceed to litigation.
private parties following settlement of patent litigation, alleging that
The Group formalised processes for proactive risk/dispute
such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust
management. The programme aims to drive a more standardised
laws. In the USA and Europe, regulatory authorities have continued to
practice to the early resolution of disputes and consistent use across
challenge as anti-competitive so-called “reverse payment” settlements
the organisation, and establishes a specific vocabulary and identity
between innovator (branded) and generic drug manufacturers.
for the concept of early analysis and resolution, thereby accelerating
The US Supreme Court is currently reviewing the legality of such
the desired culture shift. The Legal group also routinely trains the
settlement agreements. The Group may also be subject to other
Group’s employees on strategies to attempt to minimize the Group’s
anti-trust litigation involving competition claims unrelated to patent
litigation exposure.
infringement and prosecution. A successful anti-trust claim by a
private party or government entity against the Group could materially In response to the execution of the CIA, the Group implemented an
and adversely affect the Group’s financial results. enterprise steering committee to ensure oversight and governance
for CIA compliance. Additionally, the Group appointed a senior
Sales and marketing litigation
executive within its US-based Compliance group whose role is to
The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory
provide assurance to senior management and the Board that the
environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The failure to
Group is complying with its obligations under the CIA.
comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these
jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings brought The Group continues to evaluate its commercial practices, not only
against the Group by governmental entities at the federal and state to ensure compliance with the CIA, but to also find opportunities to
levels and by private plaintiffs. As those rules and regulations change limit or eliminate commercial activities that may not effectively align
or as governmental interpretation of those rules and regulations to our commercial strategy, values, and/or that may result in
evolve, conduct of the Group may be called into question. unnecessary risks. For example, the Group implemented a system for
evaluating and compensating our sales professionals in the USA for
In the USA, for example, the Group settled a number of federal and
the quality of their interactions with healthcare professionals,
state investigations into the marketing of certain of its products and
including an element of customer evaluation, rather than for
entered into a CIA with the federal government relating to the
achieving individual sales targets.
Group’s marketing and promotion of its products in the USA.86 GSK Annual Report 2012
Risk factors
Managing environmental, health, safety and Mitigating activities include
sustainability compliance
The Group regularly engages in credit risk monitoring activities
relating to these wholesalers, including review of periodic financial
Risk description: Risk of ineffectively managing environment,
information and credit ratings, develops and monitors Group internal
health, safety, and sustainability (‘EHSS’) objectives and
risk ratings, and establishes and periodically reviews credit limits.
requirements
Protecting our information
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites.
Risk description: Risk of exposing business critical or sensitive
The Group has also been identified as a potentially responsible party
data due to inadequate data governance or information
under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation
systems security
and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to
the Group’s use or ownership of such sites. The Group relies on critical and sensitive data, such as corporate
Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could result in strategic plans, personally identifiable information, trade secrets and
additional remedial costs that may materially and adversely affect intellectual property, to drive planning and operations. Security of
the Group’s financial results. See Note 44 to the financial statements, this type of data is exposed to escalating external threats that are
‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of environmental related increasing in sophistication and changing from a goal of disruption
proceedings in which the Group is involved. The Group routinely to being financially or politically motivated.
accrues amounts related to its liabilities for such matters. Failure to implement appropriate safeguards to adequately protect
The impact of this risk, should the risk occur, could lead to significant against any unauthorised or unintentional access, acquisition, use,
harm to people, the environment and communities in which the modification, loss or disclosure of this critical or sensitive data may
Group operates and the failure to meet stakeholder expectations adversely impact the Group’s ability to maintain patent rights and
and regulatory requirements. competitive advantages and may result in legal non-compliance
resulting in fines and penalties or inability to sell product in a
Mitigating activities include particular market.
Management of EHSS risk is fundamental to the Group’s performance Mitigating activities include
and reputation. The Group is committed to appropriately managing
EHSS risk and has embedded its importance into its mission to help The Group assesses changes in our risk environment through
people “do more, feel better, live longer”. briefings by government agencies, subscription to commercial threat
intelligence services and security information sharing with other
The Group operates rigorous procedures to seek to eliminate hazards companies - both in our industry and beyond.
where practicable and protect employees’ health and well-being,
but the right culture is our essential starting point. Our employment The Group’s policies and controls on information protection are
practices are designed to create a work place culture in which all regularly reviewed and employees are routinely trained. The Group
Group employees feel valued, respected, empowered and inspired has dedicated information security expertise and resources. In
to achieve our goals. response to the changing external risk environment, the Group has
implemented a global programme to further increase business
The Group’s continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability awareness of information protection requirements, further define
have reduced the Group’s water consumption, hazardous waste, and minimum information security expectations for third-party
energy consumption. The Group actively manages our environmental agreements, implement additional technical controls to protect data,
remediation obligations to ensure practices are environmentally and improve its security event monitoring.
sustainable and compliant.
The Group is also subject to various laws that govern the processing
The Group’s EHSS performance results are shared with the public of Personally Identifiable Information (‘Pll’). To ensure compliance
each year in our Corporate Responsibility Report. with cross-border transfer requirements for Pll, the Group has
submitted an application for Binding Corporate Rules (‘BCRs’), which
Concentration of sales to wholesalers
is under review by the UK Information Commissioner’s Office. The
Group’s BCRs would simplify the internal processing of Pll for human
Risk description: Risk from the Group’s sale of products to
resource and research activities by creating one global standard.
a small number of wholesalers
In the USA, similar to other pharmaceutical and vaccine companies,
the Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in
addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales
to the three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 81% of
the Group’s US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover in 2012.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had trade receivables due from
these three wholesalers totalling £815 million (31 December 2011 –
£934 million). The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk
in respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more are affected
by financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the
Group’s financial results.GSK Annual Report 2012 87
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Governance &
Our Board 88
Our Corporate Executive Team 92
Chairman’s letter 94
Board report to shareholders 95
remuneration
Committee reports 103
Remuneration Committee
Chairman’s letter 109
Total remuneration for 2012 110
Pay for performance for 2012 111
Remuneration policy for 2013 113
Directors’ emoluments
and total remuneration 127
Directors and Senior Management 136
Widening access to vaccines
Through our agreement with the GAVI
Alliance, we are supplying our vaccines at
low prices to help millions of children in
developing countries. This arrangement is
based on a sustainable long-term supply
commitment (see page 24).
sppihW
moT88 GSK Annual Report 2012
trakcorC
niaI
Governance & remuneration
Our Board
Our Board is responsible for the long-term success of the
company, corporate governance, strategy, risk management
and financial performance
Diversity
Experience International experience
Number of directors with this experience
Scientific 20% Global 10
Finance 27% USA 15
Industry 53% Europe 14
EMAP 11
Composition
Tenure
Executive 20% Non-Executives
1
Non-executive
80%
1 0–3 years 33%
2 4–6 years 25%
67% 3 7–9 years 42%
Male
33% The Board considers each of its Non-Executive
Female Directors to be independent in accordance with 22
the UK Corporate Governance Code. 33
Sir Christopher Gent 64 Skills and experience
Sir Christopher has many years’ experience of leading global businesses
Chairman
and a track record of delivering outstanding performance in highly
Nationality British competitive industries. He was appointed Managing Director of
Vodafone plc in 1985 and then became its Chief Executive Officer
Appointment date in 1997 until his retirement in 2003.
1 June 2004 and as Chairman on
1 January 2005 External appointments
Sir Christopher is a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari SpA, a Senior Adviser
Committee membership at Bain & Co and a member of the British Airways International Business
Chairman of the Nominations Advisory Board. Sir Christopher was formerly a member of KPMG’s
and Corporate Responsibility Chairman’s Advisory Group and a Non-Executive Director of Lehman
Committees and a member of Brothers Holdings Inc.
the Remuneration and Finance
Committees
Sir Andrew Witty 48 Skills and experience
Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985. He has worked in the UK, South Africa,
Chief Executive Officer
the USA and Singapore in various senior roles. In 2003, he was appointed
Nationality British President of GSK Europe and joined GSK’s Corporate Executive Team.
He was appointed CEO in May 2008.
Appointment date
31 January 2008 and as Chief While in Singapore, Sir Andrew was a Board Member of the Singapore
Executive Officer on 21 May 2008 Economic Development Board and the Singapore Land Authority. In
2003 he was awarded the Public Service Medal by the Government of
Committee membership Singapore and in August 2012 was also awarded the Public Service Star.
Member of the Finance Committee In the 2012 New Year Honours list, he was awarded a Knighthood for
services to the economy and to the UK pharmaceutical industry. He is
currently a member of the Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group and
was a board member of INSEAD Business School until January 2012.
External appointments
Sir Andrew is currently the Lead Non-Executive Board Member for the
Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. He is also President of the
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and
Chancellor of the University of Nottingham.GSK Annual Report 2012 89
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Simon Dingemans 49 Skills and experience
Prior to joining GSK, Simon had over 25 years’ experience in investment
Chief Financial Officer
banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs. During this time, he advised
Nationality British a broad range of large corporates across a number of industry sectors,
including pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare. Simon advised GSK
Appointment date for over a decade before his appointment and was closely involved in a
4 January 2011 and as Chief number of GSK’s key strategic projects, including the establishment of
Financial Officer on 1 April 2011 ViiV Healthcare.
Committee membership External appointments
Member of the Finance Committee Simon is a member of the Corporate Development Council for the
National Theatre.
Dr Moncef Slaoui 53 Skills and experience
Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in 1988 where he engineered the development
Chairman, Global R&D
of a robust vaccines pipeline. He then led Worldwide Business Development
& Vaccines
for pharmaceutical products before his appointment to lead R&D in 2006.
Nationality Moroccan, He was given overall responsibility for GSK’s Oncology Business in 2010; for
Belgian & American GSK Vaccines in 2011; and for all Global Franchises in 2012. He has a PhD
in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Université Libre de Bruxelles
Appointment date and has published more than 100 scientific papers and presentations. Prior
17 May 2006 to joining GSK, Moncef was Professor of Immunology at the University of
Committee membership Mons, Belgium.
Member of the Finance Committee External appointments
Moncef is a member of the PhRMA and the Biotechnology Industry
Organization boards in the USA and a member of the Advisory Committee
to the Director of National Institutes of Health. He is also an adviser to
the Qatar Foundation. Moncef has advised the US President’s Council of
Advisors on Science and Technology and he was a member of the Board of
the Agency for Science, Technology & Research (A*STAR) until January 2011.
Sir Robert Wilson 69 Skills and experience
Sir Robert has had a long and distinguished career in industry, mainly
Senior Independent
with Rio Tinto, where he became Chief Executive Officer in 1991 and
Non-Executive Director
then Executive Chairman in 1997 until his retirement in October 2003.
Nationality British Sir Robert then became Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc from
January 2004 until May 2012. He was also Chairman of The Economist
Appointment date Group between 2003 and 2009. He has been a Non-Executive Director
1 November 2003 at BP, Diageo and Boots.
Committee membership He will stand down as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director,
Member of the Nominations, Audit and as a member of the Audit & Risk Committee, on 1 May 2013.
& Risk and Finance Committees
External appointments
Sir Robert is a senior adviser to Morgan Stanley and Chairman of the
Accenture Global Mining Executive Council.
Professor Sir Roy Skills and experience
Anderson 65 Professor Sir Roy is a world-renowned medical scientist with advanced
knowledge of infectious disease epidemiology and is currently Professor of
Independent
Infectious Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London. He
Non-Executive Director & is a fellow and member of the Policy Advisory Board of the Royal Society,
Scientific Expert and fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical
Society. He is an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a
Nationality British Foreign Associate Member of the Institute of Medicine at the US National
Appointment date Academy of Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences. Professor
1 October 2007 Sir Roy brings scientific expertise to the Board and the Audit & Risk
Committee’s deliberations.
Committee membership
Member of the Audit & Risk, He will stand down as a member of the Audit & Risk Committee on
Nominations and Finance 1 May 2013.
Committees External appointments
Professor Sir Roy is a member of the International Advisory Board of Hakluyt
& Co Ltd and he is a Trustee of the Natural History Museum, London.90 GSK Annual Report 2012
Governance & remuneration
Our Board continued
Lynn Elsenhans 56 Skills and experience
Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and
Independent
significant knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates.
Non-Executive Director
She served as Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Inc
Nationality American from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and Chief
Executive Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell which she joined in
Appointment date 1980 and where she held a number of senior roles, including Executive
1 July 2012 Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
Committee membership External appointments
Member of the Corporate Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes Inc, a director of
Responsibility and Finance the Texas Medical Center, and a director of The First Tee of Greater
Committees Houston. She is also a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston
and a Trustee of Rice University.
Judy Lewent 64 Skills and experience
Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry
Independent
and of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co in 1980 and then
Non-Executive Director
served as Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired.
Nationality American In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board
has determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial experience.
Appointment date The Board has also agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications
1 April 2011 and background to be an audit committee financial expert as defined
Committee membership by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Chairman of the Audit & Risk External appointments
Committee and a member of Judy is a director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc and Motorola Solutions
the Remuneration and Finance Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust and Chairperson
Committees of the Audit Committee of Rockefeller Financial Services, a life member
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation and a member
of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Judy is a Non-Executive
Director of Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited
and certain Mundipharma International Limited companies and a past
Non-Executive Director of Motorola Inc, Dell Inc and Quaker Oats Company.
trakcorC
niaI
Dr Stephanie Burns 58 Skills and experience
Stephanie is a recognised global business leader, having served as
Independent
Chairman, President and CEO of Dow Corning Corporation until her
Non-Executive Director
retirement at the end of 2011. She has a strong scientific background,
Nationality American with a PhD in organic chemistry with an organosilican speciality,
and is a staunch advocate for science education.
Appointment date
12 February 2007 External appointments
Stephanie was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc
Committee membership in January 2012. She sits on the US President’s Export Council.
Member of the Corporate Stephanie is also an officer of the Society of Chemical Industry,
Responsibility and Finance America Section, and is the past Honorary President of the
Committees and, with effect UK-based parent society.
from 1 May 2013, a member of
the Remuneration Committee
Stacey Cartwright 49 Skills and experience
Stacey is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive experience of global
Independent
consumer businesses and of corporate finance. She is the Executive Vice
Non-Executive Director
President, Chief Financial Officer of Burberry Group plc. Prior to joining
Nationality British Burberry Group plc in 2003, Stacey held the role of Chief Financial Officer
at Egg plc between 1999 and 2003, and from 1988 to 1999 she worked
Appointment date in various finance-related positions at Granada Group plc.
1 April 2011
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board
Committee membership has determined that Stacey has recent and relevant financial experience.
Member of the Audit & Risk and The Board has also agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications and
Finance Committees background to be an audit committee financial expert as defined by the
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sir Crispin Davis 63 Skills and experience
Sir Crispin has industry expertise in the food and beverage sector and
Independent
previously focused on industrial, consumer, restructurings and global
Non-Executive Director
businesses sectors, having served as Chief Executive Officer at Reed
Nationality British Elsevier plc from September 1999 to March 2009.
Appointment date Sir Crispin served as Chief Executive Officer at Aegis Group plc from 1994 to
1 July 2003 1999 and from 1990 to 1993, he worked at Guinness Group plc, where he
served as Group Managing Director at United Distillers and was a member
Committee membership of the Board. In his earlier career, Sir Crispin served for 20 years at Proctor &
Member of the Nominations Gamble, where he was President of North American Food Division. He was
and Finance Committees previously Chairman and Director of StarBev Netherlands BV.
He will retire from the Board at the AGM on 1 May 2013.
External appointments
Sir Crispin is an adviser to CVC Capital Partners. He also serves on the
councils of Oxford University and of The National Trust.GSK Annual Report 2012 91
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Sir Deryck Maughan 65 Skills and experience
Sir Deryck has a wealth of international corporate and investment banking
Independent
experience, having previously served as Chairman and Chief Executive
Non-Executive Director
Officer of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Inc. He served
Nationality British as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
Appointment date He will take over from Sir Robert Wilson as Senior Independent
1 June 2004 Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2013.
Committee membership External appointments
Member of the Audit & Risk, Sir Deryck is a Senior Adviser to, and former partner of, Kohlberg
Nominations, Remuneration and Kravis Roberts & Co. He is a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock Inc
Finance Committees and Thomson Reuters, as well as serving on the Board of Directors of
the Lincoln Center, and is a Trustee of New York University Langone
Medical Center.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 59 Skills and experience
Daniel is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced knowledge of
Independent
underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies for gastrointestinal
Non-Executive Director
disorders. He was formerly Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief
and Scientific Expert of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard
Medical School, and previously served as the Chief Academic Officer of
Nationality American
Partners Healthcare System. Daniel’s current responsibilities in leading a
Appointment date large academic medical centre give him relevant insight into healthcare
1 July 2006 delivery. Daniel brings scientific expertise to the Board and the Audit &
Committee membership Risk Committee’s deliberations.
Member of the Audit & Risk, External appointments
Corporate Responsibility and Daniel is President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Finance Committees Center and holds the Philip O’Bryan Montgomery, Jr., M.D. Distinguished
Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the Doris and Bryan
Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science. He is a member of the
Institute of Medicine of the US National Academy of Sciences, member
of the Board of the Southwestern Medical Foundation and is a Director
of Antibe Therapeutics, Inc.
Tom de Swaan 66 Skills and experience
Tom has had a long and distinguished career in the European banking
Independent
industry, having been a member of the Managing Board and Chief
Non-Executive Director
Financial Officer of ABN AMRO. Tom has held various executive positions
Nationality Dutch at the Dutch Central Bank and was a Non-Executive Director of the
Financial Services Authority from 2001 to 2007.
Appointment date
1 January 2006 In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has
determined that Tom has recent and relevant financial experience. The
Committee membership Board has also agreed that he has the appropriate qualifications and
Chairman of the Remuneration background to be an audit committee financial expert as defined by
Committee and a member of the the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Audit & Risk, Nominations and
Finance Committees External appointments
Tom is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of VanLanschot Bankiers,
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Zurich Insurance Group and a
Non-Executive Director of KPMG’s Public Interest Committee. He is also Vice
Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee
of Royal Ahold and a member of the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM.
Jing Ulrich 45 Skills and experience
Since 2005, Jing has been Managing Director and Chairwoman of Global
Independent
Markets, China at JP Morgan. In her current role, she acts as an adviser to
Non-Executive Director
the world’s largest asset management firms and multinational companies.
Nationality American She also advises Chinese institutions making investments overseas.
Appointment date From 2003 to 2005, Jing worked for Deutsche Bank as Managing
1 July 2012 Director, Head of Greater China Equities. She previously held financial
positions, specialising in the Asia Pacific region, with CLSA and the
Committee membership Emerging Markets Investors Corporation. She was educated at Harvard
Member of the Finance Committee and Stanford Universities.
and, with effect from 1 May 2013,
a member of the Audit & Risk External appointments
Committee Jing is an independent director of Ermenegildo Zegna SpA.
Hans Wijers 62 Skills and experience
Hans has a broad range of business, economic and political experience,
Independent
having served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman at Akzo Nobel
Non-Executive Director
NV from 2002 to 2012. Hans had a long and distinguished career in
Nationality Dutch academia, public service and strategy consulting. He served as a senior
vice president of the Boston Consulting Group from 1998 to 2002.
Appointment date
With effect from 1 April 2013 External appointments
Hans is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate of Heineken
Committee membership NV and also Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch
Member of the Finance Committee Shell. He is also Chairman of the supervisory board of AFC Ajax.92 GSK Annual Report 2012
Governance & remuneration
Our Corporate Executive Team
Our Corporate Executive Team supports our Chief Executive Officer
in the management of the business and our activities
sppihW
moT
dna
trakcorC
niaI
Sir Andrew Witty Simon Bicknell Deirdre Connelly Roger Connor
Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President, President, North America President, Global
Governance, Ethics and Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing & Supply
See ‘Our Board’ on page 88.
Assurance
Deirdre joined GSK as President, North Roger Connor is President, Global
Simon was appointed Senior Vice America Pharmaceuticals in February Manufacturing & Supply (GMS). He was
President, Governance, Ethics and 2009 after working at Eli Lilly and appointed to this role in January 2013,
Assurance in January 2011 and he Company for 24 years. She held a after working for a year as President
is responsible for risk management, variety of positions including sales Designate, GMS.
compliance and strategic auditing. professional, General Manager of Roger joined GSK in 1998 from
Simon joined the Company Secretariat Puerto Rico, Senior Vice President of AstraZeneca and has worked in a
in 1984 and became Deputy Company Human Resources and, most recently, number of roles within finance and
Secretary of Glaxo Wellcome in 1995. President of US Operations. manufacturing strategy, including at
He was appointed Company Secretary A native of San Juan, Deirdre received GSK sites at Cork in Ireland and Ware
of GlaxoSmithKline plc in May 2000 a bachelor’s degree in economics and in the UK. Prior to his role in GMS,
and combined this position with his role marketing from Lycoming College in Roger was Vice President, Office of
as Corporate Compliance Officer from Pennsylvania in 1983. She graduated the CEO and Corporate Strategy
2006 until his current appointment. from the Harvard University’s Advanced from February 2010.
After gaining his Law degree, Simon Management Programme in 2000, and He holds a degree in Mechanical
qualified as a barrister in 1983 and is in January 2013 was appointed to the and Manufacturing Engineering
a member of Middle Temple. Harvard University Public Health Policy from Queen’s University Belfast and a
Council. Masters in Manufacturing Leadership
Deirdre is also a member of the Board from Cambridge University. He is also
of Directors of Macy’s Inc., the US a Chartered Accountant.
department store chain.
Simon Dingemans Marc Dunoyer Abbas Hussain Bill Louv
Chief Financial Officer Head of Rare Diseases Unit President, Europe and EMAP Senior Vice President, Core
and Chairman of GSK Japan Business Services
See ‘Our Board’ on page 89. Abbas was appointed President, Europe
Marc was appointed to lead the new and EMAP in September 2012. He joined Bill was appointed to create and lead
rare diseases business from R&D to the company as President, Emerging Core Business Services (CBS) in April
commercialisation in February 2010. Markets & Asia Pacific in June 2008. 2010. CBS intergrates the shared
He has also served as Chairman of GSK Previously Abbas spent 20 years at Eli-Lilly services of the global support functions.
Japan since January 2010 where he was where he held positions including He was previously Chief Information
previously Representative Director and President, Europe and before that Vice Officer.
President, Pharmaceuticals Japan. President, Europe with specific Bill joined the company in 1994 as Vice
Marc joined the company from Hoechst responsibility for the Western European President of Medical Data Sciences, and
Marion Roussel in 1999 and was Mid-Size countries, Africa & Middle East has held a number of increasingly senior
President, Pharmaceuticals Japan from Area/Commonwealth of Independent roles in R&D and IT.
January 2000 until May 2008. He was States and Central & Eastern Europe Bill has a Bachelor of Science degree in
also President, Pharmaceuticals Asia regions. He also held positions in sales and Biology from the College of William and
Pacific/ Japan from May 2008 to marketing across Australasia and India. Mary, and Master of Science and Doctor
July 2010. Abbas was appointed to ViiV Healthcare of Philosophy degrees in Statistics from
Marc has an MBA from the Hautes Ltd. Board in October 2009 and the the University of Florida.
Etudes Commerciales. He has a Bachelor Aspen Board in December 2009. He is
of Law degree from Paris University and also a Board Member of the Singapore
also qualified as a Junior CPA in France Duke-NUS Governing Board and Audit
in 1977. & Risk Committee Board.
Born in Madras, India, Abbas has
a degree in Medicinal Chemistry &
Pharmacology from Loughborough
University.2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
GSK Annual Report 2012 93
David Redfern Dr Moncef Slaoui Claire Thomas Phil Thomson
Chief Strategy Officer Chairman, Global R&D Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Global
& Vaccines Human Resources Communications
David was appointed Chief Strategy
Officer in May 2008 and is responsible See ‘Our Board’ on page 89. Claire was appointed Senior Vice Phil was appointed Senior Vice
for proactive exploration of new President, Human Resources in President, Global Communications in
business opportunities, strategic May 2008 and is responsible for August 2010. He has responsibility for
planning and the leadership of the GSK’s Environmental Sustainability Media Relations, Investor Relations,
dermatology business. In addition to Strategy. She was previously Senior Corporate Responsibility, Internal
his current role, he was appointed Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Product
Chairman of the Board of ViiV Pharmaceuticals International. Communications.
Healthcare Ltd. in April 2011.
Claire joined the company in 1996 and Phil joined Glaxo Wellcome as a
Previously, he was Senior Vice President, was appointed Senior Vice President, commercial trainee in 1996, moving
Northern Europe with responsibility Human Resources, and Pharmaceuticals from pharmaceutical brand marketing
for managing GSK’s pharmaceutical Europe in 2001, where she successfully to product communications. In 1999 he
businesses in that region and prior to led the HR function through the merger. became a Director of Media Relations
that Senior Vice President for Central Prior to joining the company she worked for Glaxo Wellcome plc and in 2001,
and Eastern Europe. David joined the for Ford Motor Company, holding took up the position of Director,
company in 1994 and held a series of various positions. Investor Relations for GSK. In 2004,
finance roles before becoming Finance he returned to Corporate Media
Director of the European business from Claire has a Bachelor of Science degree Relations as Vice President.
1999-2002. in Economics, Management and
Industrial Relations from the University Phil earned his degree in English and
David has a Bachelor of Science degree of Wales. Claire was honoured as an History from Durham University.
from Bristol University in the UK and is
Outstanding European Woman of
a Chartered Accountant.
Achievement in 2007.
Dan Troy Patrick Vallance Emma Walmsley Christophe Weber
Senior Vice President & President, Pharmaceuticals President, Consumer President, Vaccines
General Counsel R&D Healthcare Worldwide
Christophe was appointed President,
Dan joined the company as Senior Patrick was appointed President, Emma assumed the role of President, Vaccines in April 2012.
Vice President & General Counsel Pharmaceuticals R&D, in January 2012. Consumer Healthcare Worldwide in He was named President Designate
in September 2008. Prior to his appointment he was Senior October 2011 after joining GSK in of Vaccines in January 2011. Prior to
He was previously a Partner at the Vice President, Medicines Discovery and May 2010 as President of Consumer this, he was Senior Vice President
Washington law firm Sidley Austin Development. Healthcare Europe. and Regional Director, Asia Pacific,
LLP, where he represented mainly Patrick joined the company in 2006 as Under Emma’s leadership the business responsible for GSK operations in
pharmaceutical companies and trade Head of Drug Discovery. He focused has a new strategic direction to become Asia Pacific from 2008.
associations on matters related to the the organisation on science that the first and best Fast Moving Consumer He joined the company in 1993 and
US Food and Drug Administration has the best chance of leading to Healthcare company, driven by science held increasingly senior commercial
(FDA) and government regulations. new medicines, and created small, and values, combining the very best positions including General Manager
Dan was formerly Chief Counsel for multidisciplinary teams called Discovery of GSK’s scientific knowledge with the of the company’s Swiss subsidiary and,
the FDA, where he served as a primary Performance Units. speed and marketing excellence of the from 2003 to 2008, Chairman and CEO
liaison to the White House and the Prior to joining GSK Patrick was a clinical Fast Moving Consumer Goods world. of GSK France.
US Department of Health and Human academic at University College London. Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked Christophe started his career in
Services. Patrick is a member of the Board of with L’Oreal for 17 years where she Australia, working for Rhône-Poulenc-
Dan is a graduate from Cornell the Agency for Science, Technology & held a variety of marketing and general Rorer Pharmaceuticals. He is a Doctor
University’s School of Industrial and Research (A*STAR) and is a director of management roles in Paris, London of Pharmacy & Pharmacokinetics, holds
Labor Relations, and earned his law Genome Research Limited. He is also a and New York. From 2007 she was a Master of Pharmaceutical Marketing,
degree from Columbia University member of the International Scientific based in Shanghai as General Manager, a Master of Finance and a degree in
School of Law. Advisory Board of the Cambridge Consumer Products, L’Oreal China. statistics.
Institute for Medical Research. She has a degree in Classics and Modern
Languages from Oxford University.94 GSK Annual Report 2012
Corporate governance
Dear Shareholder
As Chairman of the Board, I am committed to GSK seeking to operate to the highest standards of
corporate governance. We believe it is our governance structure that underpins our ability to deliver our
strategy to grow a diversified business, deliver more products of value and simplify our operating model.
The following pages outline our approach to governance. The structure of the Corporate Governance
Report has been modified this year and my report begins with an overview which summarises the
key highlights from 2012 and future actions. Thereafter, our disclosures seek to mirror the structure
of the Financial Reporting Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code, while several of the statutory
disclosures that have appeared within this report in the past have been consolidated into the
Shareholder Information section of the Annual Report on pages 239 to 246.
I wish to draw attention to the following key areas which were addressed by the Board during the year.
Board refreshment and diversity
Last year, I discussed the Board’s review of its composition and the changes initiated as a result. I am
pleased to report that our proactive refreshment of the Board has led to further important changes
to its composition. James Murdoch and Larry Culp stood down from the Board in May and September
2012 respectively and Sir Crispin Davis will not stand for re-election at the AGM in May 2013. In
their places, we are pleased to welcome Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich, who joined the Board on
1 July 2012, and Hans Wijers, who will join the Board on 1 April 2013. These appointments close
two significant gaps in the Board’s composition that had been identified during the 2011 external
evaluation of the Board; namely global CEO experience and knowledge of, and experience in,
emerging markets. We are also very pleased that Sir Robert Wilson has agreed to stand for re-election
by shareholders for one further year before he steps down from the Board at the 2014 AGM. Given
his significant knowledge and experience of GSK, this will provide a period of continuity as the new
Non-Executive Directors settle into their roles. We have also taken the opportunity to refresh the
composition of our Board Committees, details of which are set out in my Nominations Committee
Report on pages 106 to 107.
Although we view diversity in its widest sense (and at Board level we specifically look for diversity of
geographical background, ethnicity, gender and types of experience), we are pleased that our Board
refreshment programme has further increased our gender diversity. With the recruitment of Lynn and
Jing, we have taken the cadre of women on the Board to 33%, which places GSK firmly in the upper
quartile of the FTSE 100 in terms of female Board representation. I am also pleased to report that we
continue to have a good representation of women in management positions and we actively
encourage programmes such as GSK Women’s Leadership Initiative to help increase the pipeline of
women at senior levels of the organisation.
Corporate reporting
We fully support the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills’ (BIS) efforts to improve narrative
and remuneration reporting in so far as they seek to raise the bar in reporting and this view was
reflected in our submissions to the consultations they have conducted on these new proposals.
In addition, we have been fully engaged in representing the company’s views on developing these
initiatives, including as a participating member on the Financial Lab project, run jointly by the Financial
Reporting Council (FRC) and BIS, to develop example best practice formats of remuneration disclosures.
Corporate Integrity Agreement
Finally, the Board, in conjunction with our Audit & Risk Committee and the CET, has been fully involved
in overseeing the conclusion of settlements with the US Federal Government on a broad range of
long-standing legal cases and the implementation of the Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) signed
with the US Department of Health and Human Services. The requirements of the CIA have been built
into our governance structures. The Board completed its first training programme on the CIA and how
it would operate in 2012 and will continue to receive ongoing training each year. The Board will also
be apprised of our compliance with the CIA on a quarterly basis. Further details on the CIA and its
implications for GSK can be found on pages 51 and 214.
I commend the following report to all our shareholders.
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
5 March 2013GSK Annual Report 2012 95
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Board report to shareholders – Oversight and stewardship in 2012 and future actions
The Board
The Board is pleased to report that it was in full compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of GSK and is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately
managed and governed and delivers GSK’s strategy to Grow, Deliver & Simplify.
2012 Board programme
The Board met six times in 2012 and each Board member attended all scheduled Board meetings with the exception of Judy Lewent, who
was unable to attend one meeting due to personal circumstances. She conveyed her views and comments to the Chairman on the matters
to be discussed, which he shared with the other Directors at the meeting.
The Board agendas were shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and debate, including ‘deep dive’ reviews of key issues for the
business, to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities. During 2012, the agendas for Board meetings included the following business:
Month Strategy Board oversight Governance Risk oversight
January Review expansion of Operational Excellence Review of 2011 financial results Review of external 2011 Review of risk and
Restructuring Programme and outlook for 2012 Board evaluation report internal controls
Review of Notice of AGM Secretary’s report process
Re-appointment of auditors
March Review of Respiratory strategy Annual Global Manufacturing Secretary’s report
Review of Business Development projects and Supply (GMS) and US
Deep dive – future of animals in research Pharma business reviews
May Annual European operations and Preparation for AGM
Vaccines business reviews Secretary’s report
July Review of long range forecast Annual R&D review Secretary’s report Corporate Integrity
Review of changes to Finance strategy Review of capital and licensing Agreement training
Review of funding and tax strategies proposals
Review of talent and leadership development
strategy
October Review of output from the Annual Board & Annual business reviews of Review of projects and Corporate Integrity
CET strategy meeting Consumer Healthcare, Emerging transactions approved by Agreement training
Deep dive – working capital Markets and Japan the Board
Secretary’s report
December Review and approval of 2013-15 plan Review of investor activity
Update on tax, GMS and R&D strategies and IR strategy
Secretary’s report
2012 Board performance
During 2011, the Board identified certain actions as central to increasing its ability to add further value. The performance of the Board in
2012 against these actions is set out below:
Actions Progress/Achievement
(i) The external landscape
Increase consideration of major external influences and GSK’s relative The Board programme was expanded to include consideration of major
strengths and weaknesses to help expand the Board’s knowledge. influences on GSK.
Increase understanding and knowledge through individual Non- The Board visited India in October as part of the Board & CET strategy
Executive Director and Board site visits. meeting. Specific site visits for individual directors were arranged to the
Group’s sites at Stevenage, Wavre, Research Triangle Park (RTP) and Zebulon.
Ensure that Non-Executive Directors continue to engage both formally Directors were offered full access to senior executive meetings and enjoyed
and informally with the company. attending and meeting with GSK’s executives to learn more about the
business and its culture.
Management should demonstrate to the Board that it is embedding The Board’s visit to India provided an opportunity to appreciate how risk
the culture of risk awareness within Emerging Markets and how the management is embedded in the business and emerging risks are captured.
emerging risks are captured.
(ii) Board contribution and composition
The Board to plan its composition over the next five to six years, to The Nominations Committee is focused on long-term recruitment of Non-
optimise its effectiveness. Executive Directors.
Close two significant gaps identified in the Board’s current composition: The Board was pleased to welcome two new Non-Executive Directors, Lynn
global CEO experience and knowledge of, and experience in, emerging Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich, who add CEO and emerging markets experience
markets. to the Board’s deliberations.
These actions are set out in full on page 90 of GSK’s 2011 annual report, which discusses the externally facilitated evaluation of the Board’s
activities by Dr Tracy Long.96 GSK Annual Report 2012
Corporate governance
Board report to shareholders – Oversight and stewardship in 2012 and future actions continued
2012 & 2013 AGMs – Key highlights at a glance
2012 AGM – held on 3 May 2012 at QEII Conference Centre, London 2013 AGM – to be held on 1 May 2013 at QEII Conference Centre, London
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:38)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69) (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:79)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:7)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:14)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:14)(cid:25)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:23)(cid:23)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0) (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:89)(cid:78)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:76)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:73)(cid:74)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)
capital) the Board
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:45)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:79)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68) (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:79)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68)
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:79)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0) (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)
at least 96.9% of the votes cast in favour standing for re-election
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:25)(cid:21)(cid:14)(cid:23)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0) (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:79)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)
in favour commitment to his or her role.
(cid:115)(cid:0)Highest votes in favour: 99.9% to re-elect a number of Directors
(cid:115)(cid:0)Lowest votes in favour: 90.8% to reduce notice of a General Meeting.
Strategic focus – Board & CET strategy meeting in Delhi, India
Emerging markets provide a significant growth opportunity for GSK. During 2012, turnover in the region grew by 10% and now accounts
for 26% of Group turnover. The Board chose to hold its 2012 annual strategy review meeting in India. This gave the Board, who were joined
by the CET, the opportunity to have a firsthand view of the Group’s local business and its future potential. The Board and CET were also
pleased to be able to meet with highly respected government and business figures to gain further insight into the country’s political
and economic outlook.
Induction programmes – Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich
(i) Individually designed and facilitated: by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
(ii) Purpose: to orientate and familiarise Lynn and Jing, who were appointed to the Board in 2012, with our strategy to Grow, Deliver &
Simplify and with the industry, our organisation and our governance arrangements.
(iii) Customised: to take account of their respective experience, different geographical backgrounds and business perspectives, together
with the Committees on which they would serve.
Key elements of their one-to-one induction briefing sessions and site visits undertaken in 2012 are set out below:
Contact/Activity Induction content
Executive Directors GSK’s strategic, financial and R&D priorities
CET members Wide spectrum of GSK operations, including Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses, strategic
development, investor relations, global communications and corporate responsibilty
Senior Executives Focused on a number of core functions such as finance, tax, treasury, audit and assurance, risk management
and investor relations
Company Secretary Legal and regulatory duties of a UK listed company director and the corporate governance practices within GSK
Site visits Tours of our GMS, R&D and Vaccines sites in RTP, Zebulon and Wavre
Investor meetings Meetings with investors as requested
The induction and training programmes for Lynn and Jing have continued in 2013, with a focus on internal management meeting
attendance and operational site visits in order to give them a good perspective on how management operates and to provide them
with opportunities to meet key talent and to deepen their understanding of key business issues.
Board performance action points for 2013
The agreed action points arising from the 2012 Board evaluation review facilitated by our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director,
Sir Robert Wilson, against which progress will be disclosed in GSK’s 2013 Annual Report, are set out below:
(i) The external landscape
Board members were keen to supplement their understanding of the external landscape with ‘teach-ins’ on a range of topics,
such as various therapeutic areas, the design of Phase III trials, pricing, biopharmaceuticals, pharmacogenomics and emerging
technology in R&D.
(ii) Oversight of strategy
The Board wished to spend more time on business unit strategy, competitor analysis, pricing regimes, acquisition strategy and
emerging issues.
(iii) Board composition
The Nominations Committee was tasked with identifying further suitable candidates to replace Board members due to retire in
the next few years.GSK Annual Report 2012 97
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Leadership and effectiveness Senior Independent Director
Sir Robert Wilson has been our Senior Independent Director (SID)
The Board
since 20 May 2009. His role is to act as a sounding board for Sir
The Board met six times in 2012, with each member attending as Christopher and a trusted intermediary for the other Directors.
follows: He is also available as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
His responsibilities include the evaluation of the performance of the
Number of Number of Chairman, and at the request of the Chairman, evaluating the Board
meetings held whilst meetings and its Committees (in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen)
a Board member attended in years when the evaluation is conducted internally.
Sir Christopher Gent 6 6/6
The SID also works with the Chairman on the process for the
Sir Andrew Witty 6 6/6
selection of a new Chairman as appropriate and he chairs the
Simon Dingemans 6 6/6
Nominations Committee when agreeing the recommendation
Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6/6 to the Board for the Chairman’s successor.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6/6
Sir Robert maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns
Dr Stephanie Burns 6 6/6
of our major shareholders through meetings with them and reports
Stacey Cartwright 6 6/6
from our investor relations team.
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6/6
Lynn Elsenhans* 3 3/3 Sir Deryck Maughan will succeed Sir Robert as SID with effect from
the end of the AGM on 1 May 2013.
Judy Lewent 6 5/6
Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6/6 CEO
Dr Daniel Podolsky 6 6/6
Tom de Swaan 6 6/6 Sir Andrew is responsible for the management of the business,
developing the Group’s strategic direction for consideration and
Jing Ulrich* 3 3/3
approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy. He is
Sir Robert Wilson 6 6/6
assisted by other members of the CET, which meets at least 11 times
Larry Culp** 4 4/4
a year and more often if required.
James Murdoch*** 3 3/3
Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under ‘Our
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a quorate basis
Corporate Executive Team’ on pages 92 and 93.
on four occasions.
* L ynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich were appointed as Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary
with effect from 1 July 2012.
** Larry Culp resigned from the Board on 30 September 2012. The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, is a solicitor and a Fellow
*** James Murdoch retired from the Board on 3 May 2012. of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. Victoria
was formerly Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the Remuneration
The Chairman Committee. She has acted as Secretary to the Board and all the
Board’s Committees since her appointment as Company Secretary
Sir Christopher’s role as Chairman is to lead and manage the
on 1 January 2011.
business of the Board and to provide direction and focus, while
ensuring that there is a clear structure for the effective operation Victoria supports the Chairman in designing the induction for new
of the Board and its Committees. He sets the agenda for Board Directors, in the delivery of the corporate governance agenda, in
discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and to particular in the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board
support a sound decision-making process, ensuring that the Board and Committee meetings, and in ensuring that information is made
receives accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about available to Board members on a timely basis. She advises the
the company’s performance. Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance matters,
and arranges for the Non-Executive Directors to attend internal
Sir Christopher works closely with Sir Andrew Witty to ensure
management meetings and make visits to our business operations
that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are effectively
to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the business.
implemented and provides support and advice to Sir Andrew, while
respecting his executive responsibility for managing the Group. The During 2012, Victoria responded to various consultations on the
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has evolving global governance and reporting agenda on behalf of the
been agreed by the Board and is set out in the governance section Group. She also engaged with shareholders to ensure they fully
of our website. understood GSK’s governance and remuneration arrangements.
Sir Christopher is responsible for the performance of the Group to
shareholders and leads discussions and the development of relations
with them.
Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element
on the Board. They are well placed to constructively challenge and
support management and to shape proposals on strategy and
succession planning. Between them, they bring independent
judgement and a breadth of skills and experience gained at the most
senior levels of international business operations and academia.98 GSK Annual Report 2012
Corporate governance
Corporate governance framework
The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities designed to safeguard
and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust platform to realise the Group’s strategy. Our internal control and risk
management arrangements, which are described on pages 100 to 102, are an integral part of GSK’s governance framework.
Board
(Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and
11 Independent Non-Executive Directors)
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Chief Executive
Committee Committee Committee Officer
Corporate Administration
Corporate Responsibility Finance Corporate Executive
& Transactions
Committee Committee Team
Committee
Board Committees
In order for the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established. A
summary of the role of each Board Committee is set out in the table below. The full terms of reference of each Committee are available
on our website and reports on the membership and work undertaken by the Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nominations and Corporate
Responsibility Committees during 2012 are given on pages 103 to 136.
Corporate
Corporate Administration
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Finance & Transactions
Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and
recommends: recommends: approves: approves:
Financial and internal External issues that
reporting processes, To the Board the Structure, size and have the potential for The Annual Report Matters in connection
integrity of the overall executive composition of the serious impact upon and Form 20-F, the with the administration
financial statements, remuneration policy Board and the GSK’s business convening of the of the Group’s
system of internal appointment of AGM, the preliminary business and certain
controls, identification To the Board the members to the Board, Oversight of: and quarterly results corporate transactions
appropriate fees for
and management its Committees and Reputation announcements
the Chairman
of risks and external the CET management
Approves:
and internal audit Determines:
processes Monitors: Certain major licensing
Terms of service and Succession to the and capital transactions
Proposes: remuneration of Board and CET and changes to the
Appointment of Executive Directors Group’s Investment
external auditors and other members Instrument and
of the CET Counterparty Limits
Responsible for:
Reviews and
Initiating an audit approves:
tender, the selection
The Remuneration
of external auditors,
Report
their remuneration and
oversight of their workGSK Annual Report 2012 99
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Board induction, business awareness and training In May 2011, we announced our aspiration to increase the female
representation on the Board to at least 25% by 2013. We were able
The induction programmes for Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich
to report in the 2011 Annual Report that encouraging progress had
presented on page 96 illustrate the typical induction format for
been made towards this target, with 20% of our Directors being
a new Director.
women at that stage. As part of the continued refreshment of the
To ensure that Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain a Board, both Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich were appointed as new
greater insight and understanding of the business, they are invited Non-Executive Directors in July 2012, taking the cadre of women on
to attend internal management meetings, including meetings of our Board to 33%. We are pleased to have delivered early on our
the CET, the Research & Development Executive, the Product aspiration and to have exceeded the target we set ourselves. This
Executive, the Scientific Review Board, the Portfolio Investment places GSK firmly in the upper quartile of the FTSE 100 in terms of
Board, the Commercial Accountability Board and the Risk Oversight female Board representation.
and Compliance Council. They also meet employees informally
Time allocation
during visits to the Group’s operations and receptions held
around Board meetings. Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which
The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory and governance sets out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
matters through regular papers from the Company Secretary and Sir Christopher and the Non-Executive Directors are expected to
presentations by internal and external advisers. devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance of their
During the year, the Board was briefed on various developments in duties. No precise timings are given as this will vary from year to year
narrative reporting and executive remuneration, risk management, depending on the company’s activities. Directors are expected to
board diversity, the impact of the UK and EU reviews of the audit attend all Board meetings, and any additional meetings as required.
market, market abuse and insider trading, shareholder engagement They are also expected to attend meetings of the Committees of
and other developments in corporate governance reporting, which they are members, part two of the Audit & Risk Committee
including the publication of the September 2012 update to the meetings (which are open to all Directors in furtherance of their risk
UK Corporate Governance Code. responsibilities) and strategy sessions and to make visits to
The Board undertook specific training on the CIA in 2012. Going operational sites. In addition, Board members are invited to attend
forward, the Board has committed to further refresher training at least one CET meeting a year and may attend certain Research &
each year. Each new Board member will, as part of his or her Development Executive and other operational meetings.
induction programme, receive comprehensive training on the CIA.
2012 Board and Chairman’s evaluation
Sir Christopher also meets with each director annually on a
The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and the
one-to-one basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and
performance of its Committees every year which is facilitated
development requirements.
externally every third year. The progress of the Board against the
Board composition outcomes of the 2011 evaluation, which was externally facilitated
by Dr Tracy Long, is reported on page 95. The action points arising
We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose from the 2012 evaluation of the Board by the SID, Sir Robert Wilson,
capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic are disclosed on page 96.
positioning of our business. The process for Board appointments
is led by the Nominations Committee and is described on pages The Board has now entered a period of change with two Non-
106 to 107. Executive Directors departing in 2012 and two new appointments.
The Board believes that it continues to function well: it is well-
We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board chaired; the culture is both open and inclusive; relations between
and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors are constructive
that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors, and mutually respectful, with Non-Executive Directors having a
while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which notably high level of confidence in the Executive Directors.
more recent appointees bring to the Board’s deliberations. Importantly, there are no domineering personalities and Board
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries engagement and dialogue is constructive.
and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, medical GSK is unusual in welcoming Non–Executive Directors to attend
research and academia, retail and financial services, and have at its key internal management meetings. This is appreciated by
appropriate experience of complex organisations with global reach. Non-Executive Directors and over time may give the Board a
Some have considerable experience of the pharmaceutical industry different character to most of its peers. It offers Non-Executive
and the more recent appointees bring a new approach to the Group Directors the opportunity to witness management interaction and
and to the Board’s discussions. culture firsthand and to see some issues debated or reviewed in
much greater depth than is normally possible in the context of a
Board diversity
relatively rigid Board agenda.
We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom and we are
The Board is now more balanced by gender and more diversified
similarly committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at
internationally.
all levels of the organisation and the diversity and inclusiveness of
our workforce are promoted throughout GSK. In terms of further improvement, the Board felt that it wanted to
continue to focus on forward strategy and wished to spend more
We believe that a key requirement of an effective board is that it time on business unit strategy, competitor analysis, pricing regimes,
comprises a range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge,
acquisition strategy, and emerging issues.
gender and independence, with individuals that are prepared to
challenge as well as work as a team. This needs to be backed up
by a diversity of personal attributes, including character, intellect,
sound judgement, honesty and courage.100 GSK Annual Report 2012
Corporate governance
The Board was keen to continue to supplement its understanding of Accountability
the business and the industry, with voluntary “teach-ins” on a range
of topics, including specific therapeutic areas, the design of phase III Internal control framework
trials, pricing, biopharmaceuticals, pharmacogenomics and emerging
technology in R&D. The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects.
The Chairmen of each of the Board Committees undertook separate
evaluations of their Committees and the outcome of each was The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the
reported and discussed with the respective Committee and the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the
Board. A summary of the conclusions of each review is included in Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls and
the respective Committee report. risk management. The Board has delegated responsibility for such
review to the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee), which
The Non-Executive Directors, led by Sir Robert, met separately,
receives regular reporting aligned with our Assurance Programme.
without Sir Christopher being present, to discuss his performance.
They considered his leadership, performance and overall contribution It is the responsibility of management, through the CET, to
to be of a high standard. implement Board policies on risk and control. The CET is responsible
for identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing key policies
In addition, Sir Christopher met with all the Non-Executive Directors
that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business.
independently of the Executive Directors.
The internal control framework includes central direction, resource
Relations with shareholders allocation, oversight and risk management of the key activities of
R&D, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, human resources,
We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regular information systems and financial practice. As part of this
communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities. framework, there is a financial planning system with an annual
budget approved by the Board. The results of operating units are
We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis. The annual
reported monthly and compared with the budget. Forecasts are
results are included in our Annual Report. All shareholders receive
prepared regularly during the year.
an annual summary leaflet which advises them that our Annual
Report and Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available Established procedures are in place to identify and consolidate
on our website. reporting entities. Our control activities include policies and practices
covering appropriate authorisation and approval of transactions,
Sir Andrew and Simon Dingemans give live presentations to
the application of financial reporting standards and reviews of
institutional investors, analysts and the media with the full year
significant judgments and financial performance.
results, which are also available via webcast and teleconference.
After the first, second and third quarter results, we hold webcast Extensive financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures
teleconferences for the same audience. Our results are available and risk activities are reviewed by the Group’s internal auditors.
on our website. Responsibility for risk management and control is clearly delegated
to local business units, supported by our regional management
Our investor relations department, with offices in London and
structure. These principles are designed to provide an environment
Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with investors.
of central leadership, coupled with local operating autonomy, as the
Sir Andrew, Simon and Sir Christopher maintain a continuous
framework for the exercise of accountability and control within the
dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans
Group.
and objectives through a programme of regular meetings. During
the year they held over 100 individual meetings with investors and Importance is attached to clear principles and procedures designed
they have also hosted approximately 30 group meetings with to achieve appropriate accountability and control. A Group policy,
investors and potential investors. ‘Risk Management and Legal Compliance’, mandates that our
business units establish processes for managing and monitoring
Victoria Whyte acts as a focal point for communications on
risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
corporate governance matters. We also have a small central
Corporate Responsibility (CR) team which co-ordinates strategy, The business units and the majority of global support functions
policy development and reporting specifically with respect to CR. prepare reports annually, in collaboration with Global Ethics and
The team communicates with socially responsible investors and Compliance (see page 101), summarising risk management activities.
other stakeholders. These reports are reviewed by the relevant Risk Management and
Compliance Board (RMCB) for each operation and subsequently
Sir Christopher also meets regularly with institutional shareholders
reported to the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and
and the Committee.
communicates their views to the other members of the Board.
The SID and all the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet
with shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Chairman, the Head
of Human Resources and the Company Secretary hold annual
meetings with major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration
and governance matters.
We have a briefing process in place, managed by Sir Christopher,
for Non-Executive Directors to focus on sector specific issues and
general shareholder preferences.GSK Annual Report 2012 101
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council This global approach will ensure core compliance elements are
proactively evaluated against common global expectations
The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board
regardless of the business area, region or risk, while raising the
to assist the Committee in overseeing the risk management and
visibility of best practices across the compliance programmes.
internal control activities of the Group. Membership comprises
several CET members, the Company Secretary and some of the A global standard operating procedure was approved by Global
heads of departments with internal control, risk management, Ethics and Compliance, Human Resources, Legal and Business
assurance, audit and compliance responsibilities. The ROCC is Leaders to harmonise the coordination, conduct, tracking, reporting
chaired by the Head of Governance, Ethics and Assurance. and communication of internal investigations related to actual,
alleged or potential infractions of laws or regulations, GSK Policy,
The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant
Code of Conduct or other wrong-doing.
risks and their mitigation plans and to provide oversight of internal
controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and To support the new procedure, a practical guide to undertaking
internal policies. The ROCC, responding to our Group ‘Risk investigations was implemented. A significant training programme
Management and Legal Compliance’ policy, has provided the business was conducted to improve the technical and forensic investigative
units with a framework for risk management and upward reporting abilities of the Central Investigations Team. Additionally, a new
of significant risks. Each business unit assigns individual responsibility Investigations Governance Board was formed in 2012 to enable
for the management of risks inherent to the business unit. For analysis of trends, root cause analyses and to make
enterprise emerging risks, mitigation planning and the identification recommendations to executive management for remedial
of an individual with overall GSK responsibility is mandatory. enterprise-wide action.
Risk Management and Compliance Boards Global Product Quality Office
RMCBs have been established in each of the major business units. The Global Product Quality Office (GPQO) oversees the activities
Membership often comprises members of the senior executive of the GSK Quality Council (GSK QC) which serves as a forum to
team of the respective business unit, augmented by specialists escalate emerging risks, share experiences of handling quality issues
where appropriate. The RMCBs oversee the management of all and ensure that the learnings are assessed and deployed across the
risks that are considered important for their respective business organisation as appropriate. This has included reviews and
units, including those risks that are designated as significant to mitigations of regulatory inspections, major investigations relating to
GSK as a whole, thus increasing the number of risks that are external suppliers, and harmonisation of company recall procedures.
actively managed across the Group. The GSK QC has representation from the Executive Quality Councils
in GMS, Vaccines and R&D, together with members of Audit &
Each business unit and corporate function must periodically review
Assurance, Legal, R&D and Supply Chain Leaders, and provides
the significant risks facing our businesses. This review generally
insight to the ROCC and the Committee on product quality matters.
includes identifying operational risks, legal compliance risks and
risks to the achievement of strategic goals and objectives. The The GPQO has oversight responsibility for developing common
reviews are scheduled at least annually and should be embedded quality standards and systems across GSK. There is an ongoing
within, and aligned to, the annual planning process to ensure that review of GSK’s Quality Management System to ensure that
significant risks are identified with changes in management its content is reflective of the detailed requirements for the
direction and the external environment. manufacture of pharmaceuticals, consumer healthcare products,
vaccines and investigative clinical trials materials, while providing
Global Ethics and Compliance applicable and appropriate content for Quality Activities in
Commercial Local Operating Companies.
The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by Global Ethics and
Compliance, which is responsible for supporting the development Audit & Assurance
and implementation of practices that facilitate employees’
compliance with laws and Group policy. Audit & Assurance has responsibility for independently assessing
the adequacy and effectiveness of the management of significant
Global Ethics and Compliance provides assistance to help employees
risk areas and reporting outcomes to the Committee in line with an
meet our high ethical standards and comply with applicable laws agreed assurance plan. The internal audit group comprises seven
and regulations and corporate responsibility. The thrust of Global
principal teams focused in the following areas:
Ethics and Compliance’s efforts is the promotion of ethical behaviour
and corporate responsibility in accordance with our values, due (cid:115)(cid:0) Commercial and Financial internal audit
diligence to prevent and detect misconduct or non-compliance with
(cid:115)(cid:0) Information Technology internal audit
laws or regulations and effective compliance systems.
(cid:115)(cid:0) Manufacturing internal audit (including Environment, Health,
Global Ethics and Compliance is led by the Head of Governance,
Safety and Sustainability)
Ethics and Assurance, a CET member, who reports directly to the
CEO. He has a further direct reporting line to the Committee that (cid:115)(cid:0) R&D internal audit
provides a mechanism for bypassing the executive management
(cid:115)(cid:0) Assurance excellence & operations
should the need ever arise. He also chairs the ROCC and provides
summary reports on the ROCC’s activities and the Group’s (cid:115)(cid:0) Anti-Bribery & Corruption
significant risks to the CET and the Committee on a regular basis.
(cid:115)(cid:0) Risk management
In 2012, Global Ethics and Compliance completed a review of its
All internal audit activity is conducted by a single organisation under
global strategy in order to ensure consistency across all business
the leadership of the Head of Audit & Assurance, who has a dual
units and local operating companies. Compliance strategies were
Committee reporting line into the Head of Governance, Ethics and
developed and agreed to ensure global alignment of inherent risks.
Assurance and the Committee Chairman.102 GSK Annual Report 2012
Corporate governance
Audit & Assurance undertakes a continuous process of risk Monitoring risk and effectiveness of controls
assessment that contributes to the evolution of our audit strategies
The internal control framework (the Framework) has been in
and compilation and delivery of the audit schedule. This approach
operation for the whole of the year and continues to operate up
allows Audit & Assurance to respond expeditiously to changes in
to the date of approval of this report. The Framework assists in the
our business and risk environment and to ensure that our audit
identification, evaluation, and management of significant risks as
strategies are fit-for-purpose. The internal audit universe and audit
required by the UK Corporate Governance Code (UK Code) and is
programmes are managed using the Lead Audit Group principle
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving
where each business unit is aligned with an audit group for
business objectives. The Framework provides reasonable, but not
coordination and management of key communications. Programmes
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
are reviewed and approved collectively by the Assurance Leadership
Team, and the schedule is endorsed by the Committee. The Committee receives reports on areas of significant risk to the
Group and on related internal controls. Following consideration of
When issues or control deficiencies are identified during audit
these reports and those received via the Assurance framework, the
engagements, Internal Audit recommends processes for
Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of
improvement. Business unit management develops corrective action
controls.
plans to address the causes of non-compliance and gaps in internal
controls. These plans are tracked to completion and results reported There are areas of our business where it is necessary to take risks
to executive management and the Committee. to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such as investment
in R&D and in acquiring new products or businesses. During 2012,
Assurance reporting
the Committee, in conjunction with the full Board, considered and
Assurance reporting to the Committee follows a structured reviewed the nature and extent of these risks and the risks
programme, integrating reporting from business units and Audit associated with achieving the company’s strategic objectives.
& Assurance. In these cases, it is our objective to apply expertise in the prudent
Business units and global support functions are required to present management, rather than elimination, of risk. The Board’s review
reports annually to the ROCC and the Committee detailing their risk focuses on the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend
management and compliance approach, providing an assessment of to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other
the status of internal controls over key risks, and highlighting any investments, although it considers the risk of the company’s
significant compliance issues. Management must oversee risks that participation in these activities.
are considered important for their respective business units, The Board, through the Committee, has reviewed the assessment
including those risks that are designated as significant to the Group. of risks and the internal control framework that operates in GSK and
Information regarding the controls in place to manage these risks is has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in
provided to assure the Committee that these risks are adequately operation in the Group for the year covered by this report and up to
managed within the internal control framework. the date of its approval by the Board. The process followed by the
In addition to business unit reporting, significant compliance issues Board in reviewing the system of internal controls accords with the
and internal audit results and investigations are escalated to the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
ROCC and the Committee at the earliest opportunity. This is in accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, which
provide that the Board is responsible for determining the nature and
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its
The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme (ABAC) is part of strategic objectives. The Board provides oversight to ensure that
our response to the risk of bribery and corruption. It builds on our GSK maintains sound risk management and internal control systems.
values and existing standards to form a comprehensive and practical
Remuneration
approach to compliance in this complex risk area. The programme
is overseen by the ABAC team, who provide advisory support and
routine audits of this risk. To ensure the programme’s independence, Our Remuneration Report, which describes the level and
it will be regularly audited by an external firm that specialises in components of the remuneration of the Directors, is set out on
this risk area. Details of our ABAC programme are available on pages 109 to 136.
our website.
Risk management
Our risk management programme extends beyond legal and
regulatory issues and considers our overall strategy and changes in
the external environment. Furthermore, risk management principles
are embedded within management practices and are part of the
business strategy and objective setting process.
The Head of Audit & Assurance acts as the Global Risk Officer with
support from the Director, Risk Management. Risk Management is
responsible for maintaining GSK’s risk management framework and
supporting the business in identifying key risks. The management
of risks is owned by the business with support from Compliance
Business Partners. For details of risks affecting the Group, see ‘Risk
(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:7)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:23)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:24)(cid:22)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)
‘Legal proceedings’.GSK Annual Report 2012 103
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
& risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
The reports of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Corporate Membership
Responsibility Committees, describing the activities of those
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment
Committees during the year, are set out below.
dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below:
Audit & Risk Committee Report
Attendance at
full meetings
Members Committee member since during 2012
Judy Lewent (Chairman from
1 January 2013) 1 April 2011 5/6
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 20 May 2009 6/6
Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 6/6
Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 6/6
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 6/6
Tom de Swaan (Chairman
Dear Shareholder from September 2006 to
31 December 2012) 1 January 2006 6/6
I would like to thank my predecessor, Tom de Swaan, for his strong
Sir Robert Wilson 12 December 2003 6/6
leadership of the Committee over the course of the last six years.
Tom continues to serve as a member of the Committee and I will The Committee’s meetings are split into two parts:
value his wise counsel.
(cid:115)(cid:0) Part one deals with the more fundamental aspects of internal
The continuing effects of an uncertain global political and economic financial control and considers standing items, such as receiving
environment make it even more important to maintain a sharp focus reports from the external auditors and GSK’s Audit & Assurance
on the robustness of the company’s internal control and compliance team.
models. During the year, Global Ethics and Compliance concluded a
review of its global strategy, which led to the establishment of “One (cid:115)(cid:0) In furtherance of its risk responsibilities, the entire Board is invited
to attend Part two of the Committee’s meetings. This usually
Compliance”, a single, consistent global compliance framework
considers developments in the external risk environment and
independent of the business. “One Compliance” will champion
receives legal updates, business unit and corporate function
GSK’s values and seek to foster values-based decision making across
reports and reports on the outcome of Strategic Risk Evaluations
the Group’s business units and local operating companies.
and other topical issues.
During 2012, the Committee’s agenda has included the usual
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met
review of our financial results and controls, our business operations
on a quorate basis on five occasions.
across the world and their management of risk, as well as focusing
consideration on new emerging risks. At each meeting, a proactive Other attendees at Committee meetings include:
approach was taken to the identification and discussion of
emerging risks. Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required
In 2012, GSK entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) Chairman (cid:22)
with the US Department of Health and Human Services in relation
CEO (cid:22)
to past sales and marketing practices. Under the CIA, the company
CFO (cid:22)
is building improvements into its existing compliance programmes.
Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines (cid:22) The Committee has supported the Board in overseeing and
General Counsel (cid:22)
scrutinising the implementation of these improvements through the
receipt of quarterly CIA compliance updates. It also receives annual Financial Controller (cid:22)
training on the CIA and its compliance obligations. Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance (cid:22)
Head of Audit & Assurance (cid:22)
In line with the Group’s strategy to expand further and deeper into
Company Secretary – Secretary to the emerging markets, members of the Committee visited the Group’s
Committee (cid:22)
Indian operations in Delhi and were pleased to have the opportunity
to meet with locally based executives. During this visit, the Chief Medical Officer – Part two only (cid:22)
Committee members were able to gain a deeper understanding of Chief Product Quality Officer (cid:22)
the distinctive business and cultural dynamics of this emerging External auditors (cid:22)
market and to learn at firsthand how risk management is embedded
Main responsibilities
in our operations in India.
In my role as the new Chair, I will increase my understanding of the (cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:14)
Group by meeting with senior executives from GSK’s operations The Committee’s oversight role requires it to address regularly the
to discuss issues that have been brought to the Committee by relationships between management and the internal and external
management. I also intend to continue Tom’s work in making the auditors and to understand and monitor the reporting relationships
Committee more visible to the Group’s employees and to deepen my and tiers of accountability between them.
knowledge of the internal control and assurance framework through
The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET
working with the CET members and connecting with the network of
and senior managers covering key risk management and compliance Compliance Officers.
activities of the Group, including those covering R&D, manufacturing,
sales and marketing and corporate functions. Further details of the
reporting framework to the Committee are set out on pages 100 to
Judy Lewent
102 under ‘Accountability’.
Audit & Risk Committee Chairman104 GSK Annual Report 2012
Corporate governance
The Committee also reviews the quarterly results of the Group External auditors
prepared by management and considers reports on key
The Committee has primary responsibility for oversight of the
accounting issues.
external auditors. This includes deciding whether to seek to
The Committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis. re-tender the audit and making a recommendation to shareholders
They were revised in December 2012 to reflect corporate on the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external
governance best practice developments. auditors by assessing, on an annual basis, their qualifications,
expertise, resources and independence and the effectiveness
In 2012, the Committee worked to a structured programme of
of the previous audit process.
activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to
consider at each meeting, together with other matters timed to
Effectiveness of external auditors
coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle.
In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making
External auditors Reported on all critical accounting policies, a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors,
significant judgements and practices used by the the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance
Group, alternative accounting treatments which against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management,
had been discussed with management and their at the beginning of each year’s audit.
resultant conclusion, material written
As part of this process, the Committee considers feedback on the
communications with management and any
prior year’s external audit gathered through a client satisfaction
restrictions on access to information.
survey facilitated by the auditors’ client service review team, which
CFO Reported on the financial performance of the is independent of the engagement team that undertook the audit
Group and on technical financial and accounting work. The survey seeks feedback from the financial management
matters. team at corporate and business unit level. Having reviewed the
feedback, provided the Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness
General Counsel Reported on material litigation. of the external audit process, it will recommend the re-appointment
of the auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
Company Secretary Reported on corporate governance, securities and
disclosure practices. Details of the current criteria for judging the effectiveness of the
external auditors are set out below:
Heads of Audit & The majority of the heads of these groups
Assurance and the reported on the audit scope, annual coverage (cid:115)(cid:0) deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit
Group’s compliance and audit resources and on the results of audits
and audit groups conducted during the year. (cid:115)(cid:0) provide accurate, up-to-date knowledge of technical issues on
a timely basis
Company Secretary Reported on matters that affected the quality and
(cid:115)(cid:0) serve as an industry resource, communicating best practice
as Chair of the timely disclosure of financial and other material
and industry trends in reporting
Disclosure information to the Board, to the public markets
Committee* and to shareholders. This enabled the Committee (cid:115)(cid:0) adhere to all independence policies, including GSK’s policies,
to review the clarity and completeness of the ISA (UK&I) 220 and SEC requirements
disclosures in the published annual financial
statements, interim reports, quarterly and (cid:115)(cid:0) deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that
preliminary results announcements and other reflects local risks and materiality
formal announcements relating to financial
(cid:115)(cid:0) liaise with GSK’s Audit & Assurance function to avoid duplication
performance prior to approval by the Board.
of work and
Head of Audit & Reported on the progress of GSK’s global (cid:115)(cid:0) provide consistency of advice at all levels.
Assurance assurance plan to review the assurance for each
significant risk throughout the Group. Fee review
* See ‘Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002’ on page 242.
Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by the external auditors,
which is reviewed by management, the Committee considers cost
Qualifications of Audit & Risk Committee members
comparisons to ensure that it is fair and appropriate for GSK.
Details of the members’ financial, accounting or scientific experience There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committee’s
(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:64)(cid:47)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:79)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:7)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:24)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:25)(cid:17)(cid:14) capacity to recommend a particular firm as external auditor to
the Group.
Committee independence
Qualifications
The Committee, management, internal auditors and the full Board
work together to ensure the quality of the company’s corporate In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which
accounting and financial reporting. The Committee serves as the detail the relevant UK legislative, regulatory and professional
primary link between the Board and the external and internal requirements relating to external auditors and evaluates reports
auditors. This facilitates the necessary independence from from the external auditors on their compliance with the
management and encourages the external and internal auditors requirements, on the safeguards that have been established and
to communicate freely and regularly with the Committee. In 2012, on their own internal quality control procedures.
the Committee met both collectively and separately with the
Consideration is also given by the Committee to the need to include
external auditors, the Head of Audit & Assurance and the
the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditors from the market
Head of Governance, Ethics and Assurance without members
in its risk evaluation and planning.
of management being present.
Both Judy Lewent and Tom de Swaan are also members of the
Remuneration Committee, which allows them to provide input on
the Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and oversight
on any risk factors relevant to remuneration matters.GSK Annual Report 2012 105
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Audit partner rotation Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake
non-audit services.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement
partner every five years. The current audit partner commenced
(£m)
(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)
position after the audit of GSK’s financial statements for 2012
has been concluded. 17.3 17.3
16.5
After a robust review process by the Committee, together with
the involvement of the CEO and CFO to select his replacement,
the Committee has approved the appointment of a new audit
engagement partner with effect from the financial year
commencing on 1 January 2013.
Audit firm tendering
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have remained in place as auditors 5.7 6.4 5.9
since the Group’s inception in December 2000 and the audit
contract has not been put out to tender in that period. Their
performance has been reviewed annually by the Committee since
that time. As part of its review of the implications of the end
of the current audit partner’s five year term, the Committee 2010 2011 2012
considered the appropriateness of putting in place a tender Audit and assurance services
process. This included assessing the FRC’s most recent guidance All other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and
on the subject, the level of change currently underway inside treasury-related services
the Group and improvements to the auditors’ services, including fee
levels proposed by the auditors. The review concluded that a tender
was not in the company’s interests at this time and the Committee
Code of Conduct and reporting lines
consequently approved the appointment of the new audit partner.
However, the Committee agreed that this issue should be reviewed We also have a number of well established policies, including a Code
regularly as part of the annual appointment process. of Conduct, which is available on our website, and confidential
reporting lines for the reporting and investigation of unlawful
Non-audit services
conduct. No waivers to the Code of Conduct were made in 2012.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the
Committee evaluation
external auditors for the provision of certain services such as legal,
actuarial, internal audit outsourcing, or financial information The Committee’s annual evaluation was carried out by the
systems design. Where the external auditors are permitted to Committee Chairman and concluded that the Committee continued
provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor to operate effectively. In particular, the Committee’s agendas were
objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring thought to be comprehensive with helpful presentations on each
pre-approval by the Committee for such services. The total fees for area of the business on a rolling basis that addressed risk and audit
non-audit work can not exceed 50% of the audit fee, except in concerns. The Committee felt that this provided a solid framework
special circumstances where there would be clear advantage in within which it could continue to operate effectively to fulfil its role.
the company’s auditors undertaking such additional work. These
In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s deliberations, the
services may include audit, audit-related, tax and other services.
Committee members felt it would be helpful to find additional time
Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or categories for, and apply greater focus on, particular issues such as pipeline risk,
of service, and is subject to a specific budget. vaccines, clinical practices and local regulatory requirements.
Provision of non-audit services It was agreed that the business assurance reports could be simplified
further, with a clear focus on key risks and that management
There are guidelines which set out the Group’s policy on engaging presentations to the Committee should be more focused on risk.
the external auditors to provide non-audit services, which include:
(cid:115)(cid:0) ascertaining that the skills and experience of the external auditors
make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services
(cid:115)(cid:0) ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity
and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or
compromised and
(cid:115)(cid:0) ensuring that the fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual
audit fee.
The external auditors and management report regularly to the
Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance
with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
The Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a
case-by-case basis. Fees paid to the company’s auditor and its
(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:38)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:24)(cid:0)
to the financial statements, ‘Operating profit’.106 GSK Annual Report 2012
Corporate governance
Nominations Committee Report In fulfilment of the specific observations made during the most
recent external evaluation of the Board and the Committee in 2011,
the search process for new Non-Executive Directors to replace the
retiring Non-Executive Directors gave priority to candidates with
global CEO experience and/or knowledge of, and experience in,
emerging markets.
Egon Zhender and MWM, who specialise in the recruitment of high
calibre executives and Non-Executive Directors, were engaged to
ensure that the widest possible pools of Non-Executive candidates
were available to select from. Egon Zhender has a good
Sir Christopher Gent understanding of GSK’s business and also assists in the identification
Nominations Committee Chairman of talented individuals to fill other executive roles in the Group.
A dossier of potential Non-Executive appointees was considered by
Membership
the Committee and candidates were short-listed for interview on
The membership of the Nominations Committee (the Committee), merit and against objective criteria, after assessing their relevant
together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, qualifications and time commitments.
is set out below:
After interviewing suitable candidates, the Committee was
pleased to recommend to the Board Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich
Attendance at
full meetings as potential Non-Executive Directors. They were both appointed
Members Committee member since during 2012 to the Board with effect from 1 July 2012. The Board considered
Sir Christopher Gent that these appointments, together with the appointment of
(Chairman since Hans Wijers, who will join the Board on 1 April 2013, achieved the
1 January 2005) 9 December 2004 4/4 aim of appointing candidates who have either a deep knowledge
of emerging markets or experience of running a global company.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 2/2
Sir Crispin Davis 9 July 2009 4/4 It is currently intended that Sir Christopher will step down as
Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 3/4 Chairman at the end of 2015 and the Committee has therefore
Tom de Swaan 1 October 2012 2/2 commenced the search for his successor.
Sir Robert Wilson (cid:18)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:45)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:24) 4/4
Board and Committee changes
Larry Culp* (cid:18)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:45)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:24) 2/2
The Committee’s proactive approach to the refreshment of the
* Larry Culp resigned from the Board on 30 September 2012.
Board has resulted in orderly changes in the composition of the
In addition to the four scheduled meetings, the Committee met on a Board and its Committees. The changes are detailed below.
quorate basis on two occasions.
James Murdoch did not stand for re-election at the AGM in May,
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: Larry Culp decided to step down from the Board on 30 September
2012 after almost nine years of service and Sir Crispin Davis will not
Regular Attends stand for re-election at the AGM in 2013 after nine years of service.
Attendee attendee as required
Given the number of recent appointments and that two long-
Chief Executive Officer (cid:22) standing Board members will have stepped down from the Board
Head of Human Resources (cid:22) by May 2013, Sir Robert Wilson agreed to stand for re-election by
Company Secretary – Secretary to the shareholders for one further year before stepping down from the
Committee (cid:22) Board at the 2014 AGM. Sir Robert has significant knowledge of
Appropriate external advisers (cid:22) GSK’s business affairs and will provide continuity as the new Board
members settle into their roles. The Board has confirmed that
Sir Robert continues to demonstrate the characteristics of
Main responsibilities
independence in carrying out his role. Sir Robert will be succeeded
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:14) by Sir Deryck Maughan as Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director, with effect from the closure of the AGM in May 2013.
Work of the Committee during 2012
Tom de Swaan succeeded Sir Crispin Davis as Chairman of the
Appointment of new Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee and Judy Lewent succeeded Tom de
Swaan as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee on 1 January
During 2012, the Committee’s particular area of focus was the 2013. Tom has been a member of the Remuneration Committee
search for new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board in since May 2009 and will continue to be a member of the Audit &
advance of the planned retirements of long-serving Board members. Risk Committee following Judy’s appointment. Judy has been a
member of the Audit & Risk Committee since April 2011.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee evaluates
the particular skills, knowledge, independence, experience and Tom de Swaan and Professor Sir Roy Anderson were both appointed
diversity, including gender, that would benefit and balance the to the Nominations Committee and Lynn Elsenhans was appointed
Board most appropriately for each appointment. to the Corporate Responsibility Committee, all with effect from
1 October 2012. Judy Lewent was appointed as a member of the
During the search process, broad selection criteria are generally used
Remuneration Committee on 1 January 2013, while Dr Stephanie
which focus on achieving a balance between Continental European,
Burns’ appointment to the Remuneration Committee will take effect
UK, US and emerging markets experience on the Board, and having
from 1 May 2013. Finally, Jing Ulrich has been appointed to join the
individuals with expertise and capabilities developed in various
Audit & Risk Committee with effect from 1 May 2013 on the same
sectors and specialities.
date that Professor Sir Roy Anderson will step down from the Audit
& Risk Committee.GSK Annual Report 2012 107
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
CET succession Corporate Responsibility Committee Report
In terms of Executive succession planning, the Committee also
recommended the appointment of Christophe Weber and
Roger Connor to the CET in May and September 2012 as President,
Vaccines and President Designate, Global Manufacturing & Supply
(GMS), respectively.
Christophe Weber joined the Company in 1993 and has held
increasingly senior commercial positions, including Chairman and
CEO of GSK France and Senior Vice President and Regional Director,
Asia Pacific. He was appointed President Designate, Vaccines in
January 2011 and he subsequently assumed the role of President, Sir Christopher Gent
Vaccines in May 2012. Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman
(cid:50)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:25)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:58)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0) Membership
worked in a number of roles within finance and manufacturing
strategy. He was appointed Site Director of GMS’ site at Barnard The membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the
Committee), together with appointment dates and attendance at
(cid:35)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:70)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:37)(cid:47)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)
Strategy in February 2010, where he assisted the CEO with various meetings, is set out below:
projects. To ensure an orderly succession in GMS, Roger was
Attendance at
appointed President Designate, GMS, with effect from 1 January
full meetings
2012 and he assumed the role of President, GMS, in January 2013 Members Committee member since during 2012
in advance of David Pulman’s retirement from GSK.
Sir Christopher Gent
Committee evaluation (Chairman from
1 January 2005) 9 December 2004 4/4
The annual evaluation of the Committee’s effectiveness was Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 4/4
undertaken by the Chairman. The responses were shared with the
Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012 1/1
Committee and it was concluded that the Committee continued
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 4/4
to operate effectively. The Committee had successfully addressed
James Murdoch* 20 May 2009 0/2
the actions from the previous year’s review with the appointment
of Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich. Having mapped out the optimum * James Murdoch retired from the Board on 3 May 2012.
composition of the Board for the future, the Committee’s next
challenge is to select suitable candidates for the roles identified. Other attendees at Committee meetings may include:
Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required
Chief Executive Officer (cid:22)
Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines (cid:22)
General Counsel (cid:22)
Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance (cid:22)
Head of Global Communications (cid:22)
Head of Global Corporate Responsibility (cid:22)
Company Secretary – Secretary to the
Committee (cid:22)
Other Executives (cid:22)
Main responsibilities
The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:25)(cid:24)(cid:14)(cid:0)
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from
members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress
on meeting GSK’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) Principles is
reviewed.
The Committee annually reviews progress on the following five
CR Principles:
(cid:115)(cid:0) access to medicines
(cid:115)(cid:0) standards of ethical conduct
(cid:115)(cid:0) research and innovation
(cid:115)(cid:0) employment practices and
(cid:115)(cid:0) community investment.
GSK’s other CR Principles are discussed at least once every two
years. The Committee also reviews and approves the Corporate
Responsibility Report.108 GSK Annual Report 2012
Corporate governance
Work of the Committee during 2012 Work of the Committee in 2013
During 2012, the Committee focused its attention on several issues In 2013, the Committee will move to review progress on GSK’s
including: Corporate Responsibility (CR) commitments across four core themes,
which reflect the most important issues for responsible and
GSK’s CR Principles Committee’s area of focus during 2012 sustainable business growth:
Access to medicines R&D investment, including diseases of the
(cid:115)(cid:0) Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health
developing world and open innovation
needs; improving access to our products, irrespective of where
strategy
people live or their ability to pay; and controlling or eliminating
New business models and performance, diseases affecting the world’s most vulnerable people
including developing countries,
(cid:115)(cid:0) Our behaviour: putting the interest of patients and consumers
middle-income countries and ViiV
first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by
Healthcare
robust policies and strong compliance processes
Developing health systems for the future
in the developing world (cid:115)(cid:0) Our people: enabling our people to thrive and develop as
individuals to deliver our mission
Access challenges and performance in
Europe and the USA (cid:115)(cid:0) Our planet: growing our business, while reducing our
environmental impact across our value chain.
Standards of ethical Patient First incentive compensation
conduct programme and selling competency model
Committee evaluation
Further embedding ethical values in the
The annual evaluation of the Committee’s views on its effectiveness
organisation
was undertaken by the Chairman. The responses were shared with
Reinforcing values-based decision making
the Committee and it was concluded that the Committee continued
in the business
to operate effectively. As part of the review, it was agreed that the
Research and innovation Replacement, refinement and reduction in Terms of Reference and Committee Programme would be updated
use of animals in research and development to reflect the four core themes of CR. In addition, a further meeting
would be added into the Committee’s annual programme.
Conduct and public disclosure of clinical
research, transparency of detailed data
behind trial results
Scientific engagement – ensuring
distinction between scientific dialogue
and promotional activity by the business
Enhancing the assessment of the safety
and effectiveness of our medicines
Employment practices Organisational change
Employee relations and human rights
Inclusion and diversity
Leadership and employee development
Employee health, safety and well-being
Community investment Reinvestment of 20% of profits made in
Least Developed Countries back into
healthcare infrastructure
Pulse volunteering programme
Social impacts in supply Supplier standards, working practices and
chain diversity
Energy, water, waste reduction
programmes in GMS
Environmental performance of our suppliers
Product formats, including sustainable
packaging, reducing inhaler propellant and
child-resistant packagingGSK Annual Report 2012 109
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Remuneration report
Dear Shareholder
As the Chairman of GSK’s Remuneration Committee (the Committee), I am pleased to present our
Remuneration Report for 2012, for which we will be seeking your approval at our AGM in May 2013.
On behalf of the Committee, I want to thank my predecessor, Sir Crispin Davis, for his strong
leadership of the Committee over the last three and a half years in developing our current executive
remuneration structure. We feel that the current structure strikes a good balance between motivating
and retaining our Executives, while at the same time incentivising them to deliver long-term sustainable
returns to shareholders.
Executive remuneration
The economic and remuneration environments continued to evolve during 2012 and, accordingly, we
have made a number of adjustments to certain aspects of our executive remuneration arrangements to
ensure they remain appropriate for GSK and in the long-term interests of shareholders.
From 2013 onwards, we have capped the increases in pensionable earnings within our legacy UK
defined benefit pension schemes at 2% per annum for all participants, including Executives. This will
limit GSK’s overall future liabilities under these schemes.
In response to our undertakings within the Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the US Federal
Government, we have further strengthened our deferral mechanism and our ‘clawback’ ability for
Executives and senior US staff. Further details on this are set out on page 116 of our Annual Report.
Given the current external environment, the Committee decided that it would be appropriate to award
our Executive Directors salary increases of 2% for 2013. These increases are in line with average salary
increases for other UK and US employees across our business.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the competitiveness of Executives’ pay. As a result of this
review, the Committee decided that it would be appropriate to increase the maximum reward
opportunity for our CFO, Simon Dingemans, under the Performance Share Plan (PSP), from 350% to
400% of base salary. This will position his total remuneration more competitively against his UK peers.
It also reflects his increased experience in the role and will bring his PSP opportunity in line with that
of his predecessor.
2012 performance
Executive annual bonus awards and the values earned from long-term incentive (LTI) plans for 2012
were lower than 2011. This reflected a very challenging operating environment, particularly in Europe,
where the outlook for the Group significantly worsened during the year. Despite this, management
delivered strong sales performance in Emerging Markets, Consumer Healthcare (adjusting for the
disposal of the non-core OTC brands) and other growth businesses. In addition, delivery of cost and
financial efficiencies helped the Group maintain core EPS (at constant exchange rates) and return
£6.3 billion to shareholders. The Committee also recognised the continued strong output from R&D,
with six key new products filed with regulators since January 2012 – an unprecedented level of
productivity for the Group.
Agenda for 2013
During the course of 2013, the Committee will continue to keep the structure of our remuneration
arrangements under review and will prepare for the new executive remuneration reporting
requirements being introduced in the UK. We continue to be committed to regular dialogue with
shareholders and will hold our annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors later in 2013 to listen
to feedback on our remuneration policy.
Tom de Swaan
Remuneration Committee Chairman
5 March 2013110 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Total remuneration for 2012
Value earned
Base salary + Other benefits + Annual bonus + from long-term = Total
incentive remuneration
awards
Pay for performance
The total remuneration for 2012 for each of the current Executive Directors is set out in the table below:
Dr Moncef Slaoui,
Sir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans, Chairman,
CEO CFO Global R&D & Vaccines
2012 % of 2011 % of 2012 % of 2011 % of 2012 % of 2011 % of
£000 total £000 total £000 total £000 total $000 total $000 total
Salary 1,033 1,000 682 656 1,153 1,093
Other benefits 49 36 161 157 363 302
1,082 28% 1,036 15% 843 71% 813 50% 1,516 33% 1,395 28%
Pay for performance
Annual bonus – including the
amount deferred (see below) 905 2,000 343 827 1,404 1,747
Value earned from LTI awards:
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (1) 125 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a
Performance Share Plan (2) 1,780 3,738 n/a n/a 1,690 1,753
Share Option Plan – – n/a n/a – –
ShareSave – 5 n/a n/a – –
2,810 72% 5,743 85% 343 29% 827 50% 3,094 67% 3,500 72%
Total remuneration 3,892 6,779 1,186 1,640 4,610 4,895
Number Number Number
% £000 of shares % £000 of shares % $000 of ADS
Deferral of 2012 annual bonus
Amount deferred 50% 452 50% 171 50% 702
Number of shares or ADS purchased 31,114 11,783 15,859
Maximum matching award (3) 31,114 11,783 15,859
Full details of each of the elements of ‘Total remuneration’ above are given on the following pages of this Report.
Details Pay for performance Details
Base salary Pages 115 and 127 Annual bonus Pages 111, 116 and 127
Other benefits Pages 116 and 127 Investment of bonus in Deferred Annual Bonus Plan See table above and pages 117 and 132
Value earned from LTI awards:
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Pages 112, 117, 130 and 132
Performance Share Plan Pages 112, 117, 130 and 133 to 135
Share Option Plan Pages 112 and 130 to 131
ShareSave Pages 119 and 130 to 131
Notes:
(1) The performance periods for Dr Moncef Slaoui’s and Simon Dingemans’ first awards under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) end on 31 December
2013 and 31 December 2014 respectively. The earliest periods for which remuneration will be recorded under the DABP will therefore be the year ending
31 December 2013 for Dr Moncef Slaoui and the year ending 31 December 2014 for Simon Dingemans.
(2) The performance period for Simon Dingemans’ first award under the Performance Share Plan ends on 31 December 2013. The earliest period for which
remuneration will be recorded for Simon Dingemans under this Plan will therefore be the year ending 31 December 2013.
(3) The matching award is subject to performance targets. The maximum number of shares or ADS shown for the matching award does not include dividends
reinvested over the performance period.
(4) Details of the pensions accrued to date for each of the Executive Directors are given on pages 135 and 136.GSK Annual Report 2012 111
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Pay for performance for 2012
Annual bonus
For 2012, the annual bonus was based on the following performance targets:
Executive Director Financial performance Personal performance
Sir Andrew Witty
75% on core Group operating profit
25% on core Group profit
Simon Dingemans Individual objectives
before interest and tax
Dr Moncef Slaoui 50% on R&D performance and 25% on Vaccines performance
Performance against targets
Financial Core Group operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax
performance 2012 presented a challenging operating environment with austerity measures in Europe, including price cuts and
generic substitution. Despite this and the stretch targets set for the year by the Committee, the levels achieved for
core Group operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax were between threshold and target for
2012. This reflects strong sales growth in Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, Japan (excluding the adverse comparison
of Cervarix with the prior year) and our Consumer Healthcare business, adjusting for the disposal of the non-core
OTC brands, as well as effective cost control and financial efficiencies.
R&D and Vaccines performance
Targets for the year around pipeline growth and value were exceeded. Since January 2012, six new products have
been filed for approval and Phase III data is expected on 14 new assets in the next two years, including nine new
drugs/vaccines. Over the next three years, there is potential to launch 15 new assets and GSK is on track to deliver
its target long-term rate of return on R&D spend of 14%.
The table below sets out the matters the Committee considered in respect of the individual objectives set for each Executive Director.
Personal CEO
performance Sir Andrew showed strong leadership and resilience in a challenging operating environment, as conditions in Europe
deteriorated, to secure flat year on year sales (excluding disposals of over the counter (OTC) products), with growth
across Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific, Japan (excluding Cervarix) and the Consumer Healthcare business, adjusting
for the disposal of the non-core OTC brands. Positive cash generation from operations and disposal of non-core OTC
products enabled £6.3 billion to be returned to shareholders (dividends of £3.8 billion and shares repurchased of
£2.5 billion). The ongoing US Federal Government investigations with the US Department of Health & Human
Services were concluded with the signing of the Corporate Integrity Agreement.
Sir Andrew strengthened the core business through acquisitions and investments, completing three significant
transactions (HGS, Shionogi and Theravance) to increase GSK’s share of key future growth assets.
During the year, Sir Andrew also continued to advance the Group’s leadership position on corporate responsibility
issues, including action to increase the transparency of our clinical research and to improve access to our medicines.
GSK was again ranked in first position in the prestigious Access to Medicines Index.
Sir Andrew recommended the appointments of successors to two key Corporate Executive Team roles and the Board
subsequently approved the appointment of Roger Connor as the new President, Global Manufacturing & Supply and
Christophe Weber, as the new President, Vaccines.
CFO
One of Simon Dingemans’ main objectives for 2012 was to implement further Group-wide cost control and financial
efficiencies. These were delivered, contributing significantly towards 2012 overall performance and enabling GSK to
maintain its core earnings per share on a constant currency basis. He also achieved reductions in our effective core
tax rate to 24.4% (2011 – 25.9%), meeting our targeted rate of 25% two years ahead of expectations.
Simon drove the continued delivery of the Operational Excellence restructuring programme, which has delivered
approximately £2.5 billion of annual savings and remains on track to deliver £2.8 billion of annual savings by 2014.
He also made good progress towards improving the Group’s funding profile, with net finance expenses for the year
broadly similar to 2011 at £729 million, despite an increase in net debt of £5 billion in 2012.
Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines
Dr Moncef Slaoui led R&D and Vaccines through a very successful year. R&D exceeded the pipeline development and
value targets for the year (as detailed above). He also designed and implemented, with effect from January 2013,
a new integrated way of working between R&D and other parts of the business to create a strong, global product
launch capability for GSK’s pipeline of new medicines. Moncef also worked closely with Christophe Weber, as he
transitioned successfully into his new role as President, Vaccines.112 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Pay for performance for 2012 continued
Value earned from long-term incentive awards
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
The structure of the award granted to Sir Andrew Witty in 2010 and the performance level achieved in the three years ended
31 December 2012 are set out below:
2010 award Vesting
% of % of % of
Performance measure award Performance achieved maximum award
Relative TSR over 100% GSK’s TSR rank position was 6th in the comparator group of 11 pharmaceutical 30% 30%
3 years companies (GSK and 10 other companies).
Total vested in respect of 2012 30%
Performance Share Plan
The structures of the awards granted to Executives in 2009 and 2010 and the performance levels achieved in the three and four year periods
ended 31 December 2012 are set out below:
2009 award Vesting
% of % of % of
Performance measure award Performance achieved maximum award
Relative TSR over 30% GSK’s TSR rank position was 8th in the comparator group of 11 pharmaceutical 0% 0%
4 years companies (GSK and 10 other companies).
Total vested in respect of 2012 0%
Total vested in respect of 2011 49%
Total vested for 2009 award 49%
2010 award Vesting
Adjusted free cash 40% Adjusted free cash flow for the three years was £17.6 billion, which included 40% 16%
flow adjustments for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements,
favourable exchange rate movements and special pension contributions.
Relative TSR over 30% GSK’s TSR rank position was 6th in the comparator group of 11 pharmaceutical 30% 9%
3 years companies (GSK and 10 other companies).
Total vested in respect of 2012 25%
Relative TSR over 30% If performance is maintained in line with that over three years (above), GSK’s TSR 0% 0%
4 years to rank position would be 6th out of 10 using the revised pharmaceutical comparator
31 December 2013 group of GSK and nine other companies set out on page 115. This would be below
the threshold vesting level set out in the revised vesting schedule on page 135.
Potential total vesting for 2010 award 25%
Share Option Plan
The Share Option Plan awards granted to the Executives in 2009 were split into two elements, with 50% being dependent on performance
over the three year period ended 31 December 2011 and 50% on performance over the four year period ended 31 December 2012.
Vesting
% of % of % of
Performance measure award Performance achieved maximum award
Comparison of 50% GSK’s annualised EPS growth was below the threshold vesting level of growth in 0% 0%
compound annual RPI plus 3%.
increase in EPS with
the increase in RPI
over 4 years
Total vested in respect of 2012 0%
Total vested in respect of 2011 0%
Total vested for 2009 award 0%GSK Annual Report 2012 113
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Remuneration policy for 2013
The table below summarises how the Committee sets remuneration for the members of the CET (the Executives), the key elements of their
remuneration, including the requirement for them to hold minimum levels of shares in GSK, and the principal pension arrangements.
Page(s)
How the The Committee reviews the total remuneration of each Executive against that of executives from comparable 115
Committee sets companies, with a focus on local rather than global comparisons. The Committee aims to ensure that total
remuneration remuneration levels are competitive and are set by reference to the median of the appropriate comparator group.
The balance between fixed elements and pay for performance is carefully considered, with overall packages
weighted heavily towards the latter.
Fixed pay
Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually, with data from relevant comparator groups, and are influenced by: 115
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:14)(cid:0)
Other benefits Principally healthcare, car, personal financial advice, life assurance and, where relevant, cash in lieu of a money 116
purchase pension contribution and secondment and travel expenses.
Pay for performance
Safeguards A ‘clawback’ mechanism is incorporated into the annual bonus award process and this existing mechanism has 116
and risk been extended under the terms of the CIA. The Committee retains the discretion to reduce the grant or vesting
management levels of performance awards if appropriate.
Annual bonus The target and maximum bonus Targets: 116
opportunities for the Executive
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)
Directors are as follows: financial targets (core Group/business unit operating profit and core
Target Maximum Group profit before interest and tax) as agreed by the Board and the
% of % of Committee
salary salary
CEO 125 200 (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:66)(cid:74)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)
CFO 80 180
Chairman, Global R&D 85 200 (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36)(cid:13)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:0)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:83)
& Vaccines
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:13)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)
Deferred Annual From 2014, individuals must invest (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:87)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0) 117
Bonus Plan 25%, and may invest up to a total of four equally weighted performance measures: to
(DABP) 50%, of any bonus earned. (cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:10)(cid:27) 119
Deferred bonuses may be matched up (cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:10)(cid:27)(cid:0)
to one-for-one subject to performance (cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:109)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:10)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)
criteria. – Relative TSR+.
Performance The performance share awards for the * 25% vests at threshold, rising to 100% for stretching performance exceeding 117
Share Plan Executive Directors are as follows: the set threshold by a specified margin. to
(PSP) % of + Against comparator group comprising GSK and nine other pharmaceutical 119
salary companies, with 44% vesting at threshold, rising to 100% vesting for upper
CEO 600 quartile performance.
CFO 400
Chairman, Global R&D 500
& Vaccines
Share ownership To align the interests of Executives with shareholders, Executives are required to build up and maintain significant 119
requirements holdings of shares in GSK.
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:37)(cid:47)(cid:0) (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:20)(cid:0)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89)
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0) (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:0)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89)
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:37)(cid:52)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0) (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89)
Pensions
UK Executives GSK operates a defined contribution plan. UK Executives participating in the defined contribution plan benefit 120
from Company contributions of 20% of base salary, plus matched contributions of up to 5% of base salary.
Certain Executives are members of legacy final salary plans, which have been closed to new entrants since 2001.
From 2013, increases in pensionable earnings will be limited to 2% per annum. This limit applies to all employees,
including Executives, in legacy final salary plans in the UK.
US Executives GSK operates a Cash Balance Pension Plan (US Plan), a US Retirement Savings Plan (RSP), which is a 401k savings 120
scheme, and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP), a savings scheme open to Executives to accrue
benefits above US Government limits imposed on the RSP. US Executives participating in the US Plan benefit from
contributions of up to 38% of base salary. Those in the RSP and ESSP benefit from contributions of up to 6% (2%
plus matched contributions up to 4%) of the total of base salary and bonus, less any bonus deferred under the DABP.114 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Estimates of total future potential remuneration from 2013 remuneration packages
The tables below provide estimates of the potential total future remuneration for each of our Executive Directors in respect of the
remuneration opportunity granted to them in 2013. A range of potential outcomes is provided for each Executive Director.
Sir Andrew Witty, CEO
Other Total Annual Total pay for
Salary benefits fixed pay bonus DABP PSP performance Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Below threshold 1,059 49 1,108 – – – – 1,108
Threshold 1,059 49 1,108 424 63 1,894 2,381 3,489
Maximum 1,059 49 1,108 2,121 1,061 6,365 9,547 10,655
Simon Dingemans, CFO
Other Total Annual Total pay for
Salary benefits fixed pay bonus DABP PSP performance Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Below threshold 699 164 863 – – – – 863
Threshold 699 164 863 179 27 833 1,039 1,902
Maximum 699 164 863 1,260 630 2,801 4,691 5,554
Dr Moncef Slaoui, Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines
Other Total Annual Total pay for
Salary benefits fixed pay bonus DABP PSP performance Total
$000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000
Below threshold 1,180 450 1,630 – – – – 1,630
Threshold 1,180 450 1,630 322 48 1,758 2,128 3,758
Maximum 1,180 450 1,630 2,365 1,182 5,911 9,458 11,088
The assumptions underlying each scenario are outlined below:
All scenarios:
(cid:115)(cid:0) Other benefits have been estimated based upon actual amounts received in respect of 2012. The totals include all items required to be included
as taxable benefits, including those related to carrying out the Executive Director’s role such as secondment expenses
(cid:115)(cid:0) Each Executive Director is assumed to defer 50% of his 2013 annual bonus (the maximum permitted amount) and the matching award shown
under DABP reflects this. The amount shown under DABP reflects the matching award only (the amount of bonus deferred by the individual is
included under annual bonus)
(cid:115)(cid:0) The amounts shown above under DABP and PSP are based on the bonus amounts for 2013 and the relevant multiples of 2013 salary respectively.
They do not include amounts in respect of dividends reinvested over the performance periods. The actual amounts recorded as remuneration
from the DABP and PSP in 2016 and 2015 respectively will be calculated using the share or ADS prices on the vesting dates and will include
amounts in respect of related dividends reinvested over the relevant performance periods
(cid:115)(cid:0) The DABP and PSP are subject to performance measures over the three year periods 2014 to 2016 and 2013 to 2015 respectively.
Below threshold:
(cid:115)(cid:0) None of the pay for performance would be payable.
Threshold:
(cid:115)(cid:0) The minimum levels of pay for performance would be payable. It is assumed that the performance of each Executive Director would result in
an individual performance multiplier of 100% and therefore there is no increase to the financial performance element of the bonus
(cid:115)(cid:0) The threshold levels for the vesting of the awards under the DABP and PSP are discussed in detail on page 118.
Maximum:
(cid:115)(cid:0) It is assumed that the annual bonus is payable at the maximum percentages set out on page 113 and that the awards under the DABP and PSP
vest in full.
The remuneration granted in 2013 will be recorded as follows:
Earned or awarded Recorded as remuneration
in respect of in annual report for
Salary, other benefits and annual bonus 2013 2013
DABP (2013 bonus will be deferred in 2014) 2014–2016 2016
PSP 2013–2015 2015GSK Annual Report 2012 115
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
How the Committee sets remuneration When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration for 2013, which is primarily
set with reference to the UK cross-industry comparator group, the
The Committee gives consideration to remuneration policy and levels
Committee also referenced pay for a group of 23 European
for the wider employee population of the Group, as well as ensuring
companies selected based on their size and complexity.
that remuneration is consistent with industry and broader market
norms. The Committee sets total remuneration with reference to As was the case in 2012, the Committee’s review of the CEO’s
the median level of each Executive’s pay comparator group. When proposed remuneration for 2013 continued to identify a competitive
benchmarking total remuneration, the following principal elements gap in relation to the Global pharmaceutical and European
are considered: cross-industry groups, as highlighted by the diagram below.
(cid:115)(cid:0) Base salary
Summary of total package competitive positioning
(cid:115)(cid:0) Annual bonus – for comparison purposes it is assumed that for the CEO
each company achieves target performance
Total remuneration based on benchmarking criteria (£m)
(cid:115)(cid:0) DABP and PSP awards – it is assumed that these awards vest
12
at 50% of the maximum amount. For the DABP, it is assumed
that the Executive chooses to defer the maximum 50% of
his or her annual bonus.
The Committee also considers pension arrangements. 10
A significant proportion of an Executive’s total remuneration
package is based on pay for performance, with a particular
emphasis on long-term share-based incentives to closely align 8
Executives’ interests with those of shareholders. The balance
between the fixed pay and pay for performance elements of
remuneration varies depending on performance. The Committee 6
uses two primary pay comparator groups:
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical
comparator group comparator group 4
Anglo American France Sanofi
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical European cross-in dustry
AstraZeneca Switzerland Novartis group group group
Barclays Roche Holdings Lower quartile to median Median to upper quartile
BG Group UK AstraZeneca Previous position New position
BHP Billiton USA AbbVie*
BP Amgen** Fixed pay
British American Tobacco Bristol-Myers Squibb
Diageo Eli Lilly Base salary
HSBC Johnson & Johnson
Reckitt Benckiser Merck Base salaries are set by reference to the relevant
Rio Tinto Pfizer comparator group at a level considered appropriate to
Royal Dutch Shell secure and retain the talent needed to deliver GSK’s
Standard Chartered strategic priorities. Salary levels are reviewed annually
Tesco and are influenced by the wider pay environment and
Unilever the Executive’s role, experience and performance.
Vodafone
The Committee considers the prevailing economic conditions,
* Abbott Laboratories was included in the global pharmaceutical comparator
the market competitiveness of each Executive’s package and the
group for 2012. From 1 January 2013, Abbott Laboratories separated into two publicly traded companies. Going forward, it is anticipated that AbbVie, the positioning and relativities of pay across the broader GSK workforce.
research-based pharmaceuticals company, will be included in the remuneration
For 2013, the average salary increases for employees other than
benchmarking group, but will not be included in the TSR comparator group.
Executive Directors will be approximately 2% in both the UK and USA.
** Amgen is included for remuneration benchmarking, but is not included in
the TSR comparator group. The Committee decided to give the Executive Directors salary
As noted under the table above, the Global pharmaceutical increases in line with these average salary increases. Sir Andrew
comparator group is also used as the basis for the TSR comparator Witty, Simon Dingemans and Dr Moncef Slaoui each received a
group which features in our long-term incentive awards. The base salary increase of 2%.
Committee has decided for 2013 and onwards to exclude AbbVie
The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive Directors
as well as Amgen from the TSR comparator group, but will
over the last three years (or since appointment to the Board) and
undertake a full review of the constituents of this group during the
the salaries for 2013. Salary increases typically take effect in the first
year.
quarter of each year.
The primary pay comparator group for each of the Executive
Directors is shown in the table below: Base salary %
change
2010 2011 2012 2013 2013
Primary pay comparator group Sir Andrew Witty £1,000,000 £1,000,000 £1,040,000 £1,060,800 2%
UK Global Simon Dingemans* n/a £660,000 £686,400 £700,150 2%
Director cross-industry pharmaceutical
Dr Moncef Slaoui $975,000 $1,125,000 $1,159,000 $1,182,200 2%
Sir Andrew Witty (cid:22)
Simon Dingemans (cid:22) * Simon Dingemans joined the Board on 4 January 2011.
Dr Moncef Slaoui (cid:22)116 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Other benefits For the financial measures, the bonus threshold is 90% of target,
with the maximum being payable for achievement of 110% of
The Executives receive other benefits, including healthcare, car,
target. The bonus threshold of 90% reflects the stretching nature
personal financial advice, life assurance and matching shares
of the bonus targets.
under the ShareReward Plan.
The measures for each Executive Director are set out below:
Simon Dingemans is not accumulating benefits in any of GSK’s
pension plans and he receives cash in lieu of a money purchase
Personal
pension contribution. Executive Director Financial performance performance
Dr Moncef Slaoui was seconded to the UK in November 2010. Sir Andrew Witty 75% on core
At the time, it was intended that the secondment would be for a Group operating
period of two years. During the course of 2012, it emerged that Simon Dingemans profit 25% on Individual
core Group
there was a business need for him to remain in the UK during the objectives
Dr Moncef Slaoui 50% on R&D profit before
coming year. He will oversee the implementation of a new
performance interest and tax
integrated way of working between R&D and other parts of the
25% on Vaccines
business to create a strong, global new product launch capability
performance
for GSK’s pipeline of new medicines. The length of his secondment
will remain under review. In line with other senior GSK expatriates,
CEO
he receives appropriate secondment and travel expenses.
Individual performance objectives for Sir Andrew Witty are set
The cash value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors
by the Board in January each year. The Board focuses on the
in 2012 is shown on page 127.
strategic priorities that have been developed for the Group, which
Pay for performance are set out on page 16. For reasons of commercial sensitivity, his
specific objectives are kept confidential. Following the end of the
financial year, the Board reviews his performance generally and
Safeguards and risk management
against the set objectives to determine the appropriate bonus
The Committee believes in payment for performance. payable for his performance.
Specifically, the Committee does not want to reward failure
Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines
and views it as important that incentive payouts are only
made in circumstances when performance outcomes reflect Bonus measures for R&D employees, including Dr Moncef Slaoui,
genuine achievements against the original targets. are linked to pipeline performance. A robust governance structure
has been established to ensure that the bonus payable fairly reflects
Given the nature of GSK’s business and the increased focus on risk
R&D productivity and performance as well as achievement of
within the Group, the Committee has taken a number of steps to
profit targets. Performance and targets are reviewed by the R&D
ensure that our performance related pay underpins effective risk
Bonus Compensation Review Committee, which includes
management:
Sir Andrew Witty and the company’s two designated scientific
(cid:115)(cid:0) The Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee provides input on expert Non-Executive Directors, Professor Sir Roy Anderson and
the Audit & Risk Committee’s review of the Group’s performance Dr Daniel Podolsky.
and oversight on any risk factors relevant to remuneration
Other Executives
decisions
The CEO sets individual objectives for the other Executives in line with
(cid:115)(cid:0) Under the terms of the CIA, the existing ‘clawback’ mechanism
company strategy, and makes recommendations to the Committee
has been strengthened. The extensions of the mechanism include
regarding their performance against those objectives at the end of the
that, with effect from the 2013 annual bonus (payable in 2014),
year. Those recommendations are then considered by the Committee
Executive Directors and other CET members will be required to
before it determines the level of bonuses payable.
defer a minimum of 25% of their annual bonus into the DABP. A
separate recoupment committee has also been established to For 2013, the on-target and maximum bonuses for the Executive
investigate relevant claims of misconduct Directors are given in the table below.
(cid:115)(cid:0) There are also further safeguards relating to each of the business-
On-target bonus as Maximum as a %
specific performance measures under the LTI plans which are set a % of base salary of base salary
out in detail on page 117 Sir Andrew Witty 125% 200%
(cid:115)(cid:0) Long-term incentive awards for good leavers will normally vest at Simon Dingemans 80% 180%
the end of the original vesting period, rather than in the year of Dr Moncef Slaoui 85% 200%
departure. This ensures continued alignment with shareholders’ The table below sets out the bonuses earned by the Executive
interests following cessation of employment. Directors over the last three years, or since appointment.
Annual bonus 2010 2011 2012
000 000 000
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of Sir Andrew Witty £1,177 £2,000 £905
GSK’s annual financial and strategic business targets and Simon Dingemans* n/a £827 £343
delivery of personal objectives. Dr Moncef Slaoui $1,434 $1,747 $1,404
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal * Simon Dingemans was appointed to the Board on 4 January 2011.
review of performance against stretching financial targets. This
outcome is then adjusted to reflect individual performance by
applying an individual performance multiplier.GSK Annual Report 2012 117
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Long-term incentive plans Performance measures
Long-term incentives take the form of a maximum number of shares The focus of the Committee has been to improve the
(on award). The number of shares received by an Executive depends
alignment of Executive remuneration arrangements with
on performance over the performance period.
our key strategic priorities.
To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments
After consultation with shareholders, from 2011, DABP and PSP
to the Executives, notional dividends are reinvested and paid out
awards made to Executives comprise two business-specific
in proportion to the shares earned.
performance measures on business diversification performance
and R&D new product performance, together with adjusted free
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan
cash flow and relative TSR.
The Deferred Annual Bonus Plan encourages long-term The Board recognises the possibility that the company’s goals
shareholding, discourages excessive risk taking and helps may evolve over time. Therefore the Committee intends to review
focus on GSK’s key strategic priorities. the performance measures periodically to ensure that they
remain appropriate.
Up to 50% of any annual bonus earned may be deferred into shares,
or ADS where appropriate, for three years. The company will match Details of the performance measures, targets and the performance
shares or ADS up to one-for-one depending on the company’s thresholds for the 2013 long-term incentive awards are given in
performance against the measures outlined on page 118 during the the table set out on page 118.
three year performance period.
Safeguards on vesting
The levels of participation for the last three years for the Executive
Directors are shown in the table below, together with the maximum In addition to setting robust targets, the Committee has also
matching awards granted in 2013 in respect of the deferrals of the implemented a number of safeguards to ensure that targets are met
2012 bonuses. in a sustainable way and that any performance outcome reflects
genuine achievement against the original targets and therefore
2013 represents the delivery of value for shareholders.
% of total bonus deferred Matching
Executive Director 2010 2011 2012 award For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition or
Sir Andrew Witty 32% 35% 50% 31,114 shares
divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the event.
Simon Dingemans n/a 50% 50% 11,783 shares Any major adjustment in the calculation of performance measures
Dr Moncef Slaoui 50% 50% 50% 15,859 ADS will be disclosed to shareholders on vesting.
Under the terms of the CIA, for awards made in 2014 and beyond, The table below sets out the principal safeguards for the
Executives are required to defer 25% of any bonus earned into performance measures.
shares, or ADS where appropriate, for three years. They may also
choose to invest up to a further 25% of any bonus earned (i.e. up Performance measure Safeguards on vesting
to a maximum of 50%). Business diversification (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)
performance opportunistic events, e.g. pandemics, unless
Performance Share Plan the Committee considers that this did not
add to shareholder value and provided that
The Performance Share Plan ensures focus on the delivery underlying performance was sufficiently
of GSK’s strategic priorities and long-term shareholder positive.
returns relative to other pharmaceutical companies. (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:14)
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)
Under the Performance Share Plan, awards are made which vest be reduced if above market growth has not
depending on the company’s performance over a three year been achieved.
performance period against the measures outlined below.
R&D new product (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:70)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)
There is a limit of six times base salary on the maximum initial value performance has been made during the period towards
of performance shares that may be granted to an individual in any GSK’s target of a return on R&D investment
one year. of 14%.
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)
The table below shows award levels for 2011, 2012 and 2013 for
opportunistic events, e.g. pandemics, unless
each Executive Director in line with that policy:
the Committee considers that this did not
add to shareholder value and provided that
2011 2012 2013
Award level Award level Award level underlying performance was sufficiently
as % of as % of as % of 2013 positive.
base salary base salary base salary Award
Adjusted free cash flow (cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)
Sir Andrew Witty* 500% 600% 600% 437,744
may include exchange rate movements, major
shares
legal and taxation settlements and special
Simon Dingemans 350% 350% 400% 192,613 pension contributions.
shares
Dr Moncef Slaoui 500% 500% 500% 133,521
ADS
* 25% of Sir Andrew Witty’s 2012 and 2013 PSP awards are subject to a
further 2 year vesting period (5 years in total). No additional performance
criteria apply during this period.118 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
2013 performance targets
Inevitably, measures linked directly to strategy are commercially sensitive. In particular, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to
disclose the targets for business diversification performance and R&D new product performance at grant, as it may result in competitive
harm. However, the targets will be disclosed fully in the 2015 Remuneration Report at the end of the performance period, together with
details of the extent to which they have been met. The Committee has also undertaken to provide updates on achievements to date against
the targets during the performance period. The 2013 performance targets are set out in the table below.
For awards made in 2013 and onwards, Dermatology will be removed as a separate category from the business diversification performance
measure. Dermatology brands are commercialised within our Pharma and Consumer Healthcare regional organisations and much of our
focus for this business is in Emerging Markets. The principal contribution of Dermatology will continue to be captured within the Emerging
Markets, Consumer Healthcare and Japan elements of the diversification measure.
Strategic % of
objectives Long-term incentive measures for 2013 awards award Vesting schedule for 2013 awards
Grow Business diversification performance 25%
Incentivises growth of a global, diversified
business
Designed to focus on turnover in our major Proportion of
(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:26)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:27)(cid:0) award
and Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan Achievement available
Below threshold 0%
Pharmaceuticals businesses (excluding Vaccines).
Threshold 25%
Aggregate revenue target for these business Maximum 100%
divisions over three-year performance period
should reflect strong growth against previous
periods and above market growth.
Deliver R&D new product performance 25%
Recognises importance of R&D to future Maximum
business growth expressed as %
Measure of threshold
Revenue target based on New Product Sales
Business diversification 114%
to incentivise better R&D performance. New
performance
Products are defined as products launched in the
performance period and the two preceding years.
R&D new product 122%
Therefore, for the 2013-15 performance period, performance
products launched in the years 2011-15 will be
included in the measurement.
Aggregate three-year revenue target for 2013
awards for New Product Sales should reflect
growth on historic performance.
Simplify Adjusted free cash flow 25%
Recognises importance of effective working
Three year
capital and cash management
adjusted free
The reductions in the targets reflect a number cash flow targets % vesting
of factors, including adjustment for the loss of Below threshold 0%
certain product sales that will not recur (including Threshold £14.06 billion 25%
a number of older genericised brands), revised £14.49 billion 50%
expectations of the performances of our European £15.94 billion 75%
businesses and the higher levels of capital Maximum £16.66 billion 100%
investment and working capital required
to commercialise the product pipeline.
Relative TSR 25% Proportion vesting
100%
Focuses on delivery of value to shareholders
100%
Relative TSR using a comparator group
comprising GSK and nine other global 75%
pharmaceutical companies. 72%
Relative TSR is measured over three years,
50%
using a twelve-month averaging period.
44%
TSR is measured in local currency.
25%
0%
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
TSR rank position Upper quartile
performanceGSK Annual Report 2012 119
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Historical vesting for GSK’s LTIs
The following table shows the vesting levels of GSK’s deferred annual bonus, performance share and share option awards to Executives
since 2004. A TSR vesting percentage of 0% indicates that GSK’s relative TSR performance was below the median of the comparator group
for that performance period.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Performance Share Plan Share Option Plan
Vesting
Vesting Vesting under Vesting
under under adjusted free under
TSR TSR cash flow Total EPS
Year of measure measure measure vesting measure
grant Performance period % % % % %
2004 2005 – 2007 n/a 38.5 n/a 38.5 100
2006 2006 – 2008 n/a 0 n/a 0 50.7
2007 2007 – 2009 n/a 35 n/a 35 0
2008 2008 – 2010 n/a 35 n/a 35 0
2009 2009 – 2011/12 n/a 9 40 49 0
2010* 2010 – 2012/13 30 9 16 25 0
* The PSP awards made in 2010 included 30% in respect of relative TSR and 40% in respect of adjusted free cash flow, both with a three year performance period.
The remaining 30% was in respect of relative TSR over a four year performance period ending 31 December 2013 and this will not be assessed until next year.
Other all-employee share plans Share ownership requirements
The Executives participate in various all-employee share plans in To align the interests of Executives with those of
either the UK or the USA, including ShareReward and ShareSave. shareholders, Executives are required to build up and
The ShareReward Plan is a UK HM Revenue & Customs approved maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time.
plan open to all UK employees on the same terms. Participants
Current share ownership requirements (SOR) are set out in the table
contribute up to £125 a month from their gross salaries to purchase
below:
GSK shares and the company matches the number of GSK shares
bought each month under this arrangement. Sir Andrew Witty and
Share ownership requirement
Simon Dingemans each contribute £125 a month to buy shares
CEO 4 x base salary
under the ShareReward Plan.
Other Executive Directors 3 x base salary
The ShareSave plan is a UK HM Revenue & Customs approved Other CET members 2 x base salary
plan open to all UK employees. Participants may save up to £250
a month from their net salaries for a fixed term of three years and Shareholdings for the purpose of SOR as at 1 March 2013 and
at the end of the savings period they have the option to buy GSK achievement of SOR, based upon an average share price for the 90
shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price set at the working days preceding that date, were:
launch of each savings contract. Sir Andrew Witty and Simon
Holdings for SOR Dingemans make monthly contributions into the ShareSave Plan.
purposes as at
Increase in Achievement
Dilution limits
31 December 1 March shareholding of SOR
2011 2013 % %
All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution limits
Sir Andrew Witty 253,794 554,278 118 182
consistent with the guidelines provided by the Association of British
Simon Dingemans 40,171 82,583 106 55
Insurers. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten year period for all
plans and 5% in any rolling ten year period for executive share plans. Dr Moncef Slaoui 192,105 373,224 94 233
Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last 10 years Executives are required to continue to satisfy these shareholding
up to 31 December 2012 is as follows: requirements for a minimum of twelve months following retirement
from the company.
10%
5%
3.63% 3.34%
Actual Limit Actual Limit
All GSK employee share plans Executive share plans120 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Pensions US pension arrangements
Pensions provide an important tool for creating a long-term In the USA, GSK operates a Cash Balance Pension Plan which
provides for an annual contribution and interest on the sum
culture and loyalty.
accumulated in the cash balance account, but no contractual
The Executives participate in the Group’s senior executive pension promise to provide specific levels of retirement income. The plan
plans. The pension arrangements are structured in accordance with incorporates an Executive Pension Credit for senior US executives.
the plans operated for Executives in the country in which they are Contribution rates under the plan range from 15% to 38% of
likely to retire. Details of individual arrangements for the Executive base salary depending on grade. All current senior US executives
Directors are set out on pages 135 and 136. are eligible for the Executive Pension Credit.
New Executives will be eligible to participate in either a defined For capped employees in the USA, benefits above the cap are
contribution scheme in the UK (depending on personal provided through an unfunded non-qualified plan.
circumstances against relevant tax restrictions) or a cash balance
GSK also operates a US Retirement Savings Plan (RSP), a 401k
pension plan in the USA.
savings scheme open to all US employees, and the Executive
Existing obligations under legacy defined benefit schemes in the Supplemental Savings Plan, a savings scheme open to Executives
UK will continue to be honoured. to accrue benefits above US Government limits imposed on the
RSP. Contributions to both plans are invested in a range of funds
UK pension arrangements and the value of the accumulated funds is paid out after leaving
the company. The combined contribution rates under the plans
The company currently operates a defined contribution plan and
are up to 6% (2% plus matched contributions up to 4%) of the
legacy final salary plans, which are closed to new entrants.
total of base salary and bonus, less any bonus deferred under
Executives participating in the defined contribution plan receive a the DABP.
company contribution of 20% of base salary. They will also have the
opportunity to receive up to a further 5% in matched contributions
in line with the policy for all other members of the pension plan.
Since 2010, the UK Government has announced a series of changes
to the taxation of pensions which continue to impact the pensions
of employees within GSK. The taxation changes will have significant
negative consequences and the effectiveness of pensions will be
much reduced.
Pensions have been, and continue to be, an important tool for
creating a long-term culture and promoting employee retention.
Therefore, the Committee decided that existing pension promises
would be honoured and employees with pensions impacted by the
changes would have the opportunity for their pension above the
new limit to be delivered via GSK’s existing unfunded scheme at
that time. The legacy final salary plans provide for up to two-thirds
of final salary at normal retirement age. Under these plans, actuarial
reduction factors apply where a participant leaves employment of
his or her own accord before the age of 60.
With effect from April 2013, a cap on pensionable earnings will
be introduced, which limits pensionable earnings increases to 2%
per annum. This cap applies to all employees, including Executive
Directors, in legacy defined benefit schemes in the UK.GSK Annual Report 2012 121
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Update on performance of ongoing awards
Following the introduction of the LTI performance measures directly linked to GSK’s strategic objectives, the Committee
undertook to provide an update on performance for outstanding LTI awards. It should be noted that the actual vesting
levels will only be determined based on performance over the full three year performance periods.
The interim positions provided below should only be regarded as an indication of how management has performed to
date and should not be regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels.
2011 awards with a performance period to 31 December 2013
The Committee reviewed the performance of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan awards granted to the Executive
Directors in 2011. The performance achieved in the two years to 31 December 2012 was as follows:
Estimate of likely vesting
based on performance
to date
% of
Strategic Performance % of maximum % of total
objectives measures award Performance achieved to date vesting award
Grow Business 25% Sales across Vaccines, Consumer Heathcare, Dermatology and 42% 11%
diversification Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan were £28.2 billion for
performance 2011 and 2012. If continued at this level, this would deliver vesting
between threshold and maximum.
A more detailed update on performance for 2012 is provided on
page 122 and the 2011 annual report sets out details of
performance in 2011.
Deliver R&D new 25% The performance target for the 2011 award measures sales in new 0% 0%
product R&D products launched from 2009 – 2013. On this basis, total sales
performance for 2011 and 2012 were £2.3 billion. If continued at this level, this
would deliver performance below threshold with no vesting.
A more detailed update on performance for 2012 is provided on
page 122 and the 2011 annual report sets out details of
performance in 2011.
Simplify Adjusted free 25% The target range for the aggregate three-year adjusted free cash 66% 16%
cash flow flow is between £16.15 billion for threshold vesting and
£19.15 billion for maximum vesting. Based on the performance
measure definition, the adjusted free cash flow for 2011 and 2012
is £10.95 billion. If continued at this level, this would deliver vesting
between threshold and maximum.
Relative TSR 25% For the period from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2012, GSK’s 72% 18%
TSR was ranked 4th using the revised pharmaceutical comparator
group of GSK and nine other companies set out on page 115. If
the ranking position remains at this level, this would deliver vesting
under the revised vesting schedule set out on page 135 of between
threshold and maximum.
Potential total vesting for 2011 awards 45%
The vesting schedules for each of the performance criteria are given on pages 134 and 135 of this report.
If the above levels of performance under each measure are maintained until the end of the performance period on 31 December 2013,
vesting of the 2011 awards would be as shown. However, performance is only measured at the end of the three year period and
performance to date is not necessarily an indication of the final vesting level.
The Committee, having reviewed performance for the two year period, remains of the view that the targets for the 2011 awards under
both new measures remain suitably robust and stretching. The actual targets, together with details of the extent to which they have been
met, will be disclosed in full at the time of vesting.122 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
2012 awards with a performance period to 31 December 2014
The Committee reviewed the performance of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan awards granted to the Executive
Directors in 2012. The performance achieved in the year to 31 December 2012 was as follows:
Estimate of likely vesting
based on performance
to date
% of
Strategic Performance % of maximum % of total
objectives measures award Performance achieved to date vesting award
Grow Business 25% Vaccines 51% 13%
diversification Cervarix sales in 2012 were lower than in 2011, which benefited from the HPV
performance vaccination catch-up programme in Japan, now complete. This led to an overall
decline in Vaccines sales of 2% to £3.3 billion. Excluding Cervarix, Vaccines
sales performed well, increasing by 4%. This increase was driven by strong
sales in Infanrix/Pediarix, Rotarix, Boostrix and Synflorix.
Consumer Healthcare
Consumer Healthcare sales were flat for the year at £5.1 billion. Excluding
the non-core OTC brands that were divested in 2012, sales increased by 5%,
reflecting strong growth across Oral care, Nutrition and Total wellness, but partly
offset by a small decline in Skin health. On a regional basis, growth in Europe
was flat, growth in the USA was 2% and growth in the Rest of World was 12%.
Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan (excluding Vaccines and
Dermatology)
The Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific Pharmaceuticals businesses (excluding
Vaccines and Dermatology) had sales of £3.6 billion for the year, representing
strong growth in Respiratory, combined with good performance in a number
of established brands and the newer Oncology business. For Japan, sales
(excluding Vaccines and Dermatology) were £1.7 billion. Japan pharmaceuticals
sales grew by 3%, with strong performances from the recently launched
products, Lamictal, Avodart and Volibris. This was partly offset by the impact of
the mandatory biennial price cut and increasing generic competition to Paxil.
Dermatology
Sales in Dermatology declined 2% to £850 million, primarily as a result of the
decline in the USA, which suffered from the impact of generic competition
to Evoclin, Extina and Duac. EMAP sales grew 7% to £388 million, reflecting
strong growth in the promoted brands of Dermovate and Bactroban. EMAP
performance continued to be impacted by ongoing supply issues which are now
close to resolution. Overall, if performance continued at this level, this would
deliver vesting between threshold and maximum.
Deliver R&D new 25% The performance target for the 2012 awards measures sales in new R&D 63% 16%
product products launched from 2010 – 2014. On this basis, sales for new products in
performance 2012 were £1.2 billion. This includes strong sales from Votrient, Duodart/Jalyn,
Promacta and Lamictal XR. GSK is on track to deliver its target long-term rate
of return on R&D spend of 14%. Overall, if performance continued at this level,
this would deliver vesting between threshold and maximum.
Simplify Adjusted free 25% For the 2012 awards, the target range for the aggregate three-year adjusted 52% 13%
cash flow free cash flow is between £17.30 billion for threshold vesting and £20.52
billion for maximum vesting. Based on the performance measure definition, the
adjusted free cash flow for the period is £5.05 billion. If performance continued
at this level, this would deliver vesting between threshold and maximum.
Relative TSR 25% For the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012, GSK’s TSR was 0% 0%
ranked 7th using the revised pharmaceutical comparator group of GSK and
nine other companies set out on page 115. If the ranking position remains at
this level, this would deliver vesting under the revised vesting schedule set out
on page 135 of below threshold.
Potential total vesting for 2012 awards 42%
The vesting schedules for each of the performance criteria are given on pages 134 and 135 of this report.
If the above levels of performance under each measure are maintained until the end of the performance period on 31 December 2014,
vesting of the 2012 awards would be as shown. However, performance is only measured at the end of the three year period and
performance to date is not necessarily an indication of the final vesting level. The Committee, having reviewed performance for the year,
remains of the view that the targets for the 2012 awards under both new measures remain suitably robust and stretching. The actual targets,
together with details of the extent to which they have been met, will be disclosed in full at the time of vesting.GSK Annual Report 2012 123
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
& remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
The Remuneration Committee Committee meetings usually begin with a closed session, during
which only members of the Committee, the Company Secretary and
Role of the Committee the external adviser are present. Other individuals may also be
invited to attend Committee meetings during the year. Executives
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration and other Committee attendees are not involved in any decisions,
policy so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its and are not present at any discussions, regarding their own
Executives. The policy is regularly reviewed to ensure that it is remuneration.
consistent with the company’s scale and scope of operations,
Other attendees at Committee meetings include:
supports the business strategy and growth plans and helps drive
the creation of shareholder value.
Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required
Terms of reference
CEO (cid:22)
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the CFO (cid:22)
company’s website. The terms of reference, which are reviewed Head of Human Resources (cid:22)
as a minimum on an annual basis, were last revised in December Head of Reward (cid:22)
2012 in the light of best practice and corporate governance Company Secretary – Secretary to the
developments.
Committee (cid:22)
Governance Committee Adviser – Deloitte LLP (cid:22)
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to be Adviser to the Committee
independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the UK
The Committee has access to external advice as required. Deloitte
Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of Sir Christopher
LLP (Deloitte) has been appointed by the Committee to provide it
Gent, Chairman of the company, who was independent on
with independent advice on executive remuneration. During the
appointment.
year, Deloitte provided independent commentary on matters under
The Committee met six times during 2012, with each member consideration by the Committee and updates on best practice,
attending as follows: legislative requirements and market practice.
Attendance Deloitte also provided other consulting, tax and assurance services
Committee at full to GSK during the year, but did not provide advice on executive
member meetings remuneration matters other than for the Committee.
Members since during 2012
Tom de Swaan*+ 20 May 2009 6/6 The Committee conducted a formal review of Deloitte’s
(Chairman from 1 January 2013) performance in July 2011 against an established set of criteria that
Sir Crispin Davis(cid:378) enabled a full consideration of the Committee’s needs.
(Chairman from 20 May 2009 1 July 2003 6/6 Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and,
to 31 December 2012) as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation
Sir Christopher Gent 1 January 2007 6/6 to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The code of
Judy Lewent+ 1 January 2013 N/A conduct can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
Sir Deryck Maughan* 1 July 2012 2/3 Towers Watson and Pay Governance provided additional market
Larry Culp(cid:378) 1 January 2004 4/4 data to the Committee.
James Murdoch*(cid:378) 1 October 2009 2/3
Commitment to shareholders
* Tom de Swaan, Sir Deryck Maughan and James Murdoch were each unable
to attend one meeting for personal reasons. For the meetings they were The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and
unable to attend, they reviewed the papers and provided their views on holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss and
the matters under consideration to the Committee Chairman in advance.
take feedback on its remuneration policy and governance matters.
+ Tom de Swaan was also the Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee In particular, the Committee discusses any significant changes to the
until 31 December 2012 when he was succeeded by Judy Lewent.
policy or the measures used to assess performance.
(cid:378) Sir Crispin Davis stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2012.
James Murdoch retired from the Board on 3 May 2012 and Larry Culp resigned The annual meetings were held in November 2012. Sir Crispin Davis
from the Board on 30 September 2012. shared progress on remuneration matters in the last 12 months and
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met proposals for 2013. Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman, updated
on a quorate basis on four occasions, principally to approve the attendees on corporate governance developments. Tom de Swaan
formal grant and, based on performance, the vesting of long-term was also in attendance.
incentive awards in accordance with GSK’s remuneration policy.
At the company’s AGM in May 2012, the resolution to approve
the Remuneration Report was passed, with 95.7% of the votes cast
in favour.124 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Principal activities and matters addressed during 2012
The Committee’s principal activities and matters addressed during 2012 are set out below:
Remuneration
Items specific to:
Month Overall Annual bonus LTIs Governance and other matters
January Approve Executives’ 2012 Review and approve Review LTI measures and Set Committee’s agenda
remuneration, including Executives’ 2011 targets for 2012 for 2012
salaries of CEO, CFO and bonuses Review draft Remuneration
Chairman, R&D Approve bonus Report
Remuneration environment calculation principles
update Set CEO 2012 bonus
objectives
February Overview of bonuses for Review LTI performance
employees below CET targets and outcomes and
approve 2009 LTI award
vesting
Set 2012-2014 LTI award
targets
March Grant 2012 LTI awards to Approve Remuneration
Executives and below Report
Approve Deferred Annual
Bonus Plan elections and
matching awards
May Review CIA ‘clawback’ Consider review of Review of voting outcomes
draft requirements annual bonus plan on 2011 Remuneration
Report
Review of UK Government
remuneration consultations
July Review CIA final ‘clawback’ Grant interim 2012 LTI Review AGM feedback
arrangements awards (below Executives)
Approve remuneration for
new CET appointee
Review of general market
developments
Review of CEO’s and CFO’s
pay competitiveness
October Review of Chairman’s fees Review of 2012 bonus Approve changes to LTI Review of UK Government
Agree 2013 salary review approval process for plans to give effect to remuneration proposals
process for Executives Executives CIA’s executive financial Planning Committee work
Review of CFO’s pay recoupment plan for 2013
competitiveness
November Annual meetings with investors
December Review Executives’ Consider feedback from
remuneration market data annual meetings with
and competitiveness investors
Annual Committee
evaluation results 2012GSK Annual Report 2012 125
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Executive Director terms and conditions Any outside appointments are considered by the Nominations
Committee to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest
Executive Director contracts and are then approved by the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
It is the company’s policy that remuneration earned from such
The policy set out below provides the framework for contracts for appointments may be kept by the individual Executive.
Executive Directors.
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors
Policy
How their fees are set
Notice period on 12 calendar months
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non-
termination by
Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid
employing company
by other companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to
or Executive
the limits contained in GSK’s Articles of Association.
Termination payment 1 x annual salary
The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and
payable on termination by the company
making recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to
Vesting of LTIs Rules of relevant incentive plan, as the Non-Executive Directors.
approved by shareholders
Review of the Chairman’s fees
Pension Based on existing arrangements and
terms of relevant pension plan Sir Christopher Gent took up the role of Chairman in January 2005,
since when his fees have only been increased once, in March 2008,
Non-compete clause 12 months from termination
when they were increased from £575,000 to £675,000. Under this
notice date*
arrangement, Sir Christopher received 20% of his fees as shares,
which are deferred until he steps down from the Board.
* The ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period (and a non-solicitation
restriction) on an Executive is considered important by the company to have the
In 2012, following a review of Sir Christopher Gent’s performance
ability to protect the Group’s intellectual property and staff. In light of this, the
Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation and independently sourced data, the Board decided to increase the
in the contracts. Chairman’s fees from £675,000 to £710,000. The change took
effect from 1 January 2013. At the request of the Chairman, the
The contracts for new Executives will not normally include a bonus
increase of £35,000 is being delivered in GSK shares. Therefore
element in any termination payment.
£170,000 (or approximately 24%) of Sir Christopher’s total fee per
The terms of the contracts seek to balance commercial imperatives annum is now delivered in shares.
and best practice. Where the company considers it important that
an individual does not work elsewhere during his or her notice Review of Non-Executive Director fees
period, it may make a compensatory payment in respect of bonus
Non-Executive Director fees were last increased in March 2008.
for the period of restraint.
Since then there has been an increase in the time commitment,
The following table sets out the details of the Executive Directors’ demands and responsibility placed on non-executive directors. The
service contracts: fees were reviewed in July 2011, and although a market shortfall
was noted, it was decided that fees would not be increased at that
Current Directors Date of contract Effective date Expiry date time.
Sir Andrew Witty 18 June 2008 22 May 200831 August 2024 Following a further review of independently sourced data in 2012,
Simon Dingemans 8 September 2010 4 January 2011 30 April 2028 the Board agreed that it was appropriate to increase the standard
Dr Moncef Slaoui 21 December 2010 21 December 2010 1 August 2019 annual fee by £10,000 to £85,000, with effect from 1 January 2013
(25% of fees will continue to be delivered as shares deferred until
No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of a
the Non-Executive Director steps down from the Board). There
notice period extending beyond the contract expiry date.
were no increases to the supplemental fees.
Other entitlements The Non-Executive Directors’ fees applying from 1 January 2013 are
as follows:
In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the event
that Dr Moncef Slaoui’s service agreement is terminated by his
Per annum
employing company, the following will apply:
Standard annual cash retainer fee £85,000
(cid:115)(cid:0) in the case of outstanding awards due under the GlaxoSmithKline
Supplemental fees
Annual Investment Plan (which was closed to new deferrals with
effect from the first quarter of 2006), provided that his
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
agreement is terminated other than for cause, Dr Moncef Slaoui
must exercise any Bonus Investment Rights within six months of Senior Independent Director
termination to receive any deferred amounts, and any income and and Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000
(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)
Chairmen of the Remuneration and Corporate
(cid:115)(cid:0) in line with the policy applicable to US senior executives, Responsibility Committees† £20,000
Dr Moncef Slaoui may become eligible, at a future date, to receive
continuing medical and dental insurance after retirement. Non-Executive Director undertaking £7,500
intercontinental travel to meetings per meeting
Outside appointments for Executives
† S ir Christopher Gent is the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee,
The Board encourages Executives to hold one external directorship but does not receive the additional fee listed above.
once they have become established in their role to broaden their
experience and development, and help increase the pool of
candidates for non-executive directors.126 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan Exchange rate
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders, GSK Fees that are paid in US dollars were converted at the following
requires Non-Executive Directors to receive a significant part of exchange rates:
their fees in the form of shares or ADS. At least 25% of the
Non-Executive Directors’ total fees, excluding those of the Exchange rate
Period rate applied £/US$
Chairman, are paid in the form of shares or ADS and allocated
1 January 2011 – 31 December 2011 US$1.5798
to a share or ADS account. The Non-Executive Directors may also
1 January 2012 – 31 December 2012 US$1.5718
take the opportunity to invest part or all of the balance of their
1 January 2013 – 31 December 2013 US$1.6060
fees into the same share or ADS account.
The exchange rate is set annually based on the average daily rate
The shares or ADS which are notionally awarded to the Non-
for the last quarter of the year prior to payment. The rate will be
Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts are set
reviewed if it moves significantly during the year.
out in the table on page 128 and are included within the Directors’
interests table on page 129. The accumulated balances of these
TSR performance graph
shares or ADS, together with notional dividends subsequently
reinvested, are not paid out to the Non-Executive Directors until
The following graph sets out the performance of the company
they leave the Board. Upon leaving, the Non-Executive Directors
relative to the FTSE 100 Index, of which the company is a
will receive either the shares or ADS, or a cash amount equal to
constituent, and to the pharmaceutical performance comparator
the value of the shares or ADS at the date of leaving, or date of
group for the five year period to 31 December 2012, measured on
payment if later.
a common currency basis. The graph has been prepared in
accordance with the Regulations as defined in ’Basis of preparation’
Letters of appointment
on page 136 and is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards
The terms of engagement of the Non-Executive Directors are granted under any of the company’s incentive plans.
set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection
at the company’s registered office and at the AGM. For each TSR performance
Non-Executive Director, his or her initial appointment and any
subsequent re-appointment are subject to election and, thereafter,
160
periodic re-election by shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment do not 140
contain provision for notice periods or for compensation if their
appointments are terminated. 120
The following table shows the date of the initial letter of
appointment of each Non-Executive Director: 100
Non-Executive Director Date of letter of appointment 80
Sir Christopher Gent 26 May 2004
60
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 28 September 2007
Dr Stephanie Burns 12 February 2007 31/12/07 31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/ 11 3 1/12/1 2
Stacey Cartwright 3 March 2011
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return
Sir Crispin Davis 9 June 2003
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index*
Lynn Elsenhans 3 May 2012
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
Judy Lewent 3 March 2011
* This index includes Abbott Laboratories, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb,
Sir Deryck Maughan 26 May 2004
Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 3 July 2008
Tom de Swaan 21 December 2005
Jing Ulrich 3 May 2012
Hans Wijers* 29 January 2013
Sir Robert Wilson 9 June 2003
* Appointed with effect from 1 April 2013.
In Sir Christopher Gent’s letter of appointment, it was agreed
that he would serve the company as Deputy Chairman until
31 December 2004 and from 1 January 2005 as Chairman until
the conclusion of the AGM following the third anniversary of his
appointment. This was extended for a term of three years by mutual
agreement, with effect from his re-election as a Director at the
AGM held on 21 May 2008. As previously announced, this has
been further extended for a period of five years with effect from
1 January 2011, subject to annual re-election at AGMs.GSK Annual Report 2012 127
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Directors’ emoluments and total remuneration
In addition to the statutory disclosure of total emoluments for the year, we have also provided figures for ‘total remuneration’, which
includes the value of LTIs earned where the relevant performance periods ended during the year.
2012 2011
Compen-
Total (a) Value Total sation for Total (a) Value Total
Fees or Other Annual emolu- of LTIs remune- Fees or Other Annual loss of emolu- of LTIs remune-
salary benefits bonus ments earned ration salary benefits bonus office ments earned ration
Footnote 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Executive Directors
Sir Andrew Witty a,b,c £1,033 £49 £905 £1,987 £1,905 £3,892 £1,000 £36 £2,000 – £3,036 £3,743 £6,779
Simon Dingemans b,c,d £682 £161 £343 £1,186 – £1,186 £656 £157 £827 – £1,640 – £1,640
Dr Moncef Slaoui a,c $1,153 $363 $1,404 $2,920 $1,690 $4,610 $1,093 $302 $1,747 – $3,142 $1,753 $4,895
Total Executive Directors £2,440 £439 £2,131 £5,010 £2,968 £7,978 £2,335 £381 £3,912 – £6,628 £4,832 £11,460
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £120 – – £120 – £120 £135 – – – £135 – £135
Stacey Cartwright e £75 – – £75 – £75 £56 – – – £56 – £56
Sir Crispin Davis £110 – – £110 – £110 £125 – – – £125 – £125
Sir Christopher Gent £675 – – £675 – £675 £675 – – – £675 – £675
James Murdoch f £33 – – £33 – £33 £90 – – – £90 – £90
Tom de Swaan £170 – – £170 – £170 £185 £1 – – £186 – £186
Sir Robert Wilson £120 – – £120 – £120 £135 – – – £135 – £135
Lynn Elsenhans e £38 – – £38 – £38 – – – – – – –
Dr Stephanie Burns $165 – – $165 – $165 $154 – – – $154 – $154
Larry Culp f $124 – – $124 – $124 $154 – – – $154 – $154
Judy Lewent e $165 – – $165 – $165 $101 – – – $101 – $101
Sir Deryck Maughan $165 – – $165 – $165 $130 – – – $130 – $130
Dr Daniel Podolsky $212 – – $212 – $212 $201 – – – $201 – $201
Jing Ulrich e $71 – – $71 – $71 – – – – – – –
Total Non-Executive Directors £1,908 – – £1,908 – £1,908 £1,861 £1 – – £1,862 – £1,862
Former Directors
Julian Heslop a,b,g – – – – £748 £748 £141 £31 £104 £945 £1,221 £1,571 £2,792
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier – $118 – $118 – $118 – $118 – – $118 – $118
Total Former Directors – £74 – £74 £748 £822 £141 £104 £104 £945 £1,294 £1,571 £2,865
Total £4,348 £513 £2,131 £6,992 £3,716 £10,708 £4,337 £486 £4,016 £945 £9,784 £6,403 £16,187
Remuneration for Directors on the US payroll is reported in Dollars and translated at the average exchange rate for each year. None of the above Directors received
reimbursement for expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure under the Regulations as defined in ‘Basis of Preparation’ on page 136.
a) An analysis of the value of LTIs earned by Sir Andrew Witty, Dr Moncef Slaoui and Julian Heslop is set out on page 130.
b) Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans participate in salary sacrifice schemes, including ShareReward. Julian Heslop also participated until his early retirement on
31 March 2011.
c) Sir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans and Dr Moncef Slaoui have elected to participate in GSK’s Deferred Annual Bonus Plan in respect of their 2012 bonuses.
Sir Andrew Witty deferred 50% of his 2012 bonus (2011 – 35%), Simon Dingemans deferred 50% of his 2012 bonus (2011 – 50%) and Dr Moncef Slaoui deferred
50% of his 2012 bonus (2011 – 50%).
d) Simon Dingemans joined the Board on 4 January 2011 and his remuneration is recorded from this date. He does not participate in any of GSK’s pension plans and
instead received £136,400 (2011 – £132,000) in lieu of a money purchase pension contribution and £12,958 (2011 – £12,540) in respect of life assurance
contributions, which are both included in ‘Other benefits’ above.
e) Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich joined the Board on 1 July 2012. Stacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent joined the Board on 1 April 2011. Their fees are recorded from
these dates.
f) James Murdoch retired from the Board on 3 May 2012 and Larry Culp resigned from the Board on 30 September 2012.
g) Julian Heslop retired early on 31 March 2011. He received one year’s annual salary and 12 months’ on-target bonus as compensation for loss of office, as set out
under the terms of his contract.128 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The table below sets out the value of fees received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and shares or ADS. Further details of
the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan are set out on page 126.
2012 2011
Cash Shares/ADS Total Cash Shares/ADS Total
Fees 000 000 000 000 000 000
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £90 £30 £120 £101 £34 £135
Stacey Cartwright £56 £19 £75 £42 £14 £56
Sir Crispin Davis – £110 £110 – £125 £125
Sir Christopher Gent £540 £135 £675 £540 £135 £675
James Murdoch – £33 £33 – £90 £90
Tom de Swaan £127 £43 £170 £139 £46 £185
Sir Robert Wilson £90 £30 £120 £101 £34 £135
Lynn Elsenhans £4 $54 £38 – – –
Dr Stephanie Burns $82 $83 $165 $77 $77 $154
Larry Culp – $124 $124 – $154 $154
Judy Lewent $124 $41 $165 $76 $25 $101
Sir Deryck Maughan – $165 $165 – $130 $130
Dr Daniel Podolsky $53 $159 $212 $50 $151 $201
Jing Ulrich $53 $18 $71 – – –
Total fees £1,103 £805 £1,908 £1,049 £812 £1,861
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares or ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors as at 31 December 2012 under the
share allocation plan in relation to their fees received as Board members, together with the movements in their accounts during the year.
Number of shares or ADS
31 December Allocated Dividends 31 December
Share allocation plan Footnote 2011 & elected reinvested Paid out 2012
Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 11,597 2,132 672 – 14,401
Stacey Cartwright 1,028 1,331 67 – 2,426
Sir Crispin Davis 66,701 7,817 3,835 – 78,353
Sir Christopher Gent 80,021 9,581 4,610 – 94,212
James Murdoch a 16,504 2,331 971 – 19,806
Tom de Swaan 17,155 3,019 994 – 21,168
Sir Robert Wilson 18,623 2,132 1,070 – 21,825
ADS
Dr Stephanie Burns 9,567 1,826 550 – 11,943
Larry Culp b 28,259 2,711 – (30,970) –
Lynn Elsenhans – 1,181 – – 1,181
Judy Lewent 588 913 41 – 1,542
Sir Deryck Maughan 25,608 3,652 1,460 – 30,720
Dr Daniel Podolsky 16,888 3,524 971 – 21,383
Jing Ulrich – 396 – – 396
a) James Murdoch retired from the Board on 3 May 2012. He has elected to receive his shares from the share allocation plan after the end of the first quarter of 2013.
b) Larry Culp resigned from the Board on 30 September 2012 and the balance of his share allocation plan, net of tax, was transferred to him in December 2012.GSK Annual Report 2012 129
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Directors’ interests
The following interests of the Directors of the company in office at 31 December 2012 and their connected persons are shown in
accordance with the FSA Listing Rules.
Shares ADS
1 March 31 December 1 January 1 March 31 December 1 January
Footnote 2013 2012 2012 2013 2012 2012
Executive Directors
Sir Andrew Witty a,b,c 554,278 449,987 253,794 – – –
Simon Dingemans a,b 82,583 70,362 40,171 – – –
Dr Moncef Slaoui b,c,d,e,f 63,734 63,472 61,119 154,745 116,556 65,493
Non-Executive Directors
Professor Sir Roy Anderson g 14,401 14,401 11,597 – – –
Dr Stephanie Burns g 44 44 44 12,008 12,008 9,632
Stacey Cartwright g 2,547 2,547 1,149 – – –
Sir Crispin Davis g 85,112 85,112 73,460 – – –
Lynn Elsenhans g,h – – – 2,181 2,181 1,000
Sir Christopher Gent g 94,212 94,212 80,021 – – –
Judy Lewent g – – – 11,542 11,542 588
Sir Deryck Maughan g – – – 30,720 30,720 25,608
Dr Daniel Podolsky g – – – 21,383 21,383 16,888
Tom de Swaan g 21,168 21,168 17,155 – – –
Jing Ulrich g,h – – – 734 734 338
Sir Robert Wilson g 27,953 27,953 24,751 – – –
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
a) Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan as follows:
1 March 31 December 1 January
2013 2012 2012
Sir Andrew Witty 2,194 2,134 2,946
Simon Dingemans 433 392 171
b) Includes shares or ADS resulting from the deferral of bonus (and the subsequent re-investment of dividends) under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan. The totals shown below
include vested but not exercised bonus deferrals and matching awards, but exclude unvested matching awards which are subject to ongoing performance criteria. The amounts
represent the gross share and ADS balances prior to the sale of any shares or ADS to satisfy tax liabilities on exercise.
1 March 31 December 1 January
2013 2012 2012
Shares
Sir Andrew Witty 154,384 112,833 58,909
Simon Dingemans 42,150 29,970 –
ADS
Dr Moncef Slaoui 56,655 40,269 19,218
c) The totals at 1 March 2013 include shares or ADS which vested under elements of the 2010 awards of the Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Annual Bonus
Plan, less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts (see pages 132 and 133).
d) Includes shares under the Annual Investment Plan which have reached the end of their deferral periods, but have not been exercised, for Dr Moncef Slaoui totalling
25,642 shares at 1 March 2013 and 31 December 2012 (1 January 2012 – 26,431 shares). These amounts include reinvested dividends and represent the gross
share balances prior to the sale of any shares to satisfy tax liabilities on exercise.
e) Includes ADS purchased within the US Retirement Savings Plan and the US Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP) totalling 8,484 ADS at 1 March 2013
and 8,249 ADS at 31 December 2012 (1 January 2012 – 6,424 ADS). The ADS in respect of the ESSP were not included in the totals for Directors’ interests in the
2011 annual report and the brought forward numbers for Dr Moncef Slaoui have been increased by 4,963 ADS accordingly.
f) Includes ADS awarded to Dr Moncef Slaoui’s connected person under the Share Value Plan (SVP) – see page 135 – totalling 4,750 ADS at 1 March 2013 and
5,390 ADS at 31 December 2012 (1 January 2012 – 3,730 ADS). The ADS in respect of the SVP were not included in the totals for Directors’ interests in the 2011
annual report and the brought forward numbers for Dr Moncef Slaoui have been increased by 3,730 ADS accordingly.
g) Includes shares or ADS received as part or all of their fees, as described under ‘Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan’ on page 126. Dividends received on
these shares or ADS during 2012 were converted into shares or ADS as at 31 December 2012.
h) Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich joined the Board on 1 July 2012 and their holdings are disclosed from this date.130 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Long-Term Incentive plans
Value of LTIs earned
The value of LTIs earned for current and former Executive Directors includes the amounts vesting under GSK’s LTI plans (the Deferred Annual
Bonus Plan and the Performance Share Plan) where the relevant performance period(s) ended during the reporting year, together with the
amounts vesting under the ShareSave Plan where the contract(s) ended during the year. The totals are analysed as follows:
Executive Directors Sir Andrew Witty Dr Moncef Slaoui Total
2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011
Vesting of: Page(s) 000 000 000 000 000 000
2010 Deferred Annual Bonus Plan award 132 £125 – – – £125 –
2009 Performance Share Plan award 133 to 135 – £3,738 – $1,753 – £4,827
2010 Performance Share Plan award 133 to 135 £1,780 – $1,690 – £2,843 –
ShareSave 131 – £5 – – – £5
Total Executive Directors £1,905 £3,743 $1,690 $1,753 £2,968 £4,832
Former Directors Julian Heslop
2012 2011
Vesting of: 000 000
2009 Performance Share Plan award 134 to 135 – £1,570
2010 Performance Share Plan award 134 to 135 £748 –
ShareSave – £1
Total Former Directors £748 £1,571
Share Option and ShareSave Plan awards
In respect of options granted under the Share Option Plan (SOP) and the ShareSave Plan (ShareSave), the remuneration receivable by an
Executive Director is calculated on the date that the options first vest. The remuneration is the difference between the amount the Executive
Director is required to pay to buy the shares or ADS and the total value of the shares or ADS on the vesting date.
If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the options on the vesting date, any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount realised
will be due to movements in the share or ADS price between the vesting date and the date of exercise. This increase or decrease in value
is the result of an investment decision by the Executive Director and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
The options outstanding at 31 December 2012 and 1 March 2013, the movements during the periods and the gains realised on exercise are
shown below:
Executive Directors
31 December
31 December 2012 and
Options – shares 2011 Granted Exercised 1 March 2013
Sir Andrew Witty 404,502 776 (1,009) 404,269
Simon Dingemans – 310 – 310
Dr Moncef Slaoui 95,320 – – 95,320
Granted options – shares Date of Grant Number Vesting Lapse
2012 Plan grant price of shares date date
Sir Andrew Witty ShareSave 01.12.12 £11.59 776 01.12.15 30.05.16
Simon Dingemans ShareSave 01.12.12 £11.59 310 01.12.15 30.05.16
Exercised options – shares Market
Date of Number price at Gain
2012 Date of grant exercise of shares Grant price exercise 000
Sir Andrew Witty 01.12.08 07.02.12 1,009 £9.51 £14.06 £5
31 December 31 December 1 March
Options – ADS
Footnote 2011 Lapsed 2012 Lapsed 2013
Dr Moncef Slaoui a 162,985 (79,375) 83,610 (79,375) 4,235
a) The total of ADS options for Dr Moncef Slaoui includes the interests of his connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.GSK Annual Report 2012 131
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
& risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Share Option and ShareSave Plan awards continued
The following table shows the gain on the exercise of the options set out above analysed between remuneration and the subsequent gain/
(loss) as a result of the investment decision.
Market Remuneration Investment Net
Date of Vesting price at Date of gain/(loss) gain
2012 Plan grant date vesting exercise Year 000 000 000
Sir Andrew Witty ShareSave 01.12.08 01.12.11 £14.07 07.02.12 2011 £5 – £5
Former Directors
Options – shares 31 December 2011 and 2012 and 1 March 2013
Julian Heslop 117,117
For those options outstanding at 31 December 2012, the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for options below and above the market
price for a GlaxoSmithKline share or ADS at the year-end are given in the table below:
Executive Directors
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Sir Andrew Witty grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Options below market price at year-end vested £11.87 313,500 21.02.07 20.02.08 14.12.13 01.12.14
unvested £11.59 776 01.12.15 01.12.15 30.05.16 30.05.16
Options above market price at year-end vested £14.68 89,993 21.02.09 21.02.09 20.02.16 20.02.16
Total share options at 31 December 2012 £12.49 404,269
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Simon Dingemans grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Total share options and options
below market price at year-end unvested £11.59 310 01.12.15 01.12.15 30.05.16 30.05.16
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Dr Moncef Slaoui grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Shares
Options below market price at year-end vested £11.23 26,800 02.12.07 02.12.07 01.12.14 01.12.14
Options above market price at year-end vested £14.68 68,520 21.02.09 21.02.09 20.02.16 20.02.16
Total share options at 31 December 2012 £13.71 95,320
ADS*
Options below market price at year-end vested $33.42 1,100 17.02.12 17.02.12 16.02.19 16.02.19
unvested $33.47 80,475 22.02.13 01.03.13 16.02.19 21.02.20
Options above market price at year-end vested $50.34 2,035 28.07.09 19.02.11 27.07.16 18.02.18
Total ADS options as at 31 December 2012 $33.88 83,610
* The ADS option totals include those ADS options held by Dr Moncef Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK.
Former Directors
Weighted average Vesting date Lapse date
Julian Heslop grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Total share options and options
above market price at year-end vested £14.68 117,117 21.02.09 21.02.09 31.03.13 31.03.13
GSK granted share options to Executive Directors on an annual basis until 2009. The Directors hold these options under the various share
option plans referred to in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. None of the Non-Executive Directors had an
interest in any option over the company’s shares. The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31 December 2012 for
GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADS were £15.08 and £13.18 and $47.45 and $41.90 respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share
on 31 December 2012 was £13.35 (31 December 2011 – £14.72) and for a GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $43.47 (31 December 2011 – $45.63).
The table below sets out, for share options granted in 2009, the performance periods, the performance targets and whether or not the
options have vested at 31 December 2012 and 1 March 2013.
Performance target
Vesting status Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Footnote Performance period at 1 March 2013 at 31 December 2012 in EPS award vesting
February 2009 – 50% of award a 2009 – 2011 Lapsed Lapsed > RPI + 6% 100%
February 2009 – 50% of award a 2009 – 2012 Lapsed Unvested RPI + 5% 85%
RPI + 4% 65%
RPI + 3% 30%
< RPI + 3% 0%
a) The performance targets for these options were not met, and as a result they lapsed on the third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant.132 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan awards
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) awards in the form of nil-cost options are made to Executive Directors annually based on the
individual’s voluntary bonus deferral election. The company will match shares or ADS up to one-for-one depending on the company’s
performance during a three year performance period. Once an award vests, the Executive Director may choose to exercise the award at any
time up to 10 years from the date of grant. The amount of remuneration receivable in respect of the matching shares or ADS is calculated
using the share or ADS price on the date the relevant DABP award vests. If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the nil-cost options
on the vesting date, any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount realised will be due to movements in the share or ADS price
between the vesting date and the date of exercise. This increase or decrease in value is the result of an investment decision by the Executive
Director and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares Performance period
2010-2012 2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015
Market price at grant £12.35 £11.80 £14.12 £14.54
Unvested at 31 December 2011 26,229 32,680 – –
Granted – – 49,575 –
Dividends reinvested 1,420 1,771 1,158 –
Unvested at 31 December 2012 27,649 34,451 50,733 –
Granted – – – 31,114
Dividends reinvested 780 456 672 –
Vested (8,529) – – –
Lapsed (19,900) – – –
Unvested at 1 March 2013 – 34,907 51,405 31,114
Sir Andrew Witty – Vested shares
Number of shares 8,529
Market price at vesting £14.66
Gain: 000
Remuneration for 2012 £125
Sir Andrew Witty has not exercised those shares that have vested and at 1 March 2013, 8,529 shares in respect of the matching award
granted in 2010 remain within the DABP as vested, but unexercised.
Simon Dingemans – Shares Performance period
2012-2014 2013-2015
Market price at grant £14.12 £14.54
Unvested at 31 December 2011 – –
Granted 29,286 –
Dividends reinvested 684 –
Unvested at 31 December 2012 29,970 –
Granted – 11,783
Dividends reinvested 397 –
Unvested at 1 March 2013 30,367 11,783
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS Performance period
2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015
Market price at grant $38.22 $44.68 $44.27
Unvested at 31 December 2011 19,218 – –
Granted – 19,555 –
Dividends reinvested 1,041 455 –
Unvested at 31 December 2012 20,259 20,010 –
Granted – – 15,859
Dividends reinvested 265 262 –
Unvested at 1 March 2013 20,524 20,272 15,859
Vesting schedules of DABP awards
The 2010 award vested in line with the three year relative TSR vesting schedule applied to the 2010 PSP award (see page 135). The 2011 and
2012 awards have the same vesting criteria as for the 2011 and 2012 PSP awards respectively (see pages 134 and 135). The vesting schedule
for the 2013 DABP award is set out in detail on page 118.GSK Annual Report 2012 133
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Performance Share Plan awards
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are made to Executive Directors on an annual basis. The Directors hold these awards under the various
PSP plans referred to in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. The amount of remuneration receivable in respect
of performance shares is calculated using the share or ADS price on the date the relevant PSP award vests.
The PSP awards made to Sir Andrew Witty in 2012 and 2013 have three year performance periods. However, the deeds of award specify
that 25% of the awards will be subject to a further two year vesting period (five years in total). During this two year period, there are no
additional performance criteria and the awards will only lapse if Sir Andrew is dismissed for cause. The remuneration in respect of these
awards will therefore be considered to be realised in full following the determination by the Remuneration Committee of the vesting levels
of the initial 75% of the awards (i.e. full remuneration will be recognised at the end of the three year performance periods).
Executive Directors
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares Performance period
2009-2011 2009-2012 2010-2012 2010-2013 2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015
Market price at grant £10.62 £10.62 £12.04 £12.04 £11.78 £14.12 £14.54
Unvested at 31 December 2011 368,958 158,125 313,803 134,487 434,451 – –
Granted – – – – – 441,926 –
Dividends reinvested 11,060 8,523 16,915 7,249 23,418 10,260 –
Vested (266,013) – – – – – –
Lapsed (114,005) – – – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2012 – 166,648 330,718 141,736 457,869 452,186 –
Granted – – – – – 437,744
Dividends reinvested 4,700 9,327 1,871 6,045 5,969 –
Vested – (121,445) – – – –
Lapsed (171,348) (218,600) – – – –
Unvested at 1 March 2013 – – 143,607 463,914 458,155 437,744
Sir Andrew Witty – Vested shares:
Number of shares 266,013 – 121,445
Market price at vesting £14.05 £14.66 £14.66
Gain: 000 000 000
Remuneration for 2011 £3,738
– £1,780
Remuneration for 2012 £1,780
Simon Dingemans – Shares Performance period
2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015
Market price at grant £11.78 £14.12 £14.54
Unvested at 31 December 2011 200,716 – –
Granted – 170,141 –
Dividends reinvested 10,819 3,950 –
Unvested at 31 December 2012 211,535 174,091 –
Granted – – 192,613
Dividends reinvested 2,793 2,298 –
Unvested at 1 March 2013 214,328 176,389 192,613
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS* Performance period
2009-2011 2009-2012 2010-2012 2010-2013 2011-2013 2012-2014 2012-2014 2013-2015
Market price at grant $33.71 $33.71 $37.32 $37.32 $38.13 $44.68 $44.90 $44.27
Unvested at 31 December 2011 54,156 23,210 98,705 42,303 151,125 – – –
Granted – – – – – 129,700 1,692 –
Dividends reinvested 1,650 1,252 5,324 2,281 8,151 3,008 19 –
Vested (39,065) – – – – – – –
Lapsed (16,741) – – – – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2012 – 24,462 104,029 44,584 159,276 132,708 1,711 –
Granted – – – – – – 133,521
Dividends reinvested 699 2,973 587 2,097 1,747 22 –
Vested – (38,215) – – – – –
Lapsed (25,161) (68,787) – – – – –
Unvested at 1 March 2013 – – 45,171 161,373 134,455 1,733 133,521
* The PSP totals include those PSP awards held by Dr Moncef Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK. These awards are subject
to performance criteria relevant to employees below the CET.134 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Dr Moncef Slaoui – Vested ADS Performance period
2009-2011 2009-2012 2010-2012
Number of ADS 39,065 – 38,215
Market price at vesting $44.87 $44.22 $44.22
Gain: 000 000 000
Remuneration for 2011 $1,753
– $1,690
Remuneration for 2012 $1,690
Former Directors
Julian Heslop – Shares Performance period
2009-2011 2009-2012 2010-2012 2010-2013
Market price at grant £10.62 £10.62 £12.04 £12.04
Unvested at 31 December 2011 154,963 66,412 131,798 56,484
Dividends reinvested 4,645 3,581 7,105 3,044
Vested (111,726) – – –
Lapsed (47,882) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2012 – 69,993 138,903 59,528
Dividends reinvested 1,974 3,917 787
Vested – (51,007) –
Lapsed (71,967) (91,813) –
Unvested at 1 March 2013 – – 60,315
Julian Heslop - Vested shares
Number of shares 111,726 – 51,007
Market price at vesting £14.05 £14.66 £14.66
Gain: 000 000 000
Remuneration for 2011 £1,570
– £748
Remuneration for 2012 £748
Under the terms of the PSP, the number of shares or ADS vesting is determined following the end of the relevant performance period and is
dependent on GSK’s performance during that period. The Committee adjusted the comparator group for relative TSR by removing Schering-
Plough and Wyeth following their de-listings during 2009 and revised the vesting schedule accordingly. From 1 January 2013, Abbott
Laboratories separated into two publicly traded companies. The Committee concluded that neither of these companies was a relevant
comparator for performance purposes and that they should be excluded from the TSR comparator group for both outstanding and future
awards. The vesting schedule has been revised accordingly and now comprises GSK and nine other companies. The revised comparator
group is set out on page 115.
Dividends are reinvested on the performance shares or ADS awarded to Executives throughout the performance period and up to the
date of the final award. Under the terms of the PSP, US participants may defer receipt of all or part of their vested awards.
The following vesting schedules apply to the PSP awards made to Executive Directors and other CET members in 2009, 2010, 2011 and
2012. The vesting schedule for the 2013 PSP award is set out in detail on page 118.
*Business diversification performance vesting schedule
Maximum performance expressed as
Award % of award Performance period Percentage of award vesting percentage of threshold
2011 25 2011 – 2013 0% –100% 114%
2012 25 2012 – 2014 0% –100% 114%
*R&D new product performance vesting schedule
Maximum performance expressed as
Award % of award Performance period Percentage of award vesting percentage of threshold
2011 25 2011 – 2013 0% –100% 122%
2012 25 2012 – 2014 0% –100% 122%
Adjusted free cash flow vesting schedule
Cash flow targets
Award % of award Performance period £bn Percentage of award vesting
2010 40 2010 – 2012 17.3 – 20.5 0% – 100%
2011 25 2011 – 2013 16.15 – 19.15 0% – 100%
2012 25 2012 – 2014 17.30 – 20.52 0% – 100%GSK Annual Report 2012 135
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Relative TSR vesting schedule
Award % of award Performance period TSR rank with 10 other companies Percentage of award vesting
2009 30 2009 – 2012 1-3 100%
2010 30 2010 – 2012 4 80%
5 55%
Median 30%
Below median 0%
Award % of award Performance period TSR rank with nine other companies Percentage of award vesting
2010 30 2010 – 2013 1-3 100%
2011 25 2011 – 2013 4 72%
2012 25 2012 – 2014 5 44%
6-10 0%
* D ue to commercial sensitivity, the targets for the business diversification performance and R&D new product performance measures will be disclosed
along with outcomes in the 2013 and 2014 Remuneration Reports.
Share Value Plan awards
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS Market
price on Unvested at Unvested at Unvested at
date of 31 December 31 December 1 March
Plan year grant 2011 Granted Vested 2012 Vested 2013
2009 $33.42 640 – (640) –
2010 $37.32 640 – – 640 (640) –
2011 $38.13 2,450 – – 2,450 – 2,450
2012 $45.86 – 2,300 – 2,300 – 2,300
Total 3,730 2,300 (640) 5,390 (640) 4,750
As an Executive Director, Dr Moncef Slaoui is not eligible to receive awards under the Share Value Plan. The awards shown above reflect the
holdings of Dr Moncef Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK. The awards are subject to three-year vesting periods
and vesting is contingent on continued employment with GSK. The gains arising on vesting are not included in the total remuneration for
Dr Moncef Slaoui as set out on page 127.
Pension benefits
Defined benefit plans
The accrued annual pension benefits and transfer values on retirement for Executive Directors in office during the year are set out below.
The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of the accrued benefit at the end of the year, the change in accrued benefit over the year, the
transfer value at both the beginning and end of the year and the change in the transfer value over the year. The FSA’s Listing Rules require
additional disclosure of the change in the accrued benefit, net of inflation and the transfer value of this change. Pensions for the Executive
Directors have been disclosed in the currency in which the pension is payable.
Change in *Transfer value
Accrued Accrued Change in Personal Transfer Transfer accrued of change
benefit at benefit at accrued contributions value at value at *Change benefit over in accrued
31 December 31 December benefit made during 31 December 31 December in transfer year net benefit net
Executive Director 2011 2012 over year the year 2011 2012 value of inflation of inflation
000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Sir Andrew Witty £530 £582 £52 £31 £12,950 £13,704 £723 £22 £512
Dr Moncef Slaoui $263 $350 $87 n/a $2,003 $2,540 $537 $82 $601
Dr Moncef Slaoui €71 €78 €7 n/a €732 €785 €53 €6 €71
* These are shown net of contributions made by the individual.136 GSK Annual Report 2012
Remuneration report
Pension benefits continued Directors and senior management
Sir Andrew Witty participates in the Glaxo Wellcome final salary
Further information is provided on compensation and interests
plan with an accrual rate of 1/30th of final pensionable salary per
of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the group’).
annum. In 2000, all benefits accrued under the Glaxo Wellcome
For this purpose, the group is defined as the Non-Executive and
UK pension arrangements were augmented by the Trustees of the
Executive Directors, other members of the CET and the Company
plans by 5% to reflect a distribution of surplus. This augmentation
Secretary. For the financial year 2012, the total compensation
will apply to that element of Sir Andrew Witty’s pension earnings
paid to members of the group for the periods during which they
before 31 March 2000.
served in that capacity was £19,627,494, the aggregate increase in
The transfer value for Sir Andrew Witty is calculated in accordance accrued pension benefits, net of inflation, was £1,265,822 and the
with pensions’ regulation and represents the present value of aggregate payment to defined contribution schemes was £680,188.
potential payments under the pension plan.
During 2012, the members of the group were awarded 160,460
Dr Moncef Slaoui is a member of the US Cash Balance Pension Plan shares and 41,789 ADS under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan,
and the Supplemental Cash Balance Pension Plan which provides 1,424,375 shares and 344,909 ADS under the Performance Share
for an Executive Pension Credit. GSK makes annual contributions Plan and 15,905 shares and 2,300 ADS under the Share Value Plan.
to Dr Moncef Slaoui’s pension plans of 38% of his base salary. The No options were granted to members of the group under the Share
fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance, based Option Plan in 2012. No notional shares or ADS were granted under
on the 30 year US Treasury bond rate, to provide a cash sum at the Deferred Investment Award Plan in 2012. Members of the group
retirement. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or were awarded, through the reinvestment of dividends, 8,646 shares
to pension increases. and 2,898 ADS in the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, 202,340 shares
and 61,631 ADS in the Performance Share Plan and 7,652 notional
The transfer value, or cash sum, has increased by $537,246 for
shares in the Deferred Investment Award Plan.
Dr Moncef Slaoui over the year as a result of contributions of
$437,190 paid by the company and further accumulation of At 1 March 2013, the group (comprising 29 persons) owned
interest of $100,056. 1,548,255 shares and 390,044 ADS, constituting less than 1% of
the issued share capital of the company. The group also held, at
Dr Moncef Slaoui was an active participant in the Belgium Fortis
that date: options to purchase 1,582,846 shares and 52,975 ADS;
Plan until 31 May 2006. This plan is a defined benefit plan with a
328,663 shares and 106,503 ADS awarded under the Deferred
lump sum payable at normal retirement, which is age 60 for the
Annual Bonus Plan, including those shares and ADS that are vested
plan. The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Moncef Slaoui’s plan
but not exercised; 4,754,964 shares and 1,163,766 ADS awarded
has increased by €53,346 over the year as a result of further
under the Performance Share Plan, including those shares and ADS
accumulation of interest. There are no further company
that are vested and deferred; 96,515 shares and 4,750 ADS awarded
contributions to this plan.
under the Share Value Plan and 92,812 notional shares awarded
under the Deferred Investment Award Plan. These holdings were
Defined contribution plans
issued under the various executive share plans described in Note 42
Dr Moncef Slaoui is also a member of the US Retirement Savings to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’.
Plan, a 401k savings scheme open to all US employees and the
Executive Supplemental Savings Plan, a savings scheme open to Basis of preparation
Executives to accrue benefits above US government limits imposed
on the US Retirement Savings Plan. Contributions to both plans The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the
are invested in a range of funds and the value of the accumulated Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized Companies
funds is paid at retirement. During 2012, contributions of $121,571 and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (the
(£76,460) were paid into these two schemes by GSK in respect of Regulations) and meets the relevant requirements of the FSA Listing
Dr Moncef Slaoui. Rules. In accordance with the Regulations, the following sections of
the Remuneration Report are subject to audit: Directors’
Simon Dingemans joined GSK in January 2011. He is not emoluments and total remuneration, Non-Executive Directors’ fees,
accumulating benefits in any of GSK’s pension plans and receives a Long-Term Incentive plans (including Share Option and ShareSave
cash contribution in lieu of a money purchase pension contribution. Plan awards, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan awards, Performance
Share Plan awards and Share Value Plan awards) and Pension
Directors’ interests in contracts
benefits for which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 139.
The remaining sections are not subject to audit nor are the pages
Except as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related
referred to from within the audited sections. The Remuneration
party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no
Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on
Director or connected person had any material interest in any
its behalf by
contract of significance with a Group company.
Tom de Swaan
Remuneration Committee Chairman
5 March 2013GSK Annual Report 2012 137
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Financial
Directors’ statement of
responsibilities 138
Independent Auditors’ report 139
Financial statements 140
statements
Notes to the financial statements 144
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
under UK GAAP 218
Squeezing production times
A review of our manufacturing standards
and processes identified opportunities
to reduce the downtime between
switching our manufacturing lines from
one consumer product to another. Some
simple improvements freed up the capacity
to produce a further 6.7 million tubes of
toothpaste (see page 47). trakcorC
niaI138 GSK Annual Report 2012
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in relation to Disclosure of information to auditors
the Group financial statements
The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, confirmed that:
the Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in
(cid:115)(cid:0) so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
(cid:115)(cid:0) he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by
auditors are aware of that information.
the European Union. In preparing the Group financial statements,
the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, as issued by This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Under with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
company law the Directors must not approve the Group financial
Going concern basis
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss Pages 1 to 86 contain information on the performance of the
of the Group for that period. Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are borrowing facilities. Further information, including Treasury risk
required to: management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and
hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the financial statements,
(cid:115)(cid:0) select suitable accounting policies and then apply them ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. After making
consistently; enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the
(cid:115)(cid:0) make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
and prudent; for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
(cid:115)(cid:0) state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as
adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, Internal control
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
the Group financial statements.
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that
the Group financial statements and the Remuneration Report The UK Corporate Governance Code
comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets
and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code maintained
of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in the Corporate
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Governance section on pages 94 to 108, and has complied with its
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December provisions. As required by the Financial Services Authority’s Listing
2012, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are Rules, the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of
set out in ‘Financial statements’ on pages 140 to 223 of this report. compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group Governance Code which are specified for their review.
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’
Annual Report
report on page 139.
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012,
2012 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report,
hard-copy printed form and made available on our website. The the Financial statements and additional information for investors,
Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its
Annual Report on our website in accordance with UK legislation behalf by
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements. Access to the website is available from outside the UK,
where comparable legislation may be different.
Sir Christopher Gent
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed
Chairman
in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2012
5 March 2013
confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
(cid:115)(cid:0) the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued
by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,
financial position and profit of the Group; and
(cid:115)(cid:0) the Strategic review and Financial review and risk sections on
pages 1 to 86 include a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the Group,
together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that it faces.GSK Annual Report 2012 139
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
Independent Auditors’ report Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued
by the IASB
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group
We have audited the Group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline
in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as
plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the
adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by
consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the
consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as
cash flow statement, and the related Notes 1-44. The financial issued by the IASB.
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies
is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the Directors’ Report for the
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared
As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of responsibilities is consistent with the Group financial statements.
set out on page 138 the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they Matters on which we are required to report by
give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and express an exception
opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with
We have nothing to report in respect of the following:
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. in our opinion:
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only (cid:115)(cid:0) certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are
for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 not made; or
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
(cid:115)(cid:0) we have not received all the information and explanations we
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility
require for our audit.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Under the Listing Rules we are required to review:
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
(cid:115)(cid:0) the directors’ statement, set out on page 138, in relation to going
Scope of the audit of the financial statements concern;
(cid:115)(cid:0) the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the UK
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review; and
assurance that the financial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an (cid:115)(cid:0) certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to directors’ remuneration.
the Group’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting Other matters
estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and
statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December
non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material
2012 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements. If we become
that is described as having been audited.
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we
consider the implications for our report. The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
Opinion on financial statements name should not be stated.
In our opinion the Group financial statements:
(cid:115)(cid:0) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs as at
31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year
then ended;
(cid:115)(cid:0) have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
by the European Union; and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
(cid:115)(cid:0) have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 5 March 2013
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.140 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012
2011 2010
2012 (restated) (restated)
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 26,431 27,387 28,392
Cost of sales (7,894) (7,648) (7,898)
Gross profit 18,537 19,739 20,494
Selling, general and administration (8,739) (8,510) (12,747)
Research and development (3,968) (4,009) (4,457)
Royalty income 306 309 296
Other operating income 7 1,256 278 197
Operating profit 8 7,392 7,807 3,783
Finance income 11 79 90 116
Finance expense 12 (808) (799) (831)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 585 8
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 29 15 81
Profit before taxation 6,692 7,698 3,157
Taxation 14 (1,948) (2,240) (1,304)
Profit after taxation for the year 4,744 5,458 1,853
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 179 197 219
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,565 5,261 1,634
4,744 5,458 1,853
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 92.9p 104.6p 32.1p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 91.5p 103.2p 31.9p
Comparative information has been restated for consistency of presentation as set out in Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 4,744 5,458 1,853
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (257) (299) 166
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries – (1) (2)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 77 (20) 94
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (10) 23 (25)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (19) (29) 1
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments 10 – (3)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (781) (969) (1)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 221 268 1
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (6) – (8)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – – 1
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 2 1 3
Cash flow hedge reclassified to goodwill – – 6
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures 30 (8) –
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (733) (1,034) 233
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,011 4,424 2,086
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 3,862 4,271 1,847
Non-controlling interests 149 153 239
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,011 4,424 2,086GSK Annual Report 2012 141
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2012
2012 2011
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 8,776 8,748
Goodwill 18 4,359 3,754
Other intangible assets 19 10,161 7,802
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 579 560
Other investments 21 787 590
Deferred tax assets 14 2,385 2,849
Derivative financial instruments 41 54 85
Other non-current assets 22 682 525
Total non-current assets 27,783 24,913
Current assets
Inventories 23 3,969 3,873
Current tax recoverable 14 103 85
Trade and other receivables 24 5,242 5,576
Derivative financial instruments 41 49 70
Liquid investments 32 81 184
Cash and cash equivalents 25 4,184 5,714
Assets held for sale 26 64 665
Total current assets 13,692 16,167
Total assets 41,475 41,080
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 32 (3,631) (2,698)
Trade and other payables 27 (8,054) (7,359)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (63) (175)
Current tax payable 14 (1,374) (1,643)
Short-term provisions 29 (693) (3,135)
Total current liabilities (13,815) (15,010)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 32 (14,671) (12,203)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (1,004) (822)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (3,105) (3,091)
Other provisions 29 (699) (499)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (2) (2)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (1,432) (626)
Total non-current liabilities (20,913) (17,243)
Total liabilities (34,728) (32,253)
Net assets 6,747 8,827
Equity
Share capital 33 1,349 1,387
Share premium account 33 2,022 1,673
Retained earnings 34 652 3,370
Other reserves 34 1,787 1,602
Shareholders’ equity 5,810 8,032
Non-controlling interests 937 795
Total equity 6,747 8,827
Approved by the Board on 5 March 2013
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman142 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2012
Shareholders’ equity
Non-
Share Share Retained Other controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 1,416 1,368 6,321 900 10,005 737 10,742
Profit for the year – – 1,634 – 1,634 219 1,853
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 144 69 213 20 233
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 1,778 69 1,847 239 2,086
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (118) (118)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,205) – (3,205) – (3,205)
Ordinary shares issued 2 60 – – 62 – 62
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (16) (16) – (16)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 17 17 – 17
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (292) 292 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 175 – 175 – 175
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 2 – 2 – 2
At 31 December 2010 1,418 1,428 4,779 1,262 8,887 858 9,745
Profit for the year – – 5,261 – 5,261 197 5,458
Other comprehensive expense for the year – – (969) (21) (990) (44) (1,034)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 4,292 (21) 4,271 153 4,424
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (234) (234)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,406) – (3,406) – (3,406)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – 18 18
Forward contract relating to non-controlling interest – – – (29) (29) – (29)
Ordinary shares issued 5 245 – – 250 – 250
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares (36) – (2,191) 36 (2,191) – (2,191)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (36) (36) – (36 )
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 45 45 – 45
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (345) 345 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 191 – 191 – 191
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 50 – 50 – 50
At 1 January 2012 1,387 1,673 3,370 1,602 8,032 795 8,827
Profit for the year – – 4,565 – 4,565 179 4,744
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (734) 31 (703) (30) (733)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 3,831 31 3,862 149 4,011
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (171) (171)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,814) – (3,814) – (3,814)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (382) – (382) 164 (218)
Forward contract relating to non-controlling interest – – – 8 8 – 8
Ordinary shares issued 7 349 – – 356 – 356
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares (45) – (2,493) 45 (2,493) – (2,493)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (37) (37) – (37)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 58 58 – 58
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (80) 80 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 211 – 211 – 211
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 9 – 9 – 9
At 31 December 2012 1,349 2,022 652 1,787 5,810 937 6,747GSK Annual Report 2012 143
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2012
2012 2011 2010
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 4,744 5,458 1,853
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 1,304 2,255 6,778
Cash generated from operations 6,048 7,713 8,631
Taxation paid (1,673) (1,463) (1,834)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,375 6,250 6,797
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,051) (923) (1,014)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 68 100 92
Purchase of intangible assets (469) (405) (621)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 1,056 237 126
Purchase of equity investments (229) (76) (279)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 28 68 27
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 (2,235) (264) (354)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 38 (99) (35) (61)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary and interest in associate – 1,034 –
Decrease in liquid investments 224 30 91
Interest received 30 97 107
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 46 25 18
Net cash outflow from investing activities (2,631) (112) (1,868)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 58 45 17
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (37) (36) (16)
Issue of share capital 33 356 250 62
Purchase of own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares (2,493) (2,191) –
Purchase of non-controlling interests (14) – –
Increase in long-term loans 4,430 – –
Increase in short-term loans 1,743 45 6
Repayment of short-term loans (2,559) (8) (1,296)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (35) (38) (45)
Interest paid (779) (769) (775)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,814) (3,406) (3,205)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (171) (234) (118)
Other financing cash flows (36) 110 (201)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (3,351) (6,232) (5,571)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts 37 (1,607) (94) (642)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,605 5,807 6,368
Exchange adjustments (92) (108) 81
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (1,607) (94) (642)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,906 5,605 5,807
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 4,184 5,714 6,057
Overdrafts (278) (109 ) (250)
3,906 5,605 5,807144 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial statements As set out in Note 6, ‘Segment information’ the segments for which
turnover and operating profit are disclosed have been amended to
Description of business reflect changes in the Group’s internal management structure
together with certain changes to the therapeutic classifications of
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is turnover by product. In addition, charges for amortisation and
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture impairment of intangible assets related to marketed products are
and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, now reported in cost of sales rather than in SG&A. Comparative
Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer information has been restated accordingly. The adjustment for 2011
products. GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include medicines increases cost of sales and decreases SG&A by £316 million from
in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals, central the amounts previously reported.
nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, anti-
bacterials, oncology and emesis, dermatology, rare diseases, Implementation of new accounting standards
immuno-inflammation, vaccines and HIV.
With effect from 1 January 2012, GSK has implemented
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS amendments to IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Transfers of financial assets’
and IAS 12 ‘Deferred tax: recovery of underlying assets’. These
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the revisions had no material impact on the current period.
Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial Financial period
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, as adopted
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January
by the European Union.
to 31 December 2012, with comparative figures for the financial
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued years from 1 January to 31 December 2011 and, where appropriate,
by the International Accounting Standards Board. from 1 January to 31 December 2010.
Composition of financial statements Parent company financial statements
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, the The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline
functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance with plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements comprise: accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented
on page 220 and the accounting policies are given
(cid:115)(cid:0) Consolidated income statement
on page 221.
(cid:115)(cid:0) Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
2 Accounting principles and policies
(cid:115)(cid:0) Consolidated balance sheet
(cid:115)(cid:0) Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidation
(cid:115)(cid:0) Consolidated cash flow statement The consolidated financial statements include:
(cid:115)(cid:0) Notes to the financial statements. (cid:115)(cid:0) the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows,
of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
Composition of the Group
(cid:115)(cid:0) the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates and
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the opinion joint ventures.
of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or the net
assets of the Group is given in Note 43, ‘Principal Group companies’. The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up
to 31 December each year.
Accounting principles and policies
Entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries. Where the
cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, Group has the ability to exercise joint control, the entities are
as stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis. accounted for as joint ventures, and where the Group has the ability
to exercise significant influence, they are accounted for as associates.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures
the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using
described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. Information
the equity method of accounting.
on the application of these accounting policies, including areas of
estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, ‘Key accounting Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
judgements and estimates’. Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated
from the date control ceases.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.GSK Annual Report 2012 145
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
2 A ccounting principles and policies continued Revenue
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated
services are supplied or made available to external customers against
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries
orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the customer,
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group.
reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions and all
The relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures
relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings
and associates is also deferred until the products are sold to third
process is regarded as being complete.
parties. Transactions with non-controlling interests are recorded
directly in equity. Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of
is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered recoverable. discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future
rebates and returns. The methodology and assumptions used to
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries
estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in
and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures
the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
and associates. Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the
experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions are
operation acquired.
evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net research data and internally generated information. Value added tax
assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
income statement.
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the third party records
Business combinations the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-promotion
income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion activities is such
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition that the Group records no costs of sales. Pharmaceutical turnover
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent includes co-promotion revenue of £234 million (2011 – £221 million;
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date. 2010 – £294 million).
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and includes
the fair value of any contingent consideration. Where the Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance
consideration transferred exceeds the fair value of the net assets, with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired together with the
Expenditure
non-controlling interest, the excess is recorded as goodwill. The
costs of acquisition are charged to the income statement in the Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
period in which they are incurred. when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non-
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the
estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and the non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary,
achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred.
on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income
percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity.
statement as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-company transfers
Foreign currency translation are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers
are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency
of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are included in the advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected
income statement. has been undertaken.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, Research and development
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
and joint ventures are translated into Sterling using average rates
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
of exchange.
market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the and equipment used for research and development is capitalised
profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy.
joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences
arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the Environmental expenditure
Group’s net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
component of equity.
from past or current operations and from which no current or future
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. The Group
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably
which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total
adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels. costs and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated costs when it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy
income statement. their respective shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of
reimbursements are recorded as assets when virtually certain.146 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost
Legal and other disputes
of purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources qualifying assets in construction.
is considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value
the likely outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over
other expenses arising from claims received or other disputes. the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed, and
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, where appropriate adjusted, annually. The normal expected useful
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision
required to cover unasserted claims. In certain cases, an incurred Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
but not reported (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine Leasehold land and
this estimate.
buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of
the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation
cases would be included but no provision would be made. Costs and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the
associated with claims made by the Group against third parties are net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
Leases
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance
calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The assets are
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from included in PP&E or computer software and the capital elements of
the employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance
actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the present value leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis
of estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
yields of high quality corporate bonds. The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income
statement. All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance
are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over
sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the
the lease term.
expected and actual returns of assets and the effect of changes
in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the statement of Goodwill
comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at
to the income statement as incurred. The costs of other post- least annually.
employment liabilities are calculated in a similar way to defined
benefit pension schemes and spread over the period during which Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
benefit is expected to be derived from the employees’ services, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries. this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income
statement.
Employee share plans
Other intangible assets
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
share option and share award schemes. Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation
and impairments.
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and charged Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods. acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company 20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are
shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares available for use. The estimated useful lives for determining the
when employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running amortisation charge take into account patent lives, where applicable,
the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held as well as the value obtained from periods of non-exclusivity.
by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer is Asset lives are reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted, annually.
made between other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point that
periods of the related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate the contingent event becomes certain. Any development costs
proceeds receivable from employees on exercise. incurred by the Group and associated with acquired licences,
patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off to the
income statement when incurred, unless the criteria for recognition
of an internally generated intangible asset are met, usually when a
regulatory filing has been made in a major market and approval
is considered highly probable.GSK Annual Report 2012 147
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
2 A ccounting principles and policies continued Inventories
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a
related production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is
value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands
generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch
either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately
inventory is held as an asset when there is a high probability of
from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised over
regulatory approval for the product. Before that point a provision
their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where it is
is made against the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the
considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
provision is then reversed at the point when a high probability of
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for regulatory approval is determined.
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as
intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports a Trade receivables
significant business system and the expenditure leads to the creation
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
of a durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised over seven
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is
to ten years and other computer software over three to five years.
evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
Impairment of non-current assets previous experience and general economic conditions. When a trade
receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for against any provision available and then to the income statement.
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger cash
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets might
credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite
discounted where the effect is material.
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use
are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for impairment
Trade payables
is charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and then held at
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on
amortised cost which equates to nominal value. Long-term payables
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a
are discounted where the effect is material.
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and
only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do not Cash and cash equivalents
exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been recognised. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances
with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments
Investments in associates and joint ventures generally with maturities of three months or less. They are readily
convertible into known amounts of cash and have an insignificant
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
risk of changes in value.
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net assets
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits Borrowings
or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
Available-for-sale investments received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds,
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as available-
net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being
for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus
recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of
transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting
the relevant borrowing.
dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale
investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. Taxation
Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair
value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
asset directly and are charged to the income statement. tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
balance sheet date.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and losses
that have been deferred in other comprehensive income are Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
investments are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity investments Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be that future taxable profits will be available against which the
sold within one year. temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided
on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries,
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the
the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is
investments are accounted for on settlement date. probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
foreseeable future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date.148 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
Derivative financial instruments and hedging upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product
sales mix.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the
market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK are
light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps and forward foreign
experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions are
exchange contracts. The Group does not hold or issue derivative
evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
research data and internally generated information. Future events
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading and could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to
are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives designated change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
as hedging instruments are classified on inception as cash flow
hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges. Taxation
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the tax
that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are recognised in bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at the rates
profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in other comprehensive that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance
income are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged sheet date.
item affects profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to that future taxable profits will be available against which the
cash flow hedges. temporary differences can be utilised, based on management’s
assumptions relating to the amounts and timing of future taxable
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
profits. Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
in Note 14, ‘Taxation’. A 1% change in the Group’s effective tax rate
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
in 2012 would have changed the total tax charge for the year by
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not approximately £67 million.
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
income statement.
authorities. Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable
Discounting and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made,
management provides for its best estimate of the liability. These
Where the time effect of money is material, balances are discounted estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each
to current values using appropriate rates of interest. The unwinding dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgemental and
of the discounts is recorded in finance income and finance expense. could change substantially over time as new facts emerge and each
dispute progresses. Details relating to significant unresolved disputes
3 Key accounting judgements and estimates
are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’. GSK continues to believe that it
has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from
In preparing the financial statements, management is required to
open assessments. Where open issues exist the ultimate liability for
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets,
such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent
liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements.
upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates. The
or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
following are considered to be the key accounting judgements and
estimates made. Legal and other disputes
Turnover GSK provides for anticipated settlement costs where an outflow
of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate may be
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the
made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other
customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions
expenses arising from claims against the Group. These estimates
and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the
take into account the specific circumstances of each dispute and
earnings process is regarded as being complete.
relevant external advice, are inherently judgmental and could change
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and substantially over time as new facts emerge and each dispute
product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by progresses. Details of the status and various uncertainties involved
product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements in the significant unresolved disputes are set out in Note 44,
with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission ‘Legal proceedings’.
of claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale. Accruals
are made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts
or allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available
market information and historical experience.GSK Annual Report 2012 149
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
& remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
3 K ey accounting judgements and Other intangible assets
estimates continued Where intangible assets are acquired by GSK from third parties
the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to compounds
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have established in development are amortised from the point at which they are
provisions after taking into account the relevant facts and available for use, over their estimated useful lives, which may include
circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting periods of non-exclusivity. Estimated useful lives are reviewed
requirements. In respect of product liability claims related to certain annually and impairment tests are undertaken if events occur which
products there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements call into question the carrying values of the assets. Brands acquired
to enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision with businesses are capitalised independently where they are
required to cover unasserted claims. The Group may become separable and have an expected life of more than one year. Brands
involved in legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, lives, not exceeding 20 years, except where the end of the useful
that will result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these economic life cannot be foreseen. Where brands are not amortised,
cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included, they are subject to annual impairment tests.
but no provision would be made and no contingent liability can be
quantified. At 31 December 2012 provisions for legal and other Both initial valuations and valuations for subsequent impairment
disputes amounted to £0.5 billion (2011 – £2.8 billion). tests are based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted
future cash flows over the estimated useful life of the asset, where
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts limited, discounted using appropriate interest rates as set out in
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation Note 19, ‘Other intangible assets’. The assumptions relating to
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. future cash flows, estimated useful lives and discount rates are
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any judgemental. Future events could cause the assumptions used
legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions in these impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse
reported in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount. effect on the future results of the Group.
Property, plant and equipment Pensions and other post-employment benefits
As set out in Note 17, ‘Property, plant and equipment’ the carrying The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
values of property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment benefits are charged to the income statement in accordance with
when there is an indication that the values of the assets might be IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ over the period during which benefit
impaired. Impairment is determined by reference to the higher of is derived from the employee’s services. The costs are assessed
fair value less costs to sell and value in use, measured by assessing on the basis of assumptions selected by management. These
risk-adjusted future cash flows over the estimated useful life of the assumptions include future earnings and pension increases,
asset, discounted using appropriate interest rates. The ranges of discount rates, expected long term rates of return on assets and
estimated useful lives applied for each category of property, plant mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other
and equipment are set out in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and post-employment benefits’.
policies’. The assumptions relating to future cash flows, estimated
useful lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and The expected long term rates of return on bonds are determined
are therefore inherently judgemental. Given the large number of based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and
individual items of property, plant and equipment, it is not corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added to this
considered likely that a reasonably possible change in the for equities.
assumptions applied in the impairment test of any one item would
Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
lead to a material adverse effect on the future results of the Group. except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
However, future events could cause the assumptions used in these bonds where government bond yields are used. Sensitivity analysis
impairment tests to change, with a consequent adverse effect on is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
the future results of the Group. benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to
an increase in the net pension deficit of approximately £555 million
Goodwill
and an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately
Goodwill arising on business combinations is capitalised and £27 million. The selection of different assumptions could affect
allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit. It is deemed to the future results of the Group.
have an indefinite life and so is not amortised.
Annual impairment tests of the relevant cash generating units
are performed. Impairment tests are based on established market
multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using
appropriate interest rates. The assumptions used in these
impairment tests are set out in Note 18, ‘Goodwill’.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a
reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in
an impairment of the related goodwill. The assumptions relating to
future cash flows and discount rates are based on business forecasts
and are therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause
the assumptions used in these impairment tests to change with a
consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.150 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
4 New accounting requirements An amendment to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of items of other
comprehensive income’ was issued in June 2011 and will be
An amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ was issued in June implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. This amendment
2011 and will be implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. The changes some of the required disclosures in the financial statements,
amendment eliminates the ability to defer the recognition of gains particularly in respect of the statement of comprehensive income.
and losses (the ‘corridor’ method), requires remeasurements to be
An amendment to IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Offsetting financial assets
presented in other comprehensive income, requires past service cost
and financial liabilities’ was issued in December 2011 and will be
to be recognised in the income statement in the year of the plan
implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. The amendment requires
amendment rather than deferring the portion related to unvested
additional disclosures where financial assets and financial liabilities
benefits, requires the return on plan assets recognised in the income
are offset in the balance sheet.
statement to be calculated using the same rate as the discount rate
applied to the pension obligation and makes several other minor An amendment to IAS 32 ‘Offsetting financial assets and financial
accounting and disclosure changes. liabilities’ was issued in December 2011 and will be implemented
by GSK from 1 January 2014. The amendment provides additional
The revised Standard is expected to increase the pension charge in
guidance on when financial assets and financial liabilities may be
2013 by approximately £160 million. Had the Standard been applied
offset.
in 2012 it is estimated that the pension charge would have increased
by approximately £92 million (2011 – £73 million). The increase in IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ was first issued in November
effect in 2013 reflects the reduction in UK and US discount rates 2009 and amended in October 2010 and will be implemented
compared with 2012. by GSK from its current effective date on 1 January 2015.
The Standard will eventually replace IAS 39 and covers the
When the revised Standard is implemented in 2013, prior year
classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets
information will be restated onto a comparable basis.
and financial liabilities. The IASB intends to expand IFRS 9 to add
The following new and amended accounting standards and IFRIC new requirements for impairment and hedge accounting and for
interpretations have been issued by the IASB and are likely to affect it to become a complete replacement of IAS 39 in due course.
future Annual Reports, although, in their current forms, none is
expected to have a material impact on the results or financial 5 Exchange rates
position of the Group.
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’ was issued in May 2011 the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
and replaces the parts of IAS 27 ‘Separate financial statements’ that subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into
previously dealt with consolidated financial statements and SIC 12 Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
‘Consolidation – Special purpose entities’. The Standard uses control undertakings. The currencies which most influence these
as the single basis for determining whether or not an entity should translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
be consolidated.
IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ was issued in May 2011. The Standard 2012 2011 2010
Average rates:
requires an entity to report its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and
expenses of a joint operation in its financial statements and to apply US$/£ 1.59 1.61 1.55
the equity method of accounting to joint ventures in its consolidated Euro/£ 1.23 1.15 1.16
financial statements. Yen/£ 127 128 136
IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’ was issued in May Period end rates:
2011. The Standard requires disclosures related to the financial US$/£ 1.63 1.55 1.56
effects of and risks associated with an entity’s investments in Euro/£ 1.23 1.20 1.17
subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated Yen/£ 141 120 127
structured entities.
An amendment to IAS 28 ‘Investments in associates and joint
ventures’ was issued in May 2011. The Standard requires the equity
method of accounting to be applied to investments in associates and
joint ventures in consolidated accounts.
The EU endorsements of IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12 and the amended
IAS 28 do not require implementation until 1 January 2014, but they
will be implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013 in accordance
with the IASB’s implementation timetable.
IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ was issued in May 2011 and
will be implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013. The Standard
provides guidance on fair value measurement and introduces
consistent disclosure requirements for those situations where
another standard permits or requires fair value measurement.GSK Annual Report 2012 151
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
& remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
6 Segment information
The Group has revised its segment information disclosures to reflect changes in the internal reporting structures with effect from
1 January 2012. The Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses in Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific (excluding Australasia) have
been combined into one segment (EMAP). In addition, the classification of certain products has been changed in 2012, including:
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:52)(cid:35)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)
(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:27)
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)
(cid:115)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)Zovirax from the Dermatology therapy area to the Anti-virals therapy area.
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:14)
(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:70)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)
(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:35)(cid:37)(cid:52)(cid:9)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:37)(cid:52)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)
(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:14)
(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)
(cid:37)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:45)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36)(cid:0)
(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)
allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is recorded, and the profit analyses below have been
presented on that basis.
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:65)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)
(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)
costs not attributed to other segments.
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:6)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)
segment.
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)
(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)
movements on financial instruments and investments, profits on global asset disposals and other items of other operating income.
2011 2010
2012 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 7,000 7,022 7,629
Europe 5,001 5,700 6,479
EMAP 4,736 4,459 4,347
Japan 1,969 2,082 1,959
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 1,374 1,569 1,566
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) 1,241 1,280 1,319
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 21,321 22,112 23,299
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82) 5,110 5,275 5,093
26,431 27,387 28,392
2011 2010
2012 (restated) (restated)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:89) 7,291 7,298 7,238
Anti-virals 753 842 1,167
(cid:35)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77) 1,670 1,721 1,753
(cid:35)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76) 2,431 2,454 2,314
Metabolic 171 331 647
Anti-bacterials 1,247 1,390 1,396
(cid:47)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:83) 798 683 679
Dermatology 850 898 849
(cid:50)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83) 495 463 408
Immuno-inflammation 70 15 –
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83) 846 951 956
Vaccines 3,325 3,497 4,326
(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:54)(cid:9) 1,374 1,569 1,566
21,321 22,112 23,299152 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information continued
2011 2010
2012 (restated) (restated)
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category £m £m £m
Total wellness 2,008 2,278 2,202
(cid:47)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 1,797 1,711 1,596
Nutrition 1,050 1,025 953
(cid:51)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72) 255 261 342
5,110 5,275 5,093
(cid:36)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:20)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)
(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:18)(cid:17)(cid:21)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:20)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:19)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:19)(cid:22)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)
(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:20)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:22)(cid:20)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:13)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:14)
2011 2010
Segment profit 2012 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 4,786 4,646 5,043
Europe 2,629 3,154 3,743
EMAP 1,564 1,481 1,266
Japan 1,179 1,249 1,234
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 849 882 851
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36) (2,778) (2,801) (3,037)
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83) (438) (272) (350)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines operating profit 7,791 8,339 8,750
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:84) 938 1,084 1,044
(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)profit 8,729 9,423 9,794
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83) (399) (620) (297)
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:84) 8,330 8,803 9,497
Non-core items (938) (996) (5,714)
Total operating profit 7,392 7,807 3,783
Finance income 79 90 116
Finance costs (808) (799) (831)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 585 8
(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83) 29 15 81
Profit before taxation 6,692 7,698 3,157
Taxation (1,948) (2,240) (1,304)
Profit after taxation for the year 4,744 5,458 1,853
2011 2010
Depreciation and amortisation by segment 2012 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 22 31 33
Europe 24 29 28
EMAP 31 34 30
Japan 7 7 7
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 2 4 –
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36) 178 180 217
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) 553 555 592
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines depreciation and amortisation 817 840 907
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) 43 43 41
(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) 860 883 948
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) 108 99 84
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) 968 982 1,032
Non-core depreciation and amortisation 477 441 647
Total depreciation and amortisation 1,445 1,423 1,679GSK Annual Report 2012 153
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
6 Segment information continued
2011 2010
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment 2012 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 1 1 –
Europe 1 1 1
EMAP 1 – 1
Japan – 1 1
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) – 1 –
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36) 2 2 8
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) 31 45 121
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines impairment 36 51 132
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84) – 3 3
(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84) 36 54 135
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84) 18 9 4
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84) 54 63 139
Non-core impairment 700 240 226
Total impairment 754 303 365
2011 2010
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment 2012 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) – – –
Europe – – –
EMAP – – –
Japan – – –
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) – – –
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36) (4) (3) (1)
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) (60) (32) (4)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines impairment reversals (64) (35) (5)
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83) – – –
(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83) (64) (35) (5)
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83) (3) – –
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83) (67) (35) (5)
Non-core impairment reversals (59) – (14)
Total impairment reversals (126) (35) (19)154 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information continued
2011
2012 (restated)
Net assets by segment
£m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 515 580
Europe 887 895
EMAP 2,326 2,332
Japan 409 525
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 1,529 754
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36) 650 1,044
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) 14,713 12,933
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines net operating assets 21,029 19,063
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:83) 2,272 2,406
(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:83) 23,301 21,469
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:83) (3,308) (5,311)
Net operating assets 19,993 16,158
Net debt (14,037) (9,003)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 579 560
Derivative financial instruments 38 (22)
(cid:35)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) 110 469
Assets held for sale 64 665
Net assets 6,747 8,827
The other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals segment includes assets for the centrally managed pharmaceutical and vaccine
(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:22)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:21)(cid:25)(cid:25)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:22)(cid:17)(cid:22)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:0)
the standard cost of product charged to businesses.
Geographical information
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:14)(cid:0)
2011 2010
2012 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by location of customer
£m £m £m
(cid:53)(cid:43) 1,525 1,612 2,161
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 8,446 8,684 9,345
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:68) 16,460 17,091 16,886
External turnover 26,431 27,387 28,392
Turnover by location of subsidiary 2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
(cid:53)(cid:43) 3,738 3,850 4,965
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 11,250 11,797 13,072
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:68) 19,719 20,986 21,220
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 34,707 36,633 39,257
(cid:53)(cid:43) 1,508 1,557 2,032
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 2,886 3,140 3,717
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:68) 3,882 4,549 5,116
Inter-segment turnover 8,276 9,246 10,865
(cid:53)(cid:43) 2,230 2,293 2,933
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 8,364 8,657 9,355
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:68) 15,837 16,437 16,104
External turnover 26,431 27,387 28,392GSK Annual Report 2012 155
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
6 Segment information continued
2012 2011 2010
Operating profit by location
£m £m £m
(cid:53)(cid:43) 1,516 1,063 1,033
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 1,421 3,298 420
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:68) 4,455 3,446 2,330
Total operating profit 7,392 7,807 3,783
2011
2012
(restated)
Net operating assets by location £m £m
(cid:53)(cid:43) 2,686 2,927
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 5,635 2,085
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:68) 11,672 11,146
Net operating assets 19,993 16,158
2011
2012 (restated) Non-current assets by location
£m £m
(cid:53)(cid:43) 6,888 5,041
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33) 7,312 5,881
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:68) 9,875 10,101
Non-current assets 24,075 21,023
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments, pension
assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.
7 Other operating income
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Milestone income 3 10 7
(cid:41)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) (26) (78) (65)
(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) 19 10 17
Disposal of businesses and assets and legal settlements 661 322 227
(cid:39)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:51) 233 – –
(cid:39)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:13)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69) 349 – –
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration
recognised in business combinations (13) – –
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 3 10 (6)
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69) 27 4 17
1,256 278 197
(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:13)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)
brands of £559 million (2011 – £23 million of costs reported associated with the disposal).
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:13)(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:13)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:0)
(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:20)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)
(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:64)(cid:33)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:7)(cid:14)
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:19)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:13)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)
(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:14)156 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
8 Operating profit
2012 2011 2010
The following items have been included in operating profit:
£m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 6,843 6,751 6,994
Advertising 839 910 971
Distribution costs 386 432 413
(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84) 871 893 1,146
(cid:41)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83) (68) 155 186
Amortisation of intangible assets 574 530 533
Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, net of reversals 696 113 160
Net foreign exchange losses 61 25 60
Inventories:
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83) 6,820 6,768 7,014
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83) 302 85 305
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83) (61) (62) (66)
(cid:47)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:26)
Minimum lease payments 156 139 136
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) 14 11 14
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:66)(cid:13)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) 3 4 7
(cid:38)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:89)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:9) 23.2 23.7 22.2
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:21)(cid:21)(cid:23)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:21)(cid:25)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:19)(cid:20)(cid:21)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:14)(cid:0)
(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:64)(cid:45)(cid:65)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:7)(cid:14)
2012 2011 2010
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates:
£m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 3.9 3.7 3.7
(cid:33)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:89)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:66)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0) 10.1 10.2 9.5
Audit-related assurance services, including attestation under s.404
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:13)(cid:47)(cid:88)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:18) 3.3 3.4 3.3
Audit and audit-related services 17.3 17.3 16.5
Taxation compliance 0.4 0.2 1.0
Taxation advice 3.2 2.5 1.6
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83) 1.7 2.8 0.8
All other services 0.6 0.9 2.3
23.2 23.7 22.2
(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:26)(cid:0)
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Audit 0.6 0.4 0.4
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83) – – –GSK Annual Report 2012 157
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
9 Employee costs
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
(cid:55)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83) 5,846 5,312 5,079
(cid:51)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83) 643 641 600
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 3 341 554
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83) 220 198 179
(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83) 131 259 582
6,843 6,751 6,994
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The charge for pension and other post-employment costs in the year includes a credit of £395 million following a change in policy
(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:0)
(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:24)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:64)(cid:48)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:13)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:89)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:7)(cid:14)
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78) 156 146 119
(cid:48)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78) 45 23 21
(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:80)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83) 11 20 27
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83) 8 9 12
220 198 179
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2012 2011 2010
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 31,033 30,939 30,883
(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) 54,803 53,826 53,778
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84) 12,845 12,636 13,824
98,681 97,401 98,485
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of each
(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:19)(cid:24)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:51)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:43)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:67)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)
was nil (2011 – nil).
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:45)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:37)(cid:52)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:26)
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
(cid:55)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83) 20 24 20
(cid:51)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83) 2 2 2
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83) 13 11 11
38 40 36158 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
10 Major restructuring costs
(cid:45)(cid:65)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:88)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)
(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:23)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:25)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)
(cid:51)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:25)(cid:14)
(cid:47)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:21)(cid:21)(cid:23)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:19)(cid:21)(cid:22)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:88)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)
in the following areas:
(cid:115)(cid:0) (cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:14)
(cid:115)(cid:0) (cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:74)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:14)
(cid:115)(cid:0) (cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:14)
(cid:115)(cid:0) (cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:14)
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:22)(cid:21)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)
(cid:97)(cid:19)(cid:22)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:14)
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes is as follows:
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) (268) (249) (837)
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) 12 11 40
Impairment losses recognised (7) (131) (75)
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:13)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83) (18) (48) (240)
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83) (276) (173) (233)
(557) (590) (1,345)
(cid:33)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:23)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:23)(cid:21)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:13)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)
(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:20)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:20)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:13)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)
a result of the major restructuring programmes. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and include the termination of leases,
site closure costs, consultancy and project management fees.
11 Finance income
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) 59 63 58
available-for-sale investments 5 7 8
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss – – 24
loans and receivables 9 15 13
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) 4 5 –
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 2 – 13
79 90 116
(cid:33)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:20)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:64)(cid:38)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)
(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:7)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:13)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:13)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:25)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest income.GSK Annual Report 2012 159
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
12 Finance expense
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
financial liabilities at amortised cost (731) (718) (767)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (14) (26) –
Fair value hedges:
fair value movements on derivatives designated as hedging instruments (28) (12) 26
fair value adjustments on hedged items 27 11 (27)
Fair value movements on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (13) (15) (17)
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)from other comprehensive income – – (3)
(cid:53)(cid:78)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83) (15) (12) (18)
Movements on amounts owed to non-controlling interests (10) (7) –
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:69) (24) (20) (25)
(808) (799) (831)
(cid:33)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:20)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:64)(cid:38)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)
(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:7)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:13)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:13)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:33)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:25)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense.
13 Associates and joint ventures
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Associates:
(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) 58 41 32
(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:49)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14) – 9 79
(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:15)(cid:8)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83) 1 (4) (7)
59 46 104
(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)losses of joint ventures (30) (31) (23)
29 15 81
(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83) 203 14 18
(cid:51)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83) 124 104 90
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:14)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:84)(cid:68)(cid:14)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:75)(cid:89)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:14)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:84)(cid:68)(cid:14)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)
in July 2012.
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:26)
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Total turnover:
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) 1,280 1,164 1,171
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:49)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14) – 440 4,754
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83) 106 112 65
1,386 1,716 5,990
Total profit:
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) 235 231 233
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:49)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14) – 36 465
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83) (5) (21) (23)
230 246 675
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) included in the summarised income statement information above represent the
estimated earnings of the Aspen group in the year.160 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
14 Taxation
2012 2011 2010
Taxation charge based on profits for the year
£m £m £m
(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69) 365 647 82
(cid:44)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:70) (180) (164) (156)
185 483 (74)
(cid:47)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) 1,521 1,603 1,496
(cid:35)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) 1,706 2,086 1,422
Deferred taxation 242 154 (118)
1,948 2,240 1,304
2012 2011 2010
Reconciliation of the taxation rate on Group profits
% % %
(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) 24.5 26.5 28.0
Differences in overseas taxation rates 4.2 2.5 8.1
(cid:34)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:83) (1.7) (1.4) (2.6)
(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83) (1.1) (1.6) (3.7)
Inter-company stock profit 1.1 (0.7) 1.7
Impact of share based payments – (0.2) 1.4
Tax on profit of associates – – (1.2)
(cid:8)(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:15)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:9)(cid:15)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83) (0.6) (0.4) 5.5
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83) (1.8) (0.3) 6.2
Prior year items (2.2) 1.7 (6.5)
Disposal of associate – 1.7 –
Tax on unremitted earnings 0.4 1.1 –
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71) 6.3 0.2 4.4
Tax rate 29.1 29.1 41.3
In 2012, within restructuring there is a charge of £420 million, comprising predominantly deferred tax and hence non cash, relating to
(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:14)(cid:0)
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:75)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:109)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:49)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14)
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)
(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)
with the normal rates of tax in that territory. The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge increased earnings per share by 2.3p in 2012,
(cid:18)(cid:14)(cid:17)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:14)(cid:22)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:38)(cid:50)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:13)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)
arising on inventory held by the Group at the year-end by applying the tax rate of the country in which the inventory is held (rather than the
(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:33)(cid:33)(cid:48)(cid:9)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)
(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:13)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:38)(cid:50)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:14)(cid:17)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)
(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:16)(cid:14)(cid:23)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:27)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:14)(cid:23)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:13)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:13)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:14)
2012 2011 2010
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
(cid:35)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) 34 3 –
34 3 –
Deferred taxation
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) (25) 47 2
Defined benefit plans 221 268 1
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – – 1
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 23 (28)
196 338 (24)
(cid:52)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:15)(cid:8)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69) 230 341 (24)
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments.GSK Annual Report 2012 161
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
14 Taxation continued
Issues relating to taxation
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)
(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:13)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:13)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)
(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)
(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:14)
(cid:36)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:74)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:65)(cid:0)
(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:35)(cid:50)(cid:33)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:74)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:50)(cid:33)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)
(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:75)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:14)
(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)
agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome
of agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation where appropriate.
Provision for deferred tax liabilities of £109 million have been made in respect of taxation that would arise on the distribution of profits
retained by certain overseas subsidiaries. No further provision is made, on the grounds that the Group is able to control the timing of the
reversal of remaining temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The aggregate amount
of these unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £18 billion (2011 – £28 billion). The unprovided deferred tax on
unremitted earnings at 31 December 2012 is estimated to be £500 million (2011 – £500 million), which relates to taxes payable on
(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)
for exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions.
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
(cid:48)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:6) Manu- (cid:51)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) (cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)
Accelerated Intra- other post (cid:44)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:76) facturing (cid:51)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:75) option net (cid:47)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)
capital group employment Tax (cid:6)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82) restruct- valuation and award temporary within
allowances Intangibles profit benefits losses disputes uring adjustments schemes differences countries Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax assets at
1 January 2012 58 338 1,197 1,249 120 194 79 132 167 893 (1,578) 2,849
Deferred tax liabilities at
1 January 2012 (579) (1,592) – – – (91) (3) (17) – (118) 1,578 (822)
At 1 January 2012 (521) (1,254) 1,197 1,249 120 103 76 115 167 775 – 2,027
Exchange adjustments 9 37 (65) (48) (33) (5) (1) – (6) (1) – (113)
(cid:8)(cid:35)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:9)(cid:15)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)
statement (11) 410 (53) (22) (545) 30 (16) (150) (4) 119 – (242)
(cid:8)(cid:35)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:9)(cid:15)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0) – – – – – – – – (25) – – (25)
(cid:35)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)
comprehensive income – – – 221 – – – – – – – 221
(cid:33)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83) – (1,058) – – 703 – – – – 105 – (250)
Transfer to current tax (237) (237)
At 31 December 2012 (523) (1,865) 1,079 1,163 245 128 59 (35) 132 998 – 1,381
Deferred tax assets at
31 December 2012 – 726 1,079 1,163 245 215 63 47 132 1,341 (2,626) 2,385
Deferred tax liabilities at
31 December 2012 (523) (2,591) – – – (87) (4) (82) – (343) 2,626 (1,004)
(523) (1,865) 1,079 1,163 245 128 59 (35) 132 998 – 1,381
The deferred tax credit to income relating to changes in tax rates is £52 million (2011 – £11 million, 2010 – £11 million). All other deferred
(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)
expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis.162 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
14 Taxation continued
Tax losses (cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68) (cid:53)(cid:78)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)
2012 2011 2012 2011
£m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
(cid:55)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:83) 190 199 150 303
In more than 10 years 421 217 549 494
Available indefinitely 237 81 4,053 4,426
At 31 December 848 497 4,752 5,223
Deferred tax asset 245 120 – –
In addition, the Group had capital losses at 31 December 2012 of approximately £4.3 billion (2011 – £4.3 billion) in respect of which no
deferred tax asset has been recognised. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available
to utilise losses.
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years
As a global organisation there are many factors which could affect the future effective tax rate of the Group. The mix of profits across
different territories, transfer pricing and other disputes with tax authorities and the location of research and development activity can all
(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:14)(cid:0)
(cid:35)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)
(cid:39)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:89)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)
as part of the ongoing phased reduction in the main rate of corporation tax, the main rate will reduce further to 21% from April 2014.
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:109)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:22)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:20)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:19)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)
(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:66)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)
patent box regime which will apply a reduced rate of corporation tax to income from patents with effect from April 2013. In July 2012,
(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:19)(cid:14)
(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:75)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)
(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:109)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:0)
(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)
(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:33)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:45)(cid:0)
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:6)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:43)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)
business and internal trading arrangements by substantially decreasing administrative complexity and will deliver supply chain and working
capital efficiencies. Non-cash tax charges totalling approximately £600 million are expected over the next two years arising from the
unwinding of deferred profit in inventory, as existing inventory produced prior to the restructuring leaves the supply chain.
15 Earnings per share
2012 2011 2010
pence pence pence
(cid:34)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 92.9 104.6 32.1
Diluted earnings per share 91.5 103.2 31.9
(cid:34)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)
(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:47)(cid:48)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:0)
(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:51)(cid:47)(cid:48)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:82)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:14)
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation to
assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where its
(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:75)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)
scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2012 2011 2010
Weighted average number of shares in issue
millions millions millions
(cid:34)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:67) 4,912 5,028 5,085
Dilution for share options and awards 77 71 43
Diluted 4,989 5,099 5,128GSK Annual Report 2012 163
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
16 Dividends
2012 2011 2010
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
(cid:48)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:15)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69) (pence) £m (cid:48)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:15)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69) (pence) £m (cid:48)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:15)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69) (pence) £m
First interim 5 July 2012 17 846 7 July 2011 16 814 8 July 2010 15 764
(cid:51)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:77) (cid:20)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18) 17 830 (cid:22)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17) 16 809 (cid:23)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:16) 15 759
Third interim 3 January 2013 18 870 5 January 2012 17 847 6 January 2011 16 816
Fourth interim 11 April 2013 22 1,062 12 April 2012 21 1,043 7 April 2011 19 967
Annual total 74 3,608 70 3,513 65 3,306
(cid:51)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76) 12 April 2012 5 248
Total 74 3,608 75 3,761 65 3,306
(cid:53)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:38)(cid:50)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:51)(cid:43)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:89)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)
(cid:84)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:70)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:71)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:0)
paid in 2012, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2011, the supplemental dividend for 2011 and the first and second interim
dividends for 2012.
The amounts recognised in each year are as follows:
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,814 3,406 3,205
17 Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
(cid:44)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68) (cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84) Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17) 6,118 10,541 2,236 18,895
Exchange adjustments (78) (155) (15) (248)
Additions 113 294 654 1,061
Additions through business combinations 18 5 28 51
(cid:35)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83) – – 8 8
Disposals and write-offs (91) (443) (58) (592)
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83) 334 339 (757) (84)
Transfer to assets held for sale (63) (192) (4) (259)
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17) 6,351 10,389 2,092 18,832
Exchange adjustments (186) (239) (57) (482)
Additions 85 209 871 1,165
Additions through business combinations 18 15 – 33
(cid:35)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83) – – 9 9
Disposals and write-offs (250) (630) (3) (883)
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83) 533 376 (977) (68)
Transfer from assets held for sale 81 49 6 136
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18) 6,632 10,169 1,941 18,742164 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
17 Property, plant and equipment continued
Plant,
(cid:44)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68) (cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84) Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation at 1 January 2011 (2,289) (6,959) – (9,248)
Exchange adjustments 16 88 – 104
(cid:35)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82) (202) (691) – (893)
Disposals and write-offs 51 397 – 448
Transfer to assets held for sale 28 124 – 152
Depreciation at 31 December 2011 (2,396) (7,041) – (9,437)
Exchange adjustments 73 164 – 237
(cid:35)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82) (228) (643) – (871)
Disposals and write-offs 150 491 – 641
Transfer from assets held for sale (36) (20) – (56)
Depreciation at 31 December 2012 (2,437) (7,049) – (9,486)
Impairment at 1 January 2011 (100) (438) (64) (602)
Exchange adjustments 3 6 1 10
Disposals and write-offs 21 59 – 80
Impairment losses (66) (121) (3) (190)
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) 4 31 – 35
Transfer to assets held for sale – 20 – 20
Impairment at 31 December 2011 (138) (443) (66) (647)
Exchange adjustments 3 9 2 14
Disposals and write-offs 21 103 1 125
Impairment losses (18) (38) (2) (58)
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83) 19 104 3 126
Transfer from assets held for sale (39) (1) – (40)
Impairment at 31 December 2012 (152) (266) (62) (480)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2011 (2,534) (7,484) (66) (10,084)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2012 (2,589) (7,315) (62) (9,966)
Net book value at 1 January 2011 3,729 3,144 2,172 9,045
Net book value at 31 December 2011 3,817 2,905 2,026 8,748
Net book value at 31 December 2012 4,043 2,854 1,879 8,776
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:75)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:19)(cid:12)(cid:22)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)
(2011 – £3,580 million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £376 million (2011 – £143 million) and properties with leases of
less than 50 years £56 million (2011 – £94 million).
Included in land and buildings at 31 December 2012 are leased assets with a cost of £766 million (2011 – £559 million), accumulated
depreciation of £315 million (2011 – £303 million), impairment of £19 million (2011 – £19 million) and a net book value of £432 million
(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:19)(cid:23)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:80)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)
(2011 – £81 million), accumulated depreciation of £55 million (2011 – £64 million), impairment of £nil (2011 – £14 million) and a net book
(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:21)(cid:21)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:19)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs to sell or
value in use. The value in use calculations determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant
(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:13)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:55)(cid:33)(cid:35)(cid:35)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:23)(cid:5)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)
(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:108)(cid:67)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:75)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:109)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)
(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:109)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:33)(cid:35)(cid:35)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)
(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:13)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:88)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:5)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:21)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)
(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:50)(cid:6)(cid:36)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:25)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:24)(cid:25)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:39)(cid:6)(cid:33)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:18)(cid:20)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:23)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:23)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)
(2011 – £131 million) arising from the major restructuring programmes.
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:66)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)
impairments are deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.GSK Annual Report 2012 165
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
18 Goodwill
2012 2011
£m £m
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:89) 3,754 3,606
Exchange adjustments (177) (30)
Additions through business combinations (Note 38) 873 176
Movements in contingent consideration balances (91) 2
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:82) 4,359 3,754
Net book value at 1 January 3,754 3,606
Net book value at 31 December 4,359 3,754
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:108)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:20)(cid:0)(cid:33)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:16)(cid:25)(cid:14)
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:89)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:13)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:88)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)
businesses:
2012 2011
Cash generating unit £m £m
(cid:51)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14) (cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:48)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83) 845 891
(cid:40)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14) (cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:48)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83) 779 –
(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78) (cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:48)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83) 444 456
(cid:50)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14) (cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83) 429 451
(cid:51)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14) (cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:48)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83) 291 306
(cid:39)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:79)(cid:51)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:43)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:43)(cid:14)(cid:43)(cid:14) Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 221 260
(cid:36)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) (cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:48)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83) 181 181
(cid:48)(cid:70)(cid:73)(cid:90)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:41)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83) (cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 152 252
(cid:35)(cid:46)(cid:51)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:14) (cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 135 142
Maxinutrition Group
(cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:44)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68) (cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 114 114
(cid:48)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:79)(cid:90)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:14)(cid:33)(cid:14) Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 109 102
(cid:35)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:35)(cid:34)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:14)(cid:33)(cid:14) EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 88 88
(cid:44)(cid:65)(cid:66)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:79)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:14)(cid:33)(cid:14)(cid:41)(cid:14)(cid:35)(cid:14)(cid:89)(cid:38)(cid:14) EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 55 66
NovaMin Technology, Inc. (cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69) 50 52
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:83) 466 393
4,359 3,754
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:48)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)
(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:14)
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:41)(cid:36)(cid:0)(cid:34)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:51)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:36)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)
(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:37)(cid:45)(cid:33)(cid:48)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:42)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)
(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:108)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:80)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:87)(cid:69)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:78)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)
cash flows.
(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:79)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:24)(cid:23)(cid:24)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:17)(cid:12)(cid:20)(cid:23)(cid:16)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)
to the other cash generating units were not significant relative to the total balance.166 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
18 Goodwill continued
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using either a fair value less costs to sell model or a value in use model.
Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the cash
generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated. Initially a post-tax discount rate is applied to calculate the net present value of the
(cid:80)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:13)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:88)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:109)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:33)(cid:35)(cid:35)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:23)(cid:5)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:0)
across large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific country or currency risks.
(cid:38)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:67)(cid:85)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:109)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:14)(cid:0)
A post-tax discount rate is applied to the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:68)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:109)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)
(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:83)(cid:26)
Valuation basis (cid:40)(cid:73)(cid:71)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:69)
(cid:43)(cid:69)(cid:89)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83) (cid:51)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)
Advertising and promotion investment
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
(cid:33)(cid:68)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:72)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:79)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:73)(cid:69)(cid:87)(cid:0)
of support needed for innovation and expansion.
(cid:52)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:7)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:70)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:85)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:13)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:87)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:14)
(cid:36)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:39)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:85)(cid:80)(cid:0)(cid:55)(cid:33)(cid:35)(cid:35)(cid:12)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:68)(cid:74)(cid:85)(cid:83)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:80)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:79)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:14)
Period of specific projected cash flows 5 years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
(cid:53)(cid:51)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:0) (cid:17)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:14)(cid:65)(cid:14)(cid:0) (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:23)(cid:5)
Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 8%
EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1.5% p.a. 10%
Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 0.5% p.a. 6%
(cid:54)(cid:73)(cid:73)(cid:54)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0) (cid:18)(cid:14)(cid:21)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:14)(cid:65)(cid:14)(cid:0) (cid:17)(cid:16)(cid:5)
(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:48)(cid:72)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:77)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:69)(cid:85)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:0)(cid:54)(cid:65)(cid:67)(cid:67)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0) (cid:17)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:14)(cid:65)(cid:14)(cid:0) (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:23)(cid:5)
(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0) (cid:19)(cid:5)(cid:0)(cid:80)(cid:14)(cid:65)(cid:14)(cid:0) (cid:0)(cid:0)(cid:23)(cid:5)
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets. The terminal growth rates used in
the fair value less costs to sell calculations for the cash generating units reflect the impact of future generic competition and take account
of new product launches.
The Pharmaceutical and Vaccines cash generating units comprise a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite
(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:87)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:82)(cid:89)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:86)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:85)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:22)(cid:16)(cid:25)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:8)(cid:18)(cid:16)(cid:17)(cid:17)(cid:0)(cid:110)(cid:0)(cid:97)(cid:22)(cid:23)(cid:25)(cid:0)(cid:77)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:9)(cid:14)(cid:0)(cid:52)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:35)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:83)(cid:85)(cid:77)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:40)(cid:69)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:72)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:0)(cid:85)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:79)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:77)(cid:80)(cid:82)(cid:73)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:0)(cid:67)(cid:79)(cid:76)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:67)(cid:84)(cid:73)(cid:79)(cid:78)(cid:0)
of smaller cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £1.52 billion.
(2011 – £1.57 billion).
(cid:36)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:73)(cid:76)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:79)(cid:70)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:69)(cid:108)(cid:78)(cid:73)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:76)(cid:73)(cid:70)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:66)(cid:82)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:68)(cid:83)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:82)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:86)(cid:69)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:0)(cid:46)(cid:79)(cid:84)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:17)(cid:25)(cid:0)(cid:64)(cid:47)(cid:84)(cid:72)(cid:69)(cid:82)(cid:0)(cid:73)(cid:78)(cid:84)(cid:65)(cid:78)(cid:71)(cid:73)(cid:66)(cid:76)(cid:69)(cid:0)(cid:65)(cid:83)(cid:83)(cid:69)(cid:84)(cid:83)(cid:7)(cid:14)
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result
in an impairment of the related goodwill.GSK Annual Report 2012 167
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
19 Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2011 1,174 7,671 377 2,564 11,786
Exchange adjustments 2 (15) (2) (51) (66)
Capitalised internal development costs 81 – – – 81
Additions through business combinations – 5 62 61 128
Capitalised borrowing costs 5 6 – – 11
Other additions 17 218 – – 235
Disposals and asset write-offs (5) (106) – – (111)
Reclassifications 84 – – – 84
Transfer to assets held for sale – (3) (309) (296) (608)
Cost at 31 December 2011 1,358 7,776 128 2,278 11,540
Exchange adjustments (30) (233) (8) (67) (338)
Capitalised internal development costs 62 74 – – 136
Additions through business combinations 2 3,258 – – 3,260
Capitalised borrowing costs 5 7 – – 12
Other additions 49 209 – – 258
Disposals and asset write-offs (13) (487) – – (500)
Reclassifications 68 – – – 68
Transfer from/(to) assets held for sale – – 292 (27) 265
Cost at 31 December 2012 1,501 10,604 412 2,184 14,701
Amortisation at 1 January 2011 (862) (1,689) (53) – (2,604)
Exchange adjustments – 3 (2) – 1
Charge for the year (89) (419) (22) – (530)
Disposals and asset write-offs 5 – – – 5
Transfer to assets held for sale – – 45 – 45
Amortisation at 31 December 2011 (946) (2,105) (32) – (3,083)
Exchange adjustments 20 70 – – 90
Charge for the year (97) (453) (24) – (574)
Disposals and asset write-offs 11 15 – – 26
Transfer from assets held for sale – – (50) – (50)
Amortisation at 31 December 2012 (1,012) (2,473) (106) – (3,591)
Impairment at 1 January 2011 (36) (587) – (27) (650)
Exchange adjustments 1 (5) – – (4)
Impairment losses (2) (133) – – (135)
Reversal of impairments – 22 – – 22
Disposals and asset write-offs 1 101 – – 102
Transfer to assets held for sale – 10 – – 10
Impairment at 31 December 2011 (36) (592) – (27) (655)
Exchange adjustments – 20 2 1 23
Impairment losses (3) (536) (131) (26) (696)
Disposals and asset write-offs – 379 – – 379
Impairment at 31 December 2012 (39) (729) (129) (52) (949)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2011 (982) (2,697) (32) (27) (3,738)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2012 (1,051) (3,202) (235) (52) (4,540)
Net book value at 1 January 2011 276 5,395 324 2,537 8,532
Net book value at 31 December 2011 376 5,079 96 2,251 7,802
Net book value at 31 December 2012 450 7,402 177 2,132 10,161168 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
19 Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2011 2011
2012 (restated) 2012 (restated )
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 378 304 309 12
Selling, general and administration 97 89 3 3
Research and development 99 137 384 98
574 530 696 113
The charge for impairments in the year includes the impairments of Horizant, alli and the ViiV Healthcare compound, lersivirine.
The net book value of computer software includes £303 million (2011 – £277 million) of internally generated costs.
Licences, patents, etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are
either marketed or in use, or still in development. The net book value includes £8 million (2011 – £5 million) of internally generated costs.
Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of additions through business combinations in the year. The book values of the largest
individual items are as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
dolutegravir 1,777 –
Benlysta 1,183 –
FluLaval/Fluviral 549 606
Lovaza 445 536
Selzentry 251 274
Arzerra 276 284
Duac 130 148
Toctino 128 –
Fraxiparine 91 113
Others 2,572 3,118
7,402 5,079
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop,
Inc. in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001 and CNS, Inc. in 2006, together with a number of pharmaceutical brands from the
acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in 2009. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Panadol 413 424
Sensodyne 256 266
Stiefel trade name 201 209
Breathe Right 191 201
Physiogel 174 169
Polident 108 112
Corega 97 100
Biotene 106 110
Poligrip 66 69
Others 520 591
2,132 2,251
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing
support. The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and
market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively low.
The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful
lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment applying a fair value less costs to sell methodology, generally using five year post-tax cash flow
forecasts with a terminal value calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for
country and currency specific risks. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product contribution and the
future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions. These assumptions are
based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in market
conditions and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between nil and 3% are management’s estimates
of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a
reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these brands.GSK Annual Report 2012 169
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
20 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint Associated 2012 Joint Associated 2011
ventures undertakings Total ventures undertakings Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 29 531 560 54 1,027 1,081
Exchange adjustments (3) (32) (35) – (61) (61)
Additions 58 41 99 33 2 35
Disposals – – – (25) (460) (485)
Transfer from other investments – – – – 3 3
Distributions received (25) (21) (46) (2) (23) (25)
Other movements (7) (21) (28) – (3) (3)
(Loss)/profit after tax recognised in the consolidated
income statement (30) 59 29 (31) 46 15
At 31 December 22 557 579 29 531 560
The Group held one significant associated undertaking at 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2012, the Group owned 84.7 million shares or 19% of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited. Aspen, listed on the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange, is Africa’s largest pharmaceutical manufacturer and a major supplier of branded and generic pharmaceutical,
healthcare and nutritional products to the southern African and selected international markets. The investment had a book value at
31 December 2012 of £430 million (2011 – £393 million) and a market value of £1,037 million (2011 – £627 million). Although the Group
holds less than 20% of the ownership interest and voting control of Aspen, the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence
through both its shareholding and its nominated director’s active participation on the Aspen Board of Directors.
Other movements in the year includes deferred profit provided on the sale of the Classic Brands business of a Group market to Aspen.
During 2012, GSK made additional capital contributions of £39 million to the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture (2011 – £32 million).
On 29 October 2012, GSK acquired the 50% share of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture previously held by Shionogi & Co Ltd.,
and from that date has accounted for the entity as a subsidiary company. See Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’.
Summarised balance sheet information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2012 2011
£m £m
Total assets:
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited 2,439 2,165
Others 363 356
2,802 2,521
Total liabilities:
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (1,085) (988)
Others (78) (84)
(1,163) (1,072)
Net assets 1,639 1,449
The summarised balance sheet information in respect of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited is based on preliminary results information
and analysts forecasts available at 31 December 2012.
Investments in joint ventures comprise £112 million share of gross assets (2011 – £49 million) and £90 million share of gross liabilities
(2011 – £20 million). These principally arise from a 50% interest in one joint venture, Japan Vaccine Co., Ltd., with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd.
The joint venture holds the development and commercial rights for existing preventative vaccines from both parent companies. It will
supply globally recommended vaccines including Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine, Rotavirus vaccine, Seasonal flu vaccine, Mumps
vaccine, Diptheria Pertussis (DTP) vaccine and Measles Rubella vaccine (MRV) in Japan.170 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
21 Other investments
2012 2011
£m £m
At 1 January 590 711
Exchange adjustments (31) (2)
Additions 229 73
Net fair value movements 78 (24)
Impairment losses (28) (97)
Transfer to investments in associates and joint ventures – (3)
Equity investments converted into subsidiary on acquisition of business (23) –
Disposals (28) (68)
At 31 December 787 590
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each balance
sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid
price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information, including the
current market value of similar instruments and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. The Group holds a number of equity
investments in entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. Other investments include listed investments of
£589 million (2011 – £385 million), the increase primarily arising from additions and fair value adjustments.
Additions in the year include further investments in Theravance Inc. of £146 million.
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from equity to the income statement based on average cost for shares
acquired at different times.
The impairment losses recorded above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within other operating income, together
with amounts reclassified from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially result from prolonged
or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further declines in fair
value are immediately taken to the income statement.
Other investments include assets that have been impaired, as follows:
2012 2011
£m £m
Original cost 481 509
Cumulative impairments recognised in the income statement (381) (386)
Subsequent fair value increases 71 27
Carrying value at 31 December 171 150
22 Other non-current assets
2012 2011
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 359 337
Pension schemes in surplus 124 20
Other receivables 199 168
682 525
23 Inventories
2012 2011
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 965 1,114
Work in progress 1,337 1,168
Finished goods 1,667 1,591
3,969 3,873GSK Annual Report 2012 171
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
24 Trade and other receivables
2012 2011
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of provision for bad and doubtful debts 4,115 4,441
Prepaid pension contributions 1 2
Other prepayments and accrued income 284 339
Interest receivable 11 8
Employee loans and advances 40 41
Other receivables 791 745
5,242 5,576
Trade receivables include £257 million (2011 – £293 million) after provision for bad and doubtful debts (£315 million before provision,
2011 – £335 million) due from state hospital authorities in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Trade receivables also include
£31 million (2011 – £42 million) due from associates and joint ventures.
2012 2011
Bad and doubtful debt provision
£m £m
At 1 January 152 150
Exchange adjustments (5) (2)
Charge for the year 34 56
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (12) (49)
Utilised (4) (3)
At 31 December 165 152
25 Cash and cash equivalents
2012 2011
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,465 841
Short-term deposits 2,719 4,873
4,184 5,714
26 Assets held for sale
2012 2011
£m £m
Land and buildings 10 35
Plant, equipment and vehicles 9 48
Assets in construction – 4
Intangible assets 45 546
Inventory – 32
64 665
Non-current assets are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be recovered principally
through disposal and a sale is considered likely. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The decrease in assets held for sale primarily results from the divestment of certain non-core Consumer Healthcare OTC products and the
transfer of retained assets related to alli out of assets held for sale.
The disposal of the OTC brands was completed during 2012 for gross proceeds of £950 million. The profit on the disposal was £559 million
before tax.172 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
27 Trade and other payables
2012 2011
£m £m
Trade payables 2,666 2,568
Wages and salaries 915 974
Social security 112 112
Other payables 881 304
Deferred income 162 38
Customer return and rebate accruals 1,640 1,669
Other accruals 1,678 1,694
8,054 7,359
Other payables include £585 million (2011 – £nil) in respect of the maximum potential amount payable to non-controlling shareholders
in GSK Consumer Healthcare Ltd, the Group’s consumer healthcare subsidiary in India, under a voluntary open offer to purchase additional
shares announced in November 2012. The purchase was completed in February 2013 and is discussed in Note 40, ‘Post balance sheet
events’.
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable to customers, principally in the USA. Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on
claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome
and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is
reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns made and
any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect
the future results of the Group.
Trade and other payables include £19 million (2011 – £16 million) due to associates and joint ventures.
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2012 2011 2010
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes (294) 52 158
US pension schemes 58 61 115
Other overseas pensions schemes 133 132 125
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 106 96 156
3 341 554
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes (161) 173 325
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 14 26 28
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 106 96 156
Defined benefit schemes (41) 295 509
Defined contribution pension schemes 44 46 45
3 341 554
The reduction in the UK pension scheme cost in 2012 relates to the one-off adjustments arising from the capping of future pensionable
salary increases and a change in the basis of future discretionary pension increases from RPI to CPI in certain legacy plans. For further details
see page 173.
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Cost of sales (33) 93 117
Selling, general and administration 64 159 254
Research and development (72) 43 138
(41) 295 509
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by
state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions
paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable
remuneration and length of service. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.GSK Annual Report 2012 173
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain
countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent, actuarial
valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from AA
rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond yields are
used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. The expected rate of return on bonds reflects the
portfolio mix of index-linked, government and corporate bonds. The expected rate of return on equities represents the Group’s long term
view and includes a higher risk premium over bonds than in the past reflecting current low bond yields. Projected inflation rate and
pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK,
mortality rates are determined by adjusting the SAPS standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These rates are then
projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the CMI projections with a long term rate of improvement of 1% per year
for both males and females. In the USA, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2000 fully generational table, projected using scale AA,
with the white collar adjustment.
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2032 for an individual then at the age
of 60 is as follows:
UK USA
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.4 29.6 24.8 26.4
Projected for 2032 29.0 31.2 26.7 27.5
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a general
fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments
are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The Group reviewed the investment strategy of the UK
plans in 2011 and the asset allocation for the UK plans has been adjusted to approximately 55% return seeking assets and 45% liability
matching assets. The target asset allocation of the US plans is currently 50% return seeking assets and 50% liability matching assets.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to
join a defined contribution scheme. In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were merged
during 2001. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the USA.
During 2012, the Group changed its policy towards granting discretionary pension increases in the Smithkline Beecham defined benefit schemes.
As a result of the change, discretionary pension increases for pensions accruing prior to 1997 will be based on increases in the Consumer Price
Index instead of the Retail Price Index. This change will also apply to revaluation of some of the deferred pensions of certain scheme participants
who left service prior to 1991.
In the year, the Group has also introduced a limit for all UK defined benefit schemes of 2% per year on the rate at which pensionable pay
may increase. The consequence of this is that those benefits which are related to final pensionable pay are now expected to be lower than
was previously the case.
The combined impact of these two changes in 2012 is a credit to the income statement of £395 million and a similar reduction in the
pension obligation.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK USA Rest of World
2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.00 4.00 4.50 4.00 4.00 4.50 3.00 2.90 3.50
Discount rate 4.40 4.80 5.50 3.80 4.40 5.20 3.30 4.20 4.50
Expected pension increases 3.00 3.00 3.50 n/a n/a n/a 1.90 1.90 2.20
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 3.35 3.75 4.20 1.30 1.20 1.30
Inflation rate 3.00 3.00 3.50 2.25 2.25 2.25 1.70 1.60 1.70174 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December 2012 in
relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2012 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 130 66 75 271 36
Past service (credit)/cost (395) – – (395) 4
Expected return on pension scheme assets (445) (131) (51) (627) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 412 123 65 600 66
Settlements and curtailments 4 – – 4 –
(294) 58 89 (147) 106
Actuarial (losses)/gains recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (448) 14 (228) (662) (119)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2011 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 123 64 75 262 31
Past service credit (48) (1) – (49) (1)
Expected return on pension scheme assets (465) (136) (52) (653) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 437 134 64 635 71
Settlements and curtailments 5 – (1) 4 (5)
52 61 86 199 96
Actuarial losses recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (637) (97) (102) (836) (133)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
2010
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 130 68 70 268 31
Past service cost – – – – 5
Expected return on pension scheme assets (427) (134) (51) (612) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 425 151 64 640 73
Settlements and curtailments 30 30 (3) 57 47
158 115 80 353 156
Actuarial gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 73 43 (37) 79 (80)
The past service credit of £395 million in 2012 reflects the adjustments related to the capping of future pensionable salary increases and
a change in the basis of future discretionary pension increases from RPI to CPI in certain legacy plans. For further details see page 173.
The amounts included within settlements and curtailments include £4 million (2011 – £5 million; 2010 – £110 million) of augmentation
costs arising from major restructuring programmes (see Note 29 ‘Other provisions’).
The total actuarial losses recorded in the statement of comprehensive income since 1 January 2003 amount to £3,798 million.GSK Annual Report 2012 175
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set out in the
table below:
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 124 20 23
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (1,437) (1,496) (1,247)
Post-retirement benefits (1,668) (1,595) (1,425)
(3,105) (3,091) (2,672)
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other
defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31 December 2012 of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 5,270 7.75 1,018 7.20 276 6,564
Property 7.00 265 6.75 116 6.50 5 386
Bonds 3.40 3,493 3.75 1,013 2.60 676 5,182
Other assets 3.60 953 0.25 374 3.20 420 1,747
Fair value of assets 9,981 2,521 1,377 13,879
Present value of scheme obligations (10,298) (2,979) (1,914) (15,191)
(317) (458) (537) (1,312)
Unrecognised past service cost – (1) – (1)
Recognised on the balance sheet (317) (459) (537) (1,313)
Included in other non-current assets 103 – 21 124
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (420) (459) (558) (1,437)
(317) (459) (537) (1,313)
Actual return on plan assets 665 308 116 1,089
In December 2010, the UK scheme purchased an insurance contract that will guarantee payment of specified pensioner liabilities.
This is included within ‘Other assets’ and the ‘Present value of scheme obligations’ in the table above at a value of £751 million
(2011 – £735 million).
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31 December 2011 of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,349 8.25 907 7.30 254 5,510
Property 7.00 274 7.25 163 7.00 6 443
Bonds 3.40 3,354 4.00 1,224 3.00 673 5,251
Other assets 3.35 1,142 0.25 161 3.30 351 1,654
Fair value of assets 9,119 2,455 1,284 12,858
Present value of scheme obligations (9,779) (2,945) (1,610) (14,334)
(660) (490) (326) (1,476)
Unrecognised past service cost – (1) 1 –
Recognised on the balance sheet (660) (491) (325) (1,476)
Included in other non-current assets – – 20 20
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (660) (491) (345) (1,496)
(660) (491) (325) (1,476)
Actual return on plan assets 285 188 20 493176 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
At 31 December 2010
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,698 8.25 1,092 7.40 251 6,041
Property 7.00 272 7.25 147 7.00 6 425
Bonds 4.50 2,460 4.75 1,012 3.10 572 4,044
Other assets 3.50 1,188 0.25 59 3.80 399 1,646
Fair value of assets 8,618 2,310 1,228 12,156
Present value of scheme obligations (9,119) (2,781) (1,479) (13,379)
(501) (471) (251) (1,223)
Unrecognised past service cost – (2) 1 (1)
Recognised on the balance sheet (501) (473) (250) (1,224)
Included in other non-current assets – – 23 23
Included in pensions and other post-employment
benefits (501) (473) (273) (1,247)
(501) (473) (250) (1,224)
Actual return on plan assets 881 240 43 1,164
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2010 7,499 2,072 1,123 10,694 –
Exchange adjustments – 66 26 92 –
Expected return on assets 427 134 51 612 –
Actuarial gains 454 106 (8) 552 –
Employer contributions 531 175 108 814 60
Scheme participants’ contributions 20 – 8 28 13
Benefits paid (313) (243) (80) (636) (73)
Assets at 31 December 2010 8,618 2,310 1,228 12,156 –
Exchange adjustments – 18 (10) 8 –
Expected return on assets 465 136 52 653 –
Actuarial (losses)/gains (180) 52 (32) (160) –
Employer contributions 530 146 108 784 70
Scheme participants’ contributions 7 – 9 16 12
Benefits paid (321) (207) (71) (599) (82)
Assets at 31 December 2011 9,119 2,455 1,284 12,858 –
Exchange adjustments – (125) (54) (179) –
Expected return on assets 445 131 51 627 –
Actuarial (losses)/gains 220 177 65 462 –
Employer contributions 497 52 86 635 76
Scheme participants’ contributions 33 – 9 42 15
Benefits paid (333) (169) (58) (560) (91)
Settlements and curtailments – – (6) (6) –
Assets at 31 December 2012 9,981 2,521 1,377 13,879 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £1,112 million at 31 December 2012
(2011 – £957 million; 2010 – £961 million).
During 2012, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £366 million (2011 – £368 million;
2010 – £365 million) and £32 million (2011 – £82 million; 2010 – £91 million) to the US scheme. In 2009, GSK reached an agreement with
the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December
2008 actuarial funding valuation. Based on the funding agreement following the 2008 valuation, the additional contributions are expected
to be £368 million in 2013. The contributions are based on a discount rate of 5.25% and an inflation assumption of 2.8%. The next
review of contribution levels is in progress and will be based on the actuarial valuation at 31 December 2011.
Employer contributions for 2013, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £660 million in respect of
defined benefit pension schemes and £70 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.GSK Annual Report 2012 177
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in defined benefit obligations UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2010 (8,446) (2,628) (1,364) (12,438) (1,253)
Exchange adjustments – (84) (27) (111) (38)
Service cost (130) (68) (70) (268) (31)
Interest cost (425) (151) (64) (640) (73)
Settlements and curtailments (30) (30) 3 (57) (44)
Actuarial losses (381) (63) (29) (473) (80)
Scheme participants’ contributions (20) – (8) (28) (13)
Benefits paid 313 243 80 636 73
Obligations at 31 December 2010 (9,119) (2,781) (1,479) (13,379) (1,459)
Exchange adjustments – (24) 15 (9) (10)
Service cost (123) (64) (75) (262) (31)
Past service cost 48 – – 48 13
Interest cost (437) (134) (64) (635) (71)
Settlements and curtailments (5) – 1 (4) 5
Actuarial losses (457) (149) (70) (676) (133)
Scheme participants’ contributions (7) – (9) (16) (12)
Benefits paid 321 207 71 599 82
Obligations at 31 December 2011 (9,779) (2,945) (1,610) (14,334) (1,616)
Exchange adjustments – 149 74 223 78
Service cost (130) (66) (75) (271) (36)
Past service cost 395 – – 395 (2)
Interest cost (412) (123) (65) (600) (66)
Settlements and curtailments (4) – 6 2 –
Actuarial losses (668) (163) (293) (1,124) (119)
Scheme participants’ contributions (33) – (9) (42) (15)
Benefits paid 333 169 58 560 91
Obligations at 31 December 2012 (10,298) (2,979) (1,914) (15,191) (1,685)
Unrecognised past service cost – (1) – (1) 17
Recognised on the balance sheet at 31 December 2012 (10,298) (2,980) (1,914) (15,192) (1,668)
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with obligations totalling £1,112 million at 31 December 2012
(2011 – £957 million; 2010 – £961 million).
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme,
together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 7% (2011 – 7.5%), grading down to 5.0% in 2017 and thereafter. During
2009, both the US pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were amended. The changes resulted in a one-off gain of £37 million
recognised in the income statement. At 31 December 2012 the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £1,504 million
(2011 – £1,446 million; 2010 – £1,288 million). However, in accordance with IAS 19 the unvested part of a benefit improvement is not
recognised immediately on the balance sheet but is recognised gradually through the income statement. At 31 December 2012, for the
Group, the unrecognised past service cost of £17 million (2011 – £21 million; 2010 – £34 million) primarily relates to the effect of the
change in the US post-retirement healthcare scheme, which amounted to £25 million (2011 – £31 million; 2010 – £36 million).
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Funded (14,789) (13,956) (13,033)
Unfunded (402) (378) (346)
(15,191) (14,334) (13,379)
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.178 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History of experience gains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2012
Experience gains of scheme assets 220 177 65 462
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2012 2% 7% 5% 3%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (30) (29) (26) (85) 12
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2012 – 1% 1% 1% 1%
Fair value of assets 9,981 2,521 1,377 13,879 –
Present value of scheme obligations (10,298) (2,979) (1,914) (15,191) (1,685)
Deficits in the schemes (317) (458) (537) (1,312) (1,685)
2011
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme assets (180) 52 (32) (160)
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2011 2% 2% 2% 1%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (66) (3) (21) (90) 5
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2011 1% – 1% 1% –
Fair value of assets 9,119 2,455 1,284 12,858 –
Present value of scheme obligations (9,779) (2,945) (1,610) (14,334) (1,616)
Deficits in the schemes (660) (490) (326) (1,476) (1,616)
2010
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme assets 454 106 (8) 552
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2010 5% 5% 1% 5%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (45) 5 (3) (43) (14)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2010 – – – – 1%
Fair value of assets 8,618 2,310 1,228 12,156 –
Present value of scheme obligations (9,119) (2,781) (1,479) (13,379) (1,459)
Deficits in the schemes (501) (471) (251) (1,223) (1,459)
2009
Experience gains of scheme assets 729 122 19 870
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2009 10% 6% 2% 8%
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities 162 (27) (15) 120 6
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2009 2% 1% 1% 1% –
Fair value of assets 7,499 2,072 1,123 10,694 –
Present value of scheme obligations (8,446) (2,628) (1,364) (12,438) (1,253)
Deficits in the schemes (947) (556) (241) (1,744) (1,253)
2008
Experience losses of scheme assets (1,691) (614) (134) (2,439)
Percentage of scheme assets at 31 December 2008 28% 30% 12% 26%
Experience (losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (148) 2 1 (145) (14)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31 December 2008 2% – – 1% 1%
Fair value of assets 6,135 2,016 1,137 9,288 –
Present value of scheme obligations (6,885) (2,738) (1,357) (10,980) (1,354)
Deficits in the schemes (750) (722) (220) (1,692) (1,354)GSK Annual Report 2012 179
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2013 annual defined benefit pension and post retirement costs
after the revisions to IAS 19.
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 27
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost (1)
Increase in pension obligation 555
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 52
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 18
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 3
Increase in pension obligation 362
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 50
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost –
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 18
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 18
Increase in pension obligation 334
29 Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 2,772 404 232 226 3,634
Exchange adjustments (54) (10) (7) (10) (81)
Charge for the year 449 150 16 52 667
Reversed unused (13) (12) (2) (8) (35)
Unwinding of discount 4 5 – 6 15
Utilised (2,610) (274) (12) (43) (2,939)
Acquisition of subsidiary – 118 – – 118
Reclassifications and other movements (21) (4) – 42 17
Transfer to pension obligations – (4) – – (4)
At 31 December 2012 527 373 227 265 1,392
To be settled within one year 358 220 10 105 693
To be settled after one year 169 153 217 160 699
At 31 December 2012 527 373 227 265 1,392180 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
29 Other provisions continued
Legal and other disputes
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in Note 44
‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other disputes include amounts relating to product liability (principally relating to Avandia,
Paxil and Poligrip), anti-trust (principally relating to Wellbutrin, Flonase and Lamictal), government investigations (principally relating to
the ‘Colorado investigation’ settlement, Avandia-related investigations, AWP and nominal price investigations and the Cidra, Puerto Rico
manufacturing settlement), contract terminations, self-insurance, environmental clean-up and property rental.
The charge for the year of £449 million (£435 million net of reversals and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to provisions
for product liability cases regarding Paxil, Poligrip and other products and various government investigations. Various Federal government
investigations were resolved in the year within the existing pre-tax provision and the after tax cost was approximately $150 million lower
than provided. As a result, a tax credit was recorded in the year. However, due to the evolving state litigation environment, GSK utilised
the tax benefit arising in recording an offsetting additional pre-tax provision of approximately $180 million (equating to an after tax cost
of $150 million) related to these matters. This was recorded as a legal charge in SG&A. The net effect of these movements on total
earnings was neutral.
The discount on the provisions decreased by £3 million in 2012 (2011 – £12 million) and was calculated using risk-adjusted projected cash
flows and risk-free rates of return. The movement in 2012 includes a decrease of £1 million (2011 – £5 million) arising from a change in
the discount rate in the year.
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may
vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement
negotiations.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over many years.
Litigation proceedings, including the various appeal procedures, often take many years to reach resolution, and out-of-court settlement
discussions can also often be protracted. The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of the disputes for which amounts
have been provided and, based on its current assessment of the progress of these disputes, estimates that £0.4 billion of the amount
provided at 31 December 2012 will be settled within one year.
At 31 December 2012, it was expected that £3 million (2011 – £29 million) of the provision made for legal and other disputes will be
reimbursed by third party insurers. This amount is included within the Other receivables balances in Note 22, ‘Other non-current assets’
and Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’. For a discussion of legal issues, see Note 44 ‘Legal proceedings’.
Major restructuring programmes
In October 2007 the Group announced a significant new Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and productivity
of its operations (see Note 10 ‘Major restructuring costs’). Following several expansions, the estimated total costs are expected to be
approximately £4.85 billion and the expanded programme is expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of approximately £2.8 billion by
the time it is substantially complete in 2014.
Provisions for staff severance payments are made when management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain positions and this has
been communicated to the groups of employees affected. No provision is made for staff severance payments that are made immediately.
Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of £4 million (2011 – £5 million) have been charged during the year and then
transferred to the pension obligations provision as shown in Note 28 ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’. Asset write-downs
have been recognised as impairments of property, plant and equipment in Note 17 ‘Property, plant and equipment’. The majority of the
amounts provided are expected to be utilised in the next two years.
Employee related provisions
Employee related provisions include certain medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in the USA. At 31 December 2012,
the provision for these benefits amounted to £113 million (2011 – £121 million). Other employee benefits reflect a variety of provisions for
severance costs, jubilee awards and other long-service benefits.
Other provisions
Included in other provisions is contingent consideration in respect of business acquisitions, principally of Stiefel Laboratories Inc. in 2009.
The contingent consideration is payable upon certain criteria being met by certain specified dates in the future. The aggregate provision for
these items amounts to £43 million at 31 December 2012 (2011 – £42 million).GSK Annual Report 2012 181
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
30 Other non-current liabilities
2012 2011
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 73 128
Other payables 1,359 498
1,432 626
The increase in other payables primarily arises from contingent consideration of £670 million (2011 – £nil) relating to the acquisition of the
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture.
31 Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2012, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of
business, amounted to £209 million (2011 – £205 million). At 31 December 2012, £nil (2011 – £1 million) of financial assets were pledged
as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the
Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable estimate of that outflow. At 31 December 2012, other than for
those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might
be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote. Descriptions of the significant tax,
legal and other disputes to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and Note 44, ‘Legal proceedings’.
32 Net debt
2012 2011
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 81 184
Cash and cash equivalents 4,184 5,714
4,265 5,898
Short-term borrowings:
Bank loans and overdrafts (323) (165)
Commercial paper (1,748) –
Obligations under finance leases (27) (34)
3.00% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange – (626)
5.125% € European Medium Term Note 2012 London Stock Exchange – (1,873)
4.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2013 New York Stock Exchange (1,533) –
(3,631) (2,698)
Long-term borrowings:
4.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2013 New York Stock Exchange – (1,611)
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 London Stock Exchange (970) (1,046)
0.75% US$ US Medium Term Note 2015 New York Stock Exchange (611) –
3.875% € European Medium Term Note 2015 London Stock Exchange (1,296) (1,326)
1.50% US$ US Medium Term Note 2017 New York Stock Exchange (1,219) –
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange (1,013) (1,037)
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange (1,683) (1,768)
2.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,214) –
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (602) (616)
3.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (590) –
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (982) (981)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (305) (320)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (1,670) (1,756)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (694) (694)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (986) (986)
4.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (787) –
Bank loans – (1)
Obligations under finance leases (49) (61)
(14,671) (12,203)
Net debt (14,037) (9,003)182 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
32 Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At 31 December 2012, they included US Treasury Notes and other
government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31 December 2012 was approximately 2.6% (2011 – approximately
1.0%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2012 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £74 million and £7 million
respectively (2011 – £1 million and £183 million).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2012 was approximately 1.7% (2011 – approximately 1.3%). Cash
and cash equivalents balances at 31 December 2012 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £3,876 million and £1 million
respectively (2011 – £5,466 million and £21 million).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is referred to in Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a US $10 billion (£6.1 billion) commercial paper programme (2011 – $10 billion (£6.5 billion)), of which $2.9 billion (£1.7 billion)
was in issue at 31 December 2012. We also have £1.9 billion of five year committed medium-term facilities and $2.5 billion (£1.5 billion)
of 364 day committed facilities. These facilities were put in place in September 2012 and at 31 December 2012 were undrawn. Liquid
investments, cash and cash equivalents were as shown in the table on page 181.
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2012 was 2.1% (2011 – 5.5%).
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £14.7 billion (2011 – £12.2 billion) of which £9.5 billion (2011 – £8.2 billion) falls due in
more than five years. The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2012 was approximately 4.9%
(2011 – approximately 5.2%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 2.99% and 6.57%. The repayment dates range
from 2018 to 2045.
Pledged assets
The Group has pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $119 million (£74 million) (2011 – $119 million (£77 million))
as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance activity. Provisions in
respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. At
31 December 2012, £66 million of the Group’s cash balance was held in an escrow account in connection with the Group’s offer to
purchase shares in GSK Consumer Healthcare Ltd, the Group’s consumer healthcare subsidiary in India, from non-controlling shareholders.
In addition, £49 million of assets included in Note 22, ‘Other non-current assets’, which do not form part of Net debt, were pledged as
collateral against future rental payments under operating lease arrangements entered into by Human Genome Sciences, Inc. which was
acquired during the year.
2012 2011
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 30 37
Rental payments due between one and two years 21 27
Rental payments due between two and three years 17 18
Rental payments due between three and four years 9 12
Rental payments due between four and five years 2 4
Rental payments due after five years 6 8
Total future rental payments 85 106
Future finance charges (9) (11)
Total finance lease obligations 76 95
Finance lease obligations at 31 December 2012 bearing interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £55 million and £21 million,
respectively (2011 – £67 million and £28 million).GSK Annual Report 2012 183
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
33 Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2010 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2011 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2012 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2010 5,665,128,719 1,416 1,368
Issued under employee share schemes 5,329,458 2 60
At 31 December 2010 5,670,458,177 1,418 1,428
Issued under employee share schemes 21,949,144 5 245
Share capital cancelled (142,204,223) (36) –
At 31 December 2011 5,550,203,098 1,387 1,673
Issued under employee share schemes 28,045,821 7 349
Share capital cancelled (180,652,950) (45) –
At 31 December 2012 5,397,595,969 1,349 2,022
31 December 2012 31 December 2011
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes (Note 42) 114,985 126,810
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,487,419 4,322,987
At 31 December 2012, of the issued share capital, 75,205,594 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 494,951,327 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,827,439,048 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of
the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
A total of 174 million shares were purchased by the company during 2012 at a cost of £2,493 million and 181 million shares were
cancelled.
Monthly purchases of shares during 2012 were as follows:
Average share price excluding
Number of shares commission and stamp duty
000 £
February 7,410,000 14.10
March 8,475,000 14.17
April 2,150,000 14.26
May 33,265,000 14.18
June 25,850,000 14.51
July 5,400,000 14.46
August 19,301,000 14.66
September 29,606,500 14.29
October 17,175,000 14.22
November 19,583,175 13.56
December 6,230,675 13.55
Total 174,446,350 14.22
The company expects to make further share repurchases of £1–2 billion during 2013. The exact amount and timing of further purchases
and whether the shares will be held as Treasury shares or be cancelled will be determined by the company and is dependent on market
conditions and other factors. No shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2013 to 28 February 2013.
For details of substantial shareholdings refer to page 239.184 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
34 Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £2,439 million at 31 December 2012 (2011 – £4,972 million; 2010 – £6,041 million)
of which £372 million (2011 – £421 million; 2010 – £472 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative
translation exchange in equity is shown below in the following table:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 1,166 11 (45) 1,132
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 145 – 21 166
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary (2) – – (2)
At 31 December 2010 1,309 11 (24) 1,296
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (259) 4 (44) (299)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary (1) – – (1)
At 31 December 2011 1,049 15 (68) 996
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (204) (23) (30) (257)
At 31 December 2012 845 (8) (98) 739
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
2012 earnings reserves interests Total
£m £m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (204) (23) (30) (257)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 77 – 77
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (10) – (10)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (19) – (19)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 10 – 10
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 2 – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (6) – (6)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (781) – – (781)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 221 – – 221
Share of other comprehensive expense of associates and joint ventures 30 – – 30
Other comprehensive expense for the year (734) 31 (30) (733)
Non-
Retained Other controlling
2011 earnings reserves interests Total
£m £m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (259) 4 (44) (299)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (1) – – (1)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (20) – (20)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 23 – 23
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (29) – (29)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1 – 1
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (969) – – (969)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 268 – – 268
Share of other comprehensive expense of associates and joint ventures (8) – – (8)
Other comprehensive expense for the year (969) (21) (44) (1,034)GSK Annual Report 2012 185
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
34 Movements in equity continued
Non-
Retained Other controlling
2010 earnings reserves interests Total
£m £m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 145 – 21 166
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (2) – – (2)
Tax on exchange movements – 94 – 94
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (25) – (25)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 1 – 1
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – (3) – (3)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (8) – (8)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 1 – 1
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 3 – 3
Fair value movement on subsidiary acquisition – 6 – 6
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans – – (1) (1)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 1 – – 1
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 144 69 20 233
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2010 (1,138) 22 (6) 2,022 900
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (5) 3 – (2)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – 5 – – 5
Net fair value movement in the year – 67 (1) – 66
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (16) – – – (16)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 17 – – – 17
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 292 – – – 292
At 31 December 2010 (845) 89 (4) 2,022 1,262
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (10) 3 – (7)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (19) – – (19)
Net fair value movement in the year – 10 (5) – 5
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 36 36
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (36) – – – (36)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 44 – – – 44
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 345 – – – 345
Forward contract on non-controlling interest – – – (28) (28)
At 31 December 2011 (492) 70 (6) 2,030 1,602
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (18) 2 – (16)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (1) – – (1)
Net fair value movement in the year – 54 (6) – 48
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 45 45
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (37) – – – (37)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 58 – – – 58
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 80 – – – 80
Forward contract on non-controlling interest – – – 8 8
At 31 December 2012 (391) 105 (10) 2,083 1,787
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2012
(2011 – £1,849 million; 2010 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the
share buy-back programme amounting to £256 million at 31 December 2012 (2011 – £211 million; 2010 – £175 million).186 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
35 Related party transactions
GSK held a 19% interest in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited at 31 December 2012 (2011 – 19%).
During 2012, GSK distributed £68 million (2011 – £95 million) of its products through Aspen’s extensive distribution network. At
31 December 2012, the balance due to GSK from Aspen was £12 million (2011 – £16 million) and the balance payable by GSK to Aspen
was £3 million (2011 – £11 million). In 2012, GSK also disposed of the majority of its ‘Classic Brands’ business in Australia to Aspen for
£164 million in cash.
In October 2012, GSK acquired the 50% shareholding in the Shionogi – ViiV Healthcare joint venture from Shionogi & Co. Ltd in return for
a 10% minority shareholding in ViiV Healthcare Company. This was accounted for as a business acquisition and intangible assets and other
net liabilities of £1,777 million and £1,051 million, respectively were recognised. A gain of £225 million arising primarily from the fair value
of GSK’s existing shareholding was recorded in the income statement, together with negative goodwill of £124 million.
At 31 December 2012, GSK held a 50% interest in ViiV Healthcare Shire Canada, through its subsidiary ViiV Healthcare ULC, which
primarily co-markets Combivir, Trizivir and Epivir in certain territories. At 31 December 2012, the balance payable to ViiV Healthcare Shire
Canada was £4 million (2011 – £5 million).
At 31 December 2012, GSK held a 50% interest in Japan Vaccine Co. Ltd (JVC) through its subsidiary GlaxoSmithKline K.K. This joint
venture with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd is primarily responsible for the development and marketing of certain prophylactic vaccines in Japan.
During 2012, GSK sold £48 million of its vaccine products into the joint venture. At 31 December 2012, the balance due to GSK from JVC
was £19 million and the balance payable by GSK to JVC was £12 million.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’.
36 Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 4,744 5,458 1,853
Tax on profits 1,948 2,240 1,304
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (29) (15) (81)
Finance income net of finance expense 729 709 715
Depreciation 871 893 1,146
Amortisation of intangible assets 574 530 533
Impairment and assets written off 654 346 411
Profit on sale of intangible assets (652) (236) (118)
Profit on sale of investments in associates – (585) (8)
Profit on sale of equity investments (16) (10) (17)
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 37 (157) 238
Decrease in trade receivables 183 192 905
(Increase)/decrease in other receivables (27) (69) 6
Increase in trade payables 177 442 154
Increase/(decrease) in other payables 132 2 (179)
(Decrease)/increase in pension and other provisions (2,931) (2,181) 1,653
Share-based incentive plans 220 198 179
Fair value adjustments (575) (10) 6
Other 9 (34) (69)
1,304 2,255 6,778
Cash generated from operations 6,048 7,713 8,631
The decrease in pension and other provisions primarily reflects legal settlements of £2.6 billion and further special contributions to the
defined benefit pension schemes.GSK Annual Report 2012 187
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2012 2011 2010
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (9,003) (8,859) (9,444)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (1,607) (94) (642)
Cash inflow from liquid investments (224) (30) (91)
Net increase in long-term loans (4,430) – –
Net repayment of/(increase in) of short-term loans 816 (37) 1,290
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 35 38 45
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired (3) (10) (20)
Exchange adjustments 385 (10) 61
Other non-cash movements (6) (1) (58)
Movement in net debt (5,034) (144) 585
Net debt at end of year (14,037) (9,003) (8,859)
Analysis of changes in net debt At 31.12.11 Exchange Other Reclassifications Acquisitions Cash flow At 31.12.12
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 184 (8) 129 (224) 81
Cash and cash equivalents 5,714 (98) – – – (1,432) 4,184
Overdrafts (109) 6 – – – (175) (278)
5,605 (92) – – – (1,607) 3,906
Debt due within one year:
Commerical paper – – – – – (1,748) (1,748)
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes (2,498) 110 (2) (1,570) – 2,427 (1,533)
Other (91) 6 (2) (20) (132) 167 (72)
(2,589) 116 (4) (1,590) (132) 846 (3,353)
Debt due after one year:
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes (12,142) 367 13 1,570 – (4,430) (14,622)
Other (61) 2 (15) 20 – 5 (49)
(12,203) 369 (2) 1,590 – (4,425) (14,671)
Net debt (9,003) 385 (6) – (3) (5,410) (14,037)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 32 ‘Net debt’.188 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2012
Acquisitions
Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
On 3 August 2012, GSK completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (HGS), a US based
biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of protein and anti-body drugs for the treatment of immuno-inflammation
diseases, for cash. The total consideration was £2,515 million and represented £251 million of cash acquired, £1,249 million of intangible
assets, £791 million of goodwill and £224 million of other net assets. The consideration comprised cash of £2,282 million and a gain of
£233 million arising on the settlement of pre-existing collaborations. The gain was recognised within Other operating income in the income
statement. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of this business reflects the potential business synergies and realisation of the full value of
Benlysta, albiglutide, darapladib and other assets by simplifying and optimising R&D, commercial and manufacturing operations through
complete ownership of the assets. The goodwill recognised is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquired business are reported as part of the US, Europe, EMAP, Japan and Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines operating
segments. The transaction has been accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
The pro-forma turnover for the HGS business for the full year 2012 was £154 million. Since the acquisition, GSK recorded turnover of
£69 million from HGS products. As the HGS products have been fully integrated into the GSK business, it is not practicable to separately
identify the impact of the acquisition on the Group profit for the year.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2012 arising on this acquisition amounted to £28 million.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 1,249 1,249
Property, plant and equipment 21 10 31
Trade and other receivables 33 – 33
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 431 83 514
Deferred tax asset – 156 156
Trade and other liabilities (86) (173) (259)
399 1,325 1,724
Goodwill 791 791
399 2,116 2,515
Cash consideration 2,282
Gain on settlement of pre-existing collaborations 233
Total consideration 2,515
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
On 29 October 2012, GSK acquired the 50% share of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture previously held by Shionogi & Co, Ltd.
The assets acquired include the investigational medicine dolutegravir and early stage integrase inhibitor compounds. The compounds are
in development and do not currently generate revenue.
The net assets acquired comprise £1,777 million of intangible assets and £628 million of deferred tax liability. Negative goodwill of
£124 million, arising from the differing assessments of valuations between the parties, was recognised as a gain within Other operating
income in the income statement.
Total consideration comprised a 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare valued at £377 million, the fair value of GSK’s existing 50% investment
in the joint venture of £256 million and contingent consideration payable in cash in the future valued at £659 million, together with a
deferred tax asset of £236 million and a loss on settlement of pre-existing relationships of £31 million.
The contingent consideration is payable based on a percentage of the future sales performance of compounds developed by the joint
venture, if they become marketed products, and so the total amount payable is unlimited.
The results of the acquired business are reported as part of ViiV Healthcare. The transaction has been accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2012 arising on this acquisition amounted to £2 million.GSK Annual Report 2012 189
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 1,777 1,777
Deferred tax provision – (628) (628)
– 1,149 1,149
Negative goodwill – (124) (124)
– 1,025 1,025
Consideration settled by shares in ViiV Healthcare 377
Contingent consideration 659
Deferred tax on contingent consideration (236)
Fair value of investment in joint venture converted into subsidiary 256
Loss on settlement of pre-existing relationships (31)
Total consideration 1,025
Other acquisitions
During the year, GSK completed two smaller acquisitions for cash. The total purchase price of £206 million included £2 million of cash
acquired.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 232 232
Property, plant and equipment 2 – 2
Trade and other receivables 2 – 2
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 2 – 2
Deferred tax provision – (14) (14)
Trade and other liabilities (8) (4) (4)
(2) 222 220
Goodwill – 82 82
(2) 304 302
Cash consideration 206
Contingent consideration 37
Fair value of equity investment converted into subsidiary 23
Gain on settlement of pre-existing relationships 36
Total consideration 302
If the other acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by
£27 million for the year. As some of the acquisitions have been fully integrated into the GSK business it is not practicable to separately
identify the impact of the acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects the potential for business synergies and further sales growth through the increase in GSK’s
market presence following the acquisitions of these market participants. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for
income tax purposes.
The results of the acquisitions are reported as part of the Europe Pharma and Research & Development reportable operating segments.
The Group recognised a settlement gain of £36 million as a result of measuring at fair value relationships that had existed prior to the
acquisition date. The gain is recognised in Other operating income on the income statement.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2012 arising on other acquisitions totalled £9 million.
Contingent consideration 2012 2011
£m £m
At 1 January 78 204
Exchange adjustments 1 (1)
Additions 696 –
Remeasurement through goodwill (91) (1)
Remeasurement through income statement 13 –
Settlement – (124)
At 31 December 697 78190 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures
GSK made cash contributions of £39 million into the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture prior to its acquisition as a subsidiary and made
cash investments of £19 million into a new joint venture in which the Group holds a share of 50%. GSK also made cash investments of
£41 million into associates, increasing the share in one associate from 27% to 30%.
Human Shionogi- Associates
Genome ViiV joint Other and joint
Cash flows Sciences venture acquisitions ventures Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 2,282 – 206 99 2,587
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (251) – (2) – (253)
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 2,031 – 204 99 2,334
Total cash consideration payable 2,031 659 241 99 3,030
Contingent consideration – (659) (37) – (696)
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 2,031 – 204 99 2,334
2011
Acquisitions
During the year GSK completed four subsidiary acquisitions for cash. The total purchase price of £299 million included £16 million of cash
acquired.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 6 122 128
Property, plant and equipment 52 (1) 51
Trade and other receivables 16 – 16
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 23 1 24
Deferred tax provision – (31) (31)
Other liabilities (32) (1) (33)
65 90 155
Goodwill – 168 168
65 258 323
Cash consideration 299
Fair value of investment in joint venture converted into subsidiary 24
Total consideration 323
If the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by £75 million for
the year. As some of the subsidiaries have been fully integrated into the GSK business it is not practicable to separately identify the impact of
the acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects the potential for business synergies and further sales growth through the increase in GSK’s
market presence following the acquisitions of these businesses. In addition, goodwill of £10 million was recognised in respect of fair value
adjustments to prior year acquisitions. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquisitions are reported as part of the Consumer Healthcare and the Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
reportable operating segments.
The Group recognised a loss of £1 million as a result of remeasuring to fair value an associate held prior to the acquisition date. This loss is
reported as a loss on disposal of interest in associates in the income statement.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2011 arising on acquisitions totalled £2 million.GSK Annual Report 2012 191
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures
GSK made cash contributions of £33 million in a joint venture in which the Group has a 50% share, made cash investments in associates
totalling £2 million and transferred a £3 million equity investment into associates as the Group has increased its shareholding from 5% to 37%.
Disposals
GSK disposed of one subsidiary. The cash outflow on disposal was £10 million net of cash disposed. On 1 February 2011 GSK disposed of
its entire 18% shareholding in Quest Diagnostics Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The sale
comprised a secondary public offering and an accompanying repurchase of shares by Quest Diagnostics which together generated a profit
on disposal of £584 million before tax.
Associates
Other and joint
Cash flows acquisitions ventures Total
£m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 299 35 334
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (16) – (16)
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 283 35 318
Total cash consideration payable 264 35 299
Deferred consideration 19 – 19
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 283 35 318
Net cash (outflow)/proceeds from disposals, net of cash disposed (10) 1,044 1,034
2010
Acquisitions
Laboratorios Phoenix S.A.C.yF.
On 10 June 2010, GSK acquired 100% of the issued share capital of Laboratorios Phoenix S.A.C.yF., a leading pharmaceutical business
focused on the development, marketing and sale of branded generic and over-the-counter products in Latin America, for cash.
The purchase price of £174 million included £11 million of net cash, £121 million of intangible assets, £72 million of goodwill and
£30 million of other net liabilities. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of this business reflects the potential for business synergies and
further sales growth through the increase in GSK’s market presence following the acquisition of an established market participant. None
of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of Phoenix are reported as part of the Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines operating segment. This transaction has
been accounted for by using the purchase method of accounting.
The pro-forma results of Laboratorios Phoenix S.A C.yF. for the full year are turnover of £60 million and loss after tax (before major
restructuring) of £2 million.
Since acquisition, GSK recorded turnover of £35 million and after tax losses (before major restructuring) of £0.5 million from the business.
Transaction costs expensed in 2010 arising on the acquisition of Laboratorios Phoenix S.A.C.yF. amounted to £3 million.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 121 121
Property, plant and equipment 6 10 16
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 39 7 46
Deferred tax provision (1) (41) (42)
Other liabilities (27) (12) (39)
17 85 102
Goodwill – 72 72
Total cash consideration 17 157 174192 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Other acquisitions
During the year, GSK completed three smaller subsidiary acquisitions for cash. The total purchase price of £198 million included
£1 million of net cash.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 3 128 131
Property, plant and equipment 9 2 11
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 20 12 32
Deferred tax provision – (33) (33)
Other liabilities (10) – (10)
22 109 131
Goodwill – 75 75
22 184 206
Cash consideration 198
Fair value of investment in associate converted to subsidiary 8
Total consideration 206
If the other acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by
£51 million for the year. As some of the subsidiaries have been fully integrated into the GSK business it is not practicable to separately
identify the impact of the acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects the potential for business synergies and further sales growth through the increase in GSK’s
market presence following the acquisition of these established market participants. In addition, goodwill of £13 million was recognised in
respect of further consideration for a prior year acquisition. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax
purposes.
The results of the other acquisitions are reported primarily as part of the Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines reportable
operating segment.
The Group recognised a gain of £8 million as a result of measuring at fair value an associate held prior to the acquisition date. This gain
is reported as Profit on disposal of interest in associates in the income statement.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2010 arising on other acquisitions totalled £7 million.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
GSK made cash and non-cash contributions of £24 million in a joint venture in which the Group has a 50% share, £6 million in a joint
venture in which the Group has a 49% share, an investment in an associate of £32 million to increase the Group’s share to 27% and other
investments in associates totalling £3 million.
Associates
Other and joint
Cash flows Phoenix acquisitions ventures Total
£m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 174 198 61 433
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (11) (1) – (12)
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 163 197 61 421
Total cash consideration payable 163 191 61 415
Deferred consideration – 6 – 6
Cash consideration, net of cash acquired 163 197 61 421GSK Annual Report 2012 193
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
39 Commitments
2012 2011
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 7,780 7,968
Property, plant and equipment 572 504
Investments 72 64
Purchase commitments 762 882
Pensions 368 730
Other commitments 268 190
Interest on loans 10,207 9,491
Finance lease charges 9 11
20,038 19,840
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development or
on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are achieved.
The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. A number of commitments were made in 2012 under licensing and other agreements,
including arrangements with Angiochem, Inc. Five Prime Therapeutics, Inc., and MD Anderson Cancer Centre. These new arrangements
were more than offset by reduced commitments due on prior year transactions including amendments to the agreements with Amicus
Therapeutics, Inc., Astex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Chroma Therapeutics, Inc., Regulus Therapeutics, Inc., and Xenoport, Inc.
In 2009, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension
deficit identified at the 31 December 2008 actuarial funding valuation. The table above includes this commitment, but excludes the normal
ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately £120 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are disclosed below. £343 million (2011 – £62 million) of these commitments are
provided against on the Group’s balance sheet.
2012 2011
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 146 113
Rental payments due between one and two years 98 65
Rental payments due between two and three years 77 46
Rental payments due between three and four years 61 30
Rental payments due between four and five years 54 17
Rental payments due after five years 413 83
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 849 354
40 Post balance sheet event
On 5 February 2013, GSK completed the acquisition of further shares in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ltd in India to take the
Group’s shareholding from 43.2% to 72.5%, at a cost of approximately £570 million.194 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
41 F inancial instruments and related In 2012, net cash inflow from operating activities was £4.4 billion
disclosures (£7.0 billion excluding legal settlements) and free cash flow was
£2.0 billion (£4.7 billion excluding legal settlements).
GSK reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits. In 2013, we expect to deliver continued dividend growth and as part
The role of Corporate Treasury is to monitor and manage our of our long-term share buyback programme we are targeting share
external and internal funding requirements and financial risks in repurchases of £1-2 billion depending on market conditions.
support of our strategic objectives. GSK operates on a global basis,
primarily through subsidiary companies and we manage our capital Liquidity risk
to ensure that our subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
and to optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate
funding requirements. The cash flow forecast and funding
balance of debt and equity. Treasury activities are governed by
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis.
policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors, most
Our strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of
recently on 11 July 2012.
facilities and to maintain broad access to funding markets.
A Treasury Management Group (TMG) meeting, chaired by our
At 31 December 2012, GSK had £4.3 billion of cash, cash
Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a monthly basis to review
equivalents and liquid investments and £3.6 billion of borrowings
treasury activities. Its members receive management information
repayable within one year. GSK also has access to short-term finance
relating to treasury activities. Internal audit reviews the Treasury
under a US$10 billion commercial paper programme and $2.9 billion
internal control environment regularly.
(£1.7 billion) was in issue under this programme at 31 December
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments to finance its operations 2012. GSK has £1.9 billion five year committed medium term
and derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from facilities and $2.5 billion of 364-day committed facilities. These
these operations. These derivatives, principally comprising forward facilities were put in place in September 2012 and at 31 December
foreign currency contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, are were undrawn. We consider this level of committed facilities to be
used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required adequate given current liquidity requirements.
for Group purposes and to manage exposure to financial risks from
We have a European Medium Term Note programme of £15 billion
changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
and at 31 December 2012, £7.0 billion of notes were in issue under
GSK does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes this programme. We also have a US shelf registration statement and
and our Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All at 31 December 2012, we had $15.0 billion (£9.2 billion) of notes in
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the issue under this programme. GSK’s long-term borrowings mature at
risks arising from underlying business activities, not for speculation. dates between 2014 and 2045.
Capital management GSK’s long-term credit ratings have remained unchanged since
February 2008 and currently GSK is rated A+ stable outlook by
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities Standard and Poor’s and A1 stable outlook by Moody’s Investors
and it is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the capital Service (‘Moody’s’). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
equity in order to optimise returns to shareholders whilst
maintaining credit ratings that provide us with flexibility to access Market risk
debt capital markets on attractive terms. Our financial architecture
is designed to drive growth in earnings per share and to generate Interest rate risk management
cash in order to maximise the returns from the Group’s strategy.
GSK’s objective is to reduce the effective net interest cost and to
The free cash flow we generate is then deployed to deliver returns
rebalance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
to shareholders and to be reinvested in the business depending
time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
on where returns are most attractive. We continue to apply strict
of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
financial and returns-based criteria such as cash flow return on
operating profit.
investment in order to allocate capital and assess investment
opportunities. We use a series of interest rate swaps to redenominate one of
our bonds into floating interest rates. The duration of these swaps
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
matches the duration of the principal instrument. These interest
£14.0 billion (see Note 32, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity of
rate derivative instruments are accounted for as fair value hedges
£5.8 billion (see ’Consolidated statement of changes in equity‘ on
of the relevant liability.
page 142). Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling
interests of £0.9 billion, is £20.7 billion.
Net debt increased by £5.0 billion during the year primarily due
to payments of £1.9 billion to settle the Group’s most significant
ongoing US federal government investigations within existing
provisions and the £2.0 billion cash cost of the acquisition of HGS.
The balance, as well as the Group’s strong cash generation and the
proceeds from the disposal of the Consumer Healthcare OTC brands
enabled the financing of share repurchases of £2.5 billion and
increased dividend payments of £3.8 billion.
Despite an increase in net debt of £5.0 billion in 2012, the net
finance expense for the year was broadly similar to 2011, reflecting
the benefits of our strategy to improve the funding profile of the
Group. The target to reduce the average effective net funding cost
by approximately 200 basis points to around 6% in 2013 has been
achieved one year earlier than planned.GSK Annual Report 2012 195
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Foreign exchange risk management
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and external trade flows are not hedged. The exposure of overseas operating
subsidiaries to transaction risk is minimised by matching local currency income with local currency costs. For this purpose, our internal
trading transactions are matched centrally and we manage inter-company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency
cash flows can be hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury and the TMG. Where possible, we manage the cash
surpluses or borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the
originating currency. In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our
principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings can be swapped into
other currencies as required. Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that match investments in overseas Group
assets may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce our exposure to
our investment in overseas Group assets (see ‘Net investment hedges’ section of this note for further details). The TMG reviews the ratio of
borrowings to assets for major currencies monthly.
Credit risk
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December 2012 to be £9,469 million (31 December 2011 – £11,541 million) which is the
total of the Group’s financial assets with the exception of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity investments) which bear equity risk rather
than credit risk. See page 197 for details on the Group’s total financial assets. At 31 December 2012, GSK’s greatest concentration of credit
risk was £1.2 billion of bank deposits with HSBC (Aa3/AA-). In 2011, the greatest concentration of credit risk was £2.0 billion of investments
bearing credit exposure to the US Government (rated Aaa/AA+ with Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s respectively).
Treasury-related credit risk
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking and investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage of these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO)
who operates independently of Corporate Treasury. Any breach of these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately. The CCO also
monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury so that changes can be
made to investment levels or to authority limits as appropriate. In addition, a report on relationship banks and their credit ratings is
presented annually to the TMG for approval and reviewed regularly.
GSK has managed its exposure to credit risk more actively in recent years, reducing surplus cash balances in particular in the USA, Europe,
Middle East and Africa. This is part of our Treasury strategy to regionalise our cash management and to concentrate cash centrally as much
as possible. GSK has continued to maintain its conservative approach to counterparty risk throughout this period. The table below sets out
the credit exposure to counterparties by rating for liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives. The gross asset position on
each derivative contract is considered for the purpose of this table, although, under ISDA agreements, the amount at risk is the net position
with each counterparty.
The £158 million invested in Baa3/BBB- rated investments includes bank deposits with HDFC Bank, State Bank of India, BBVA Venezuela and
China Merchants Bank. These counterparties are used either for local cash management purposes or for local investment purposes where
GSK is not the sole shareholder.
The £5 million invested in Ba2/BB rated counterparties at 31 December 2012 and £17m at 31 December 2011 comprise bank balances held
by operating companies overseas.
Aa1/AA+ Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A A3/A- Baa1/BBB+ Baa2/BBB Baa3/BBB- Ba2/BB Total
2012 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 1,189 825 412 860 7 – 158 5 3,456
US Treasury and Treasury repo
only money market funds 728 – – – – – – – – 728
Corporate debt instruments – 7 – – – – – – – 7
Government securities 74 – – – – – – – – 74
3rd party financial derivatives – 8 37 33 20 – – – – 98
Total 802 1,204 862 445 880 7 – 158 5 4,363
Aa1/AA+ Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A A3/A- Baa1/BBB+ Baa2/BBB Baa3/BBB- Ba2/BB Total
2011 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 812 2,183 720 39 3 5 96 17 3,875
US Treasury and Treasury repo
only money market funds 1,839 – – – – – – – – 1,839
Corporate debt instruments – 9 – – – – – – – 9
Government securities 169 – – – – – – 6 – 175
3rd party financial derivatives – 12 68 34 24 – – – – 138
Total 2,008 833 2,251 754 63 3 5 102 17 6,036
The credit ratings in the above tables are as assigned by Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s respectively. Where the opinion of the two rating
agencies differ, GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency data is the only source available, the
ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Moody’s or Standard and Poor’s using published conversion tables.196 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
disclosures continued the fair values:
(cid:115)(cid:0) Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the
Our centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £1.7 billion at
carrying amount
31 December 2012, all available within 3 months. This excludes
£0.7 billion centrally managed cash held by ViiV Healthcare, a (cid:115)(cid:0) Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices or
76.5% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested centrally managed calculated based on observable inputs in the case of marketable
liquid assets in bank deposits and Aaa/AAA rated US Treasury and securities; based on principal amounts in the case of non-
Treasury repo only money market funds (these bear credit exposure marketable securities because of their short repricing periods
to the US Government (Aaa/AA+ rated)).
(cid:115)(cid:0) Other investments – equity investments traded in an active
Wholesale and retail credit risk market determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange
quoted bid price; other equity investments determined by
Outside the USA, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the reference to the current market value of similar instruments or
Group’s trade receivables balance. by reference to the discounted cash flows of the underlying
net assets
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers (cid:115)(cid:0) Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. approximates to the carrying amount because of the short
Sales to the three largest wholesalers amount to approximately 81% maturity of these instruments
of the Group’s US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover. At 31
(cid:115)(cid:0) Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the case
December 2012, the Group had trade receivables due from these
of European and US Medium term notes and other fixed rate
three wholesalers totalling £815 million (2011 – £934 million).
borrowings; approximates to the carrying amount in the case
The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect
of floating rate bank loans and other loans
of these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them encounters
financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the (cid:115)(cid:0) Contingent consideration for business acquisitions after
Group’s financial results. 1 January 2010 – based on present values of expected future
contractual cash flows
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these
wholesalers include review of their quarterly financial information (cid:115)(cid:0) Interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts - based
and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal on contractual cash flows using market sourced data
risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review of credit limits. (exchange rates or interest rates) at the balance sheet date
However, the Group believes there is no further credit risk provision
(cid:115)(cid:0) Receivables and payables – approximates to the
required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful
carrying amount
debts (see Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’).
(cid:115)(cid:0) Company-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
surrender value
The table on page 197 presents the carrying amounts and the fair (cid:115)(cid:0) Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.
values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 December
2012 and 31 December 2011. Fair value of investments in GSK shares
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included At 31 December 2012, the Employee Share Ownership Plan
at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £391 million
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced (2011 – £492 million) and a fair value of £1,004 million
or liquidation sale. (2011 – £1,337 million) based on quoted market price. The shares
represent purchases by the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of
options and awards under employee incentive schemes. The carrying
value, which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these
shares has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves.
At 31 December 2012, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of
£6,602 million (2011 – £6,661 million) which has been deducted
from retained earnings.GSK Annual Report 2012 197
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2012 2011
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 4,184 4,184 5,714 5,714
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments:
– Government bonds 74 74 175 175
– other 7 7 9 9
Total liquid investments a 81 81 184 184
Other investments a 787 787 590 590
Loans and receivables:
Trade and other receivables and certain Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 b 4,907 4,907 5,312 5,312
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39 a,b 194 194 176 176
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d 80 80 107 107
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d 23 23 48 48
Total financial assets 10,256 10,256 12,131 12,131
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (3,279) (3,619) (5,907) (6,290)
– other bonds (12,876) (14,951) (8,733) (10,627)
– bank loans and overdrafts (323) (323) (166) (166)
– commercial paper (1,748) (1,748) – –
Total borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases e (18,226) (20,641) (14,806) (17,083)
Obligations under finance leases (76) (76) (95) (95)
Total borrowings (18,302) (20,717) (14,901) (17,178)
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 c (7,730) (7,730) (7,105) (7,105)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 a,c (709) (709) – –
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d (8) (8) – –
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d (57) (57) (177) (177)
Total financial liabilities (26,806) (29,221) (22,183) (24,460)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (16,550) (18,965) (10,052) (12,329)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 196. Trade and other
receivables and Other non-current assets as well as Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities are
reconciled to the relevant Notes on page 199.198 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available, the asset
or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable market data. If one or
more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified as Level 3. Other
investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities with which the Group has entered into
research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies. Other non-current liabilities classified as level 3 comprise
contingent consideration for business acquisitions.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2012 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 74 7 – 81
Other investments 589 – 198 787
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 194 – 194
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 80 – 80
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 22 1 23
663 303 199 1,165
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current liabilities – – (709) (709)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (8) – (8)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (55) (2) (57)
– (63) (711) (774)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2011 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 172 12 – 184
Other investments 385 – 205 590
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 176 – 176
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 107 – 107
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 47 1 48
557 342 206 1,105
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – – – –
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (176) (1) (177)
– (176) (1) (177)
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2012 2011
£m £m
At 1 January 205 220
Losses recognised in the income statement (32) (29)
Gains recognised in other comprehensive income 4 7
Contingent consideration liabilities for businesses acquired during the year (696) –
Equity investment converted into subsidiary on acquisition of business (23) –
Equity investment additions 44 31
Equity investment disposals (7) (14)
Transfers from Level 3 – (10)
Exchange (7) –
At 31 December (512) 205
The £717 million movement in total financial instruments measured at fair value using Level 3 valuation methods over the year arises
principally from contingent consideration liabilities of £696 million entered into as a result of business acquisitions during the year. Net
losses of £24 million (2011 – £25 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments held at the end of the year were reported in Other
operating income.GSK Annual Report 2012 199
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
£670 million of the total carrying value of financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December 2012 is contingent
consideration for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is expected to be paid over several
years and will vary in line with sales of dolutegravir, for which regulatory applications for marketing approval were submitted in the
European Union, the USA and Canada in December 2012. A probability of success has been applied in valuing the contingent consideration
and success in obtaining regulatory approval would result in an increase in the liability and a charge to the Income Statement of
approximately £74 million. If regulatory approval is not obtained, no contingent consideration will be payable and the liability will be
released through the income statement. The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity
to reasonably possible changes in other key inputs to the valuation of this liability.
2012 Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement from change in key inputs
£m
10% increase in sales forecasts 78
10% decrease in sales forecasts (77)
1% increase in market interest rates (60)
1% decrease in market interest rates 68
(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall within the
scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Financial instruments
within the Other non-current assets balance include company-owned life insurance policies. Other assets include tax receivables, pension
surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2012 2011
At fair value At fair value
through Loans and Financial through Loans and Financial
profit or loss receivables instruments Other Total profit or loss receivables instruments Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 24) – 4,577 4,577 665 5,242 – 5,055 5,055 521 5,576
Other non-current assets
(Note 22) 194 330 524 158 682 176 257 433 92 525
194 4,907 5,101 823 5,924 176 5,312 5,488 613 6,101
The following table shows the age of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has
been made:
2012 2011
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 118 191
Past due by 31–90 days 129 92
Past due by 91–180 days 100 80
Past due by 181–365 days 71 60
Past due by more than 365 days 41 81
459 504
Amounts past due by greater than 90 days and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has been made total £212 million
(2011 – £221 million). Of this balance £99 million (2011 – £136 million) relates to receivables due from state hospital authorities in Greece,
Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. The total receivables due from state hospital authorities in these countries (current and past due, net of
provisions) is £257 million (2011 – £293 million).
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities
which fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing.
Accrued wages and salaries are included within financial liabilities. Other liabilities include payments on account, tax and social security
payables and provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset, which are outside the
scope of IAS 39. At 31 December 2011, no financial liabilities were measured at fair value through profit or loss.
2012 2011
At fair value
through Other Financial Financial
profit or loss liabilities instruments Other Total instruments Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables (Note 27) – (7,485) (7,485) (569) (8,054) (6,951) (408) (7,359)
Other provisions (Note 29) – (157) (157) (1,235) (1,392) (62) (3,572) (3,634)
Other non-current liabilities (Note 30) (709) (88) (797) (635) (1,432) (92) (534) (626)
(709) (7,730) (8,439) (2,439) (10,878) (7,105) (4,514) (11,619)200 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the fair values of derivatives held by GSK.
2012 2011
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Fair value hedges – Interest rate swaps
(principal amount – £920 million (2011 – £968 million)) 54 – 84 –
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £7,529 million (2011 – £4,260 million)) 25 (8) 23 –
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £242 million (2011 – £nil) 1 – – –
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss 80 (8) 107 –
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £10,270 million (2011 – £13,280 million)) 18 (53) 44 (172)
Embedded and other derivatives 5 (4) 4 (5)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 23 (57) 48 (177)
Total derivative instruments 103 (65) 155 (177)
Analysed as:
Current 49 (63) 70 (175)
Non-current 54 (2) 85 (2)
Total 103 (65) 155 (177)
Foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading under IAS 39
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance sheet date. The Group’s
foreign exchange contracts are for periods of 12 months or less. At 31 December 2012, the Group held outstanding foreign exchange
contracts consisting primarily of currency swaps with a net liability fair value of £35 million (2011 – £128 million net liability) which represent
hedges of inter-company loans and deposits, external debt and legal provisions, that are not designated as accounting hedges. Fair value
movements are taken to the income statement in the period to offset the exchange gains and losses on the related inter-company lending
and borrowing, external debt and legal provisions.
Fair value hedges
The Group has designated a series of interest rate swaps as a fair value hedge. The risk being hedged is the variability of the fair value of
the bond arising from interest rate fluctuations. Gains and losses on fair value hedges are disclosed in Note 12, ‘Finance expense’.
The carrying value of bonds in a designated hedging relationship on page 197 includes £970 million (2011 – £1,046 million) that is deemed
a hedged item in a fair value hedge relationship.
Net investment hedges
During the year, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency translation
risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro) and Japanese (Yen) foreign operations as shown in the
table above.
The carrying value of bonds in a designated hedging relationship on page 197 includes £2,309 million (2011 – £4,861 million) that is
deemed a hedging instrument in a net investment hedge relationship.
Cash flow hedges
During December 2012, the Group entered into a non-deliverable foreign exchange contract which it designated as a cash flow hedge of
a foreign exchange exposure arising on the recognition of a liability denominated in Indian Rupee in the Group’s consolidated financial
statements.
At 31 December 2011, the Group had no designated cash flow hedges.GSK Annual Report 2012 201
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(e) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper, before and after the effect
of interest rate swaps. The maturity analysis of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate
repricing dates. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2012 2011
Effect of Effect of
interest interest
Debt rate swaps Total Debt rate swaps Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (3,604) (970) (4,574) (2,664) (1,046) (3,710)
Between one and two years (970) 970 – (1,611) – (1,611)
Between two and three years (1,907) – (1,907) (1,046) 1,046 –
Between three and four years – – – (1,326) – (1,326)
Between four and five years (2,232) – (2,232) – – –
Between five and ten years (2,897) – (2,897) (2,806) – (2,806)
Greater than ten years (6,616) – (6,616) (5,353) – (5,353)
Total (18,226) – (18,226) (14,806) – (14,806)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (16,155) 970 (15,185) (14,639) 1,046 (13,593)
Floating rate interest (2,064) (970) (3,034) (166) (1,046) (1,212)
Total interest bearing (18,219) – (18,219) (14,805) – (14,805)
Non-interest bearing (7) – (7) (1) – (1)
(18,226) – (18,226) (14,806) – (14,806)
The Group holds interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, to convert £970 million of fixed rate debt with a maturity between
one and two years (2011 – £1,046 million with a maturity between two and three years) into a floating rate exposure.
(f) Sensitivity analysis
Foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed
to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all
constant and on the basis of the hedge designations as at 31 December. Financial instruments affected by market risk include cash and
cash equivalents, borrowings, trade receivables and payables and derivative financial instruments.
The following analyses are intended to illustrate the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The table below shows on an indicative basis the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates on its US dollar, Euro and Yen financial
instruments.
These three currencies are the major foreign currencies in which GSK’s financial instruments are denominated. GSK has considered
movements in these currencies and has concluded that a 10 cent or 10 yen movement in rates against Sterling is reasonable.
In this analysis, financial instruments are only considered sensitive to foreign exchange rates where they are not in the functional currency
of the entity that holds them. Obligations under finance leases, inter-company loans that are fully hedged to maturity and certain
non-derivative financial instruments not in net debt are excluded as they do not present a material exposure. Foreign exchange sensitivity
on Group assets and liabilities other than financial instruments is not included in the calculation.
The movement in the income statement in the table below relates primarily to hedging instruments for legal provisions and to trade
receivables and payables. Whilst the hedging instruments provide economic hedges, the related remeasurement of provisions is not
included in the calculation.
2012 2011
Increase in Increase in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2011: 10 cent) 41 137
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2011: 10 cent) 29 16
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2011: 20 yen) – 1
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following increase/(decrease) in income £(36) million, £(25) million and
£nil for US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2011 – £(129) million, £(14) million and £(1) million).202 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The movements in equity in the table below relate to hedging instruments (foreign exchange derivatives and external debt) designated as a
net investment hedge to hedge the Group assets denominated in Euro and Yen.
2012 2011
(Decrease) in (Decrease) in
equity equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2011: 10 cent) – –
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2011: 10 cent) (814) (760)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2011: 20 yen) (49) –
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following increase in equity: £nil, £691 million and £42 million for
US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2011 –£nil, £702 million and £nil).
The table below presents the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates based on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 32
adjusting for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2012 2011
(Increase)/ (Increase)/
decrease in decrease in
net debt net debt
Net debt impact of non-functional foreign currency exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2011: 10 cent) (460) (392)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2011: 10 cent) 248 21
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2011: 20 yen) 15 70
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following (increase)/decrease in net debt: £407 million, £(211) million
and £(13) million for US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2011 – £344 million, £(29) million and £(50) million).
Interest rate sensitivity
The table below shows on an indicative basis the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates on its floating rate Sterling, US dollar and Euro financial
instruments, being the currencies in which GSK has historically issued debt and held investments. GSK has considered movements in these
interest rates over the last three years and has concluded that a 1% (100 basis points) increase is a reasonable benchmark. Debt with a
maturity of less than one year is floating rate for this calculation. Interest rate movements on derivative financial instruments designated as
fair value hedges are deemed to have an immaterial effect on the Group Income Statement due to compensating amounts in the carrying
value of debt. A 1% (100 basis points) movement in interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2012 2011
Increase/ Increase/
(decrease) in (decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates (2011: 1%) 5 7
1% (100 basis points) increase in US dollar interest rates (2011: 1%) – 12
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (2011: 1%) (12) (15)
These interest rates could not be decreased by 1% (100 basis points) as they are currently less than 1.0%. The maximum increase/(decrease) in
income would therefore be limited to £(2) million, £nil and £nil for Sterling, US dollar and Euro interest rates respectively (2011 – £(5) million,
£(1) million and £14 million).
(g) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative
financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. The impact of interest rate swaps has been excluded. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined
as all classes of borrowings except for obligations under finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without taking
account of future issuance. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign
currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. Contractual cash flows in respect of operating lease vacant space provisions are
excluded from the table below as they are included in the Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases table in Note 39 ‘Commitments’.
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2012
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (3,607) (690) (27) (3) (7,485) (11,812)
Between one and two years (920) (633) (19) (2) (129) (1,703)
Between two and three years (1,914) (610) (15) (2) (10) (2,551)
Between three and four years – (558) (8) (1) (34) (601)
Between four and five years (2,243) (549) (2) – (60) (2,854)
Between five and ten years (2,914) (1,967) (5) (1) (583) (5,470)
Greater than ten years (6,704) (5,200) – – (853) (12,757)
Gross contractual cash flows (18,302) (10,207) (76) (9) (9,154) (37,748)GSK Annual Report 2012 203
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2011
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (2,665) (750) (34) (3) (6,730) (10,182)
Between one and two years (1,613) (636) (24) (3) (223) (2,499)
Between two and three years (968) (558) (15) (3) (59) (1,603)
Between three and four years (1,333) (515) (11) (1) (61) (1,921)
Between four and five years – (463) (3) (1) (5) (472)
Between five and ten years (2,816) (1,784) (8) – (22) (4,630)
Greater than ten years (5,422) (4,785) – – (5) (10,212)
Gross contractual cash flows (14,817) (9,491) (95) (11) (7,105) (31,519)
The increase in contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities of £6.2 billion over the year results in part from the issuance in
2012 of £4.5 billion of new US and European Medium Term Notes and their future interest cash flows and the issuance of £1.7 billion of
short-term commercial paper, offset by the repayment of £2.5 billion of European Medium Term Notes which matured in 2012. Contingent
consideration liabilities arising on business acquisitions in 2012 add a further £1.6 billion of undiscounted expected future cash flows.
The following table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments, excluding
embedded derivatives and equity options which are not material, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are
translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign exchange contracts are presented for the purposes of
this table, though, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
The amounts receivable and payable in less than one year have increased compared to 31 December 2011 due to higher levels of hedging
of inter-company loans and external debt. This is reflected in the increased principal amounts shown in the table below.
2012 2011
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year 17,822 (18,047) 17,141 (17,209)
Between one and two years 20 (2) 38 (4)
Between two and three years – – 19 (2)
Gross contractual cash flows 17,842 (18,049) 17,198 (17,215)
42 Employee share schemes
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at
the grant price, savings-related share option schemes and share award schemes. In addition, GSK operates the Performance Share Plan,
whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by the
Group of specified performance targets and the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in
GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period. The granting of restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options
to employees as the cost of the scheme more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee.
Grants under share option schemes are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants of restricted shares
and share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three year vesting/performance period. Grants under savings-related share
option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. Grants under share option schemes and awards under the Performance
Share Plan are normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc but in some circumstances will be settled in cash. Options
under the share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK practice, the majority
of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling at the date of grant.
Share options awarded to the Directors and, with effect from the 2004 grant, the CET are subject to performance criteria.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options and awards to arrive at the share based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has
been used. The assumptions used in the model for 2010, 2011 and 2012 are as follows:
2012 2011 2010
Risk-free interest rate 0.1% – 0.5% 0.5% – 1.9% 0.8% – 1.9%
Dividend yield* 5.2% 5.8% 5.3%
Volatility 18% – 23% 24% – 28% 26% – 29%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 4 years 5 years 5 years
Savings-related share option and share award schemes 3-4 years 3-4 years 3-4 years
Weighted average share price for grants in the year:
Shares £14.35 £11.90 £12.04
ADS $45.57 $39.10 $37.29
* 0% for those plans where dividends are reinvested.204 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
42 Employee share schemes continued
Volatility is determined based on the three and five year share price history where appropriate. The fair value of performance share plan
grants take into account market conditions. Expected lives of options were determined based on weighted average historic exercises
of options.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 1 January 2010 124,019 £14.32 73,419 $46.88 8,065 £9.77
Options granted 11,257 £12.04 £1.19 7,384 $37.29 $3.95 – – –
Options exercised (3,625) £11.86 (916) $36.59 (1,310) £10.45
Options lapsed (21,551) £15.10 (7,776) $49.62 (800) £10.02
At 31 December 2010 110,100 £14.02 72,111 $45.73 5,955 £9.59
Options granted – – – – – – – – –
Options exercised (14,618) £11.97 (3,883) $38.61 (4,068) £9.55
Options lapsed (35,112) £17.27 (23,338) $51.21 (317) £9.70
At 31 December 2011 60,370 £12.62 44,890 $43.50 1,570 £9.68
Options granted – – – – – – 4,210 £11.59 £1.76
Options exercised (12,473) £11.97 (9,698) $39.33 (1,230) £9.67
Options lapsed (5,168) £13.28 (4,593) $45.99 (89) £9.82
At 31 December 2012 42,729 £12.72 30,599 $44.36 4,461 £11.48
Range of exercise prices on
options outstanding at year end £10.76 – £14.93 $33.42 – $58.00 £9.51 – £11.59
Weighted average market
price on exercise £14.24 $45.26 £13.93
Weighted average remaining
contractual life 4.4 years 4.2 years 3.2 years
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
at 31 December 2012 Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise
Year of grant
000 price date 000 price date 000 price date
2003 7,774 £12.67 14.12.13 5,119 $43.77 14.12.13 – – –
2004 2,537 £11.22 03.12.14 3,150 $43.31 02.12.14 – – –
2005 94 £13.22 01.11.15 265 $47.28 31.10.15 – – –
2006 5,236 £14.69 27.11.16 3,943 $51.30 28.07.16 – – –
2007 6,074 £14.82 25.07.17 4,331 $57.48 25.07.17 – – –
2008 4,432 £11.49 27.07.18 4,074 $45.02 03.11.18 – – –
2009 7,089 £11.76 22.07.19 3,554 $33.76 21.07.19 261 £9.72 22.04.13
2010 9,493 £12.03 21.07.20 6,163 $37.28 21.07.20 – – –
2011 – – – – – – – – –
2012 – – – – – – 4,200 £11.59 02.05.16
Total 42,729 £12.72 30,599 $44.36 4,461 £11.48
Options normally become exercisable from three years from the date of grant but may, under certain circumstances, vest earlier as set out
within the various scheme rules.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options exercisable schemes - shares schemes - ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2010 81,362 £14.80 53,831 $48.26 175 £10.50
At 31 December 2011 42,432 £12.92 33,143 $46.33 – –
At 31 December 2012 33,930 £12.90 24,706 $46.10 261 £9.72GSK Annual Report 2012 205
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
42 Employee share schemes continued
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Performance Share Plan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested during
the same period. For awards granted from 2011 onwards to Directors and members of the CET, the performance conditions are based on four
equally weighted measures over a three year performance period. The first measure is based on the achievement of adjusted free cash flow
targets. The second measure is based on relative TSR performance against a comparator group. The remaining two measures are based on
business-specific performance measures on business diversification and R&D new product performance. For details on the calculation of
these measures, see the Remuneration Report on pages 109 to 136.
For awards granted in 2009 and 2010 to Directors and members of the CET, 40% of the award is based on the achievement of adjusted
free cash flow targets over a three year measurement period. The remaining 60% of the award is based on relative TSR performance against
a comparator group as described on pages 115 and 117. Half of the TSR element of each award is measured over three years and half over
four years. Awards granted to Directors and members of the CET prior to 2009 are subject to a single performance condition which
compares GSK’s TSR over the period with the TSR of companies in the comparator group over the same period.
For those awards made to all other eligible employees prior to 2009 the performance conditions consist of two parts, each of which applies
to 50% of the award. The first part of the performance condition compares GSK’s EPS growth to the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index
over the three year measurement period. The second part of the performance condition compares GSK’s TSR over the period with the TSR
of companies in the comparator group over the same period. For awards granted from 2009 onwards, the first part of the performance
condition continues to be based on EPS. The second part of the performance condition is based on strategic or operational business
measures, over a three year measurement period, specific to the employee’s business area.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2010 7,606 3,732
Awards granted 3,812 £9.13 1,624 $29.91
Awards exercised (440) (386)
Awards cancelled (2,085) (1,357)
At 31 December 2010 8,893 3,613
Awards granted 4,712 £9.66 1,740 $31.65
Awards exercised (660) (315)
Awards cancelled (2,404) (1,112)
At 31 December 2011 10,541 3,926
Awards granted 4,797 £11.43 1,645 $37.63
Awards exercised (1,388) (485)
Awards cancelled (1,794) (710)
At 31 December 2012 12,156 4,376
During the year 529,000 shares and 225,000 ADS were awarded through dividends reinvested. These are included above.
Share Value Plan
The Group operates a Share Value Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of shares, to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest
after three years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2010 14,235 11,309
Awards granted 5,844 £10.04 4,355 $31.30
Awards exercised (4,993) (3,939)
Awards cancelled (834) (747)
At 31 December 2010 14,252 10,978
Awards granted 10,923 £9.78 7,481 $32.02
Awards exercised (4,677) (3,698)
Awards cancelled (1,040) (680)
At 31 December 2011 19,458 14,081
Awards granted 11,411 £11.96 7,595 $38.51
Awards exercised (4,650) (3,410)
Awards cancelled (901) (478)
At 31 December 2012 25,318 17,788206 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
42 Employee share schemes continued
Deferred Investment Award Plan
The Group operates a Deferred Investment Award Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of notional shares, to certain senior
executives at no cost. Awards typically vest over a three-year period commencing on the fourth anniversary from date of grant with
50% of the award initially vesting and then 25% in each of the subsequent two years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2010 549 209
Awards granted 290 £12.20 96 $36.85
Awards exercised (72) (9)
Awards cancelled (23) (16)
At 31 December 2010 744 280
Awards granted 114 £12.54 50 $42.98
Awards exercised (77) (19)
Awards cancelled (19) (16)
At 31 December 2011 762 295
Awards granted 106 £13.97 4 $45.60
Awards exercised (220) (26)
Awards cancelled (85) (86)
At 31 December 2012 563 187
During the year 46,000 additional shares and 14,000 additional ADS were awarded through dividends reinvested.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards
made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts
purchase shares on the open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. Costs of running the ESOP
Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the value of
proceeds receivable from employees on exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanent diminution in value this is reflected by a transfer to
retained earnings. The Trusts also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the SmithKline
Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2012 2011
Number of shares (000) 75,066 60,358
£m £m
Nominal value 19 15
Carrying value 390 296
Market value 1,002 887
Shares held for share option schemes 2012 2011
Number of shares (000) 139 30,565
£m £m
Nominal value – 8
Carrying value 1 196
Market value 2 450GSK Annual Report 2012 207
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
43 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31 December 2012. Details
are given of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business sector and the business activities. The equity
share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies
are incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
England Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited * Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited * Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited * Ph,CH s
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited * Ph h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ph,CH f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Limited Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Brentford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph d r
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ph m p
Brentford Glaxochem Pte Ltd (i) Ph h
Brentford Setfirst Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ph p
Cambridge Domantis Limited Ph d r
Brentford ViiV Healthcare Limited Ph h 77
Brentford ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ph m s 77
Brentford ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ph e f 77
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ph m
Belgium Wavre GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d e m p r
Czech Republic Prague GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ph,CH m
Denmark Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH e m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph m r d
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ph p
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH m
Marly le Roi ViiV Healthcare S.A.S. Ph m 77
St. Amand Les Eaux GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ph p
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG CH h m s
Munich GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Ph d h m s
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH m
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKline Medicine and Healthcare Products Limited Ph,CH e m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d h m
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. CH m
Verona GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing S.p.A. Ph p
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) S.A.R.L Ph,CH f h
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Zeist GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. CH m
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph p
Poznan GSK Services Sp.z o.o. Ph m s
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z o.o. CH m e
Portugal Alges GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ph m208 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
43 Principal Group companies continued
Europe Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
Republic of Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (ii) Ph d p r
Ireland Cork GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (ii) Ph e
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (ii) CH m
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ph m
Dungarvan Stafford Miller (Ireland) Limited (ii) CH p
Dungarvan GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (ii) CH p
Sligo Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ph p
Romania Brasov Europharm Holding S.A. Ph,CH s
Bucharest GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ph m r s
Russian Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Ph m
Federation Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare ZAO CH m
Spain Madrid GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Madrid GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. CH m
Aranda de Duero Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ph p
Sweden Solna GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
USA
USA Research Triangle Park Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Ph m p
Marietta Corixa Corporation Ph p r
Philadelphia GlaxoSmithKline LLC Ph,CH d e m p r s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m p 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc. CH m
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Ph,CH h
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Ph,CH f
Cambridge Sirtris Pharmaceuticals Inc. Ph r
Research Triangle Park ViiV Healthcare Company Ph m 77
Rockville Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Ph d m p r
Americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Ph m p r
Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. CH m
Laval ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Ph d e p r
Mexico Mexico City GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ph,CH e m p s
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Beijing GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co. Ltd Ph,CH d h m r s
Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Shanghai GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd Ph m p
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd CH e m p 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph m p 51
New Delhi GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (iii) CH d e m p r s 43
Malaysia Petaling Jaya GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn Bhd CH m
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph,CH d m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH e m p r 83
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ph,CH d e m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph d e p r s
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph,CH d e m s
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ph ,CH m
Thailand Bangkok GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ph,CH mGSK Annual Report 2012 209
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
43 Principal Group companies continued
Japan Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH e m p r
Buenos Aires Laboratorios Phoenix Sociedad Anonima Industrial
Comercial y Financiera Ph d e m p
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Ph,CH d e m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela, C.A. Ph,CH m
Middle East & Africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E Ph,CH e m p 91
Nigeria Lagos GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc Ph,CH e m p 46
South Africa Johannesburg GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ph,CH e m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph,CH m
Middle East & Africa Associate
South Africa Johannesburg Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (iv) Ph,CH m p r 19
(i) Incorporated in Singapore.
(ii) Exempt from the provisions of section 7 of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 (Ireland).
(iii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds
of dominant influence. On 5 February 2013, the Group’s shareholding increased to 72.5% following the completion of an open
offer undertaken by GlaxoSmithKline Pte. Ltd.
(iv) E quity accounted on the grounds of significant influence.
* Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Key
Business sector: Ph Pharmaceuticals, CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development, e exporting, f finance, h holding company, i insurance, m marketing, p production, r research,
s service
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the
Registrar of Companies. Each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of
the company, and the company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc.210 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings In the Netherlands, in an action brought by Sandoz Pharmaceuticals
(‘Sandoz’) and Hexal, the District Court of The Hague on 26 January
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative 2011 revoked the Supplementary Protection Certificate (‘SPC’) which
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, extends protection for the product until September 2013.
anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related private
A revocation action against the basic patent covering the Seretide
litigation. The Group makes provision for these proceedings on a
combination in Ireland was filed in the High Court in Dublin on
regular basis as summarised in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and
behalf of Ivax in July 2008. The High Court handed down a decision
policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. The Group may become
on 26 June 2009 finding the patent invalid for obviousness. The
involved in significant legal proceedings in respect of which it is not
Group filed an appeal of this decision in October 2009. No trial
possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect,
date has been set for the appeal.
if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
In these cases, appropriate disclosures about such cases would be There are currently no generic salmeterol/fluticasone proportionate
included but no provision would be made. fixed combination products in the UK, Belgium, France, Germany,
Ireland or the Netherlands.
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below,
other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group On 4 July 2011, the Group entered into a settlement agreement with
is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect Sandoz pursuant to which the parties resolved all pending litigation
at this stage. The Group does not believe that information about relating to the Group’s combination patents for Seretide in Europe.
the amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would be The settlement agreement provides that the Group will not pursue
meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings. This is due legal action under its combination patents against Sandoz to block
to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the stage its launch of a generic salmeterol/fluticasone propionate product in
of proceedings, the entitlement of parties to appeal a decision any European country. Sandoz has not received regulatory approval
and clarity as to theories of liability, damages and governing for a salmeterol/fluticasone proportionate product in any European
law. Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity country as of this date.
and enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products or
processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those patents. Argatroban
A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent protection
In December 2007, Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc. (‘Encysive’),
for the product at issue. The consequences of any such loss could be
Mitsubishi Kasei Corporation (‘Mitsubishi’) and the Group filed an
a significant decrease in sales of that product and could materially
action in the United States District Court for the Southern District
affect future results of operations for the Group.
of New York against Barr Laboratories, Inc. (‘Barr’) for infringement
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are of Mitsubishi’s pharmaceutical composition patent covering
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions are argatroban. Pursuant to a licence from Mitsubishi, Encysive
made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice, developed argatroban for the treatment of heparin-induced
where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a thrombocytopenia and holds the New Drug Application approved
reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute. by the US Food and Drug Administration (‘FDA’). Encysive licensed
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, the US marketing rights for argatroban to the Group. The Mitsubishi
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable patent expires in June 2014. Barr (now Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required (‘Teva’)) filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application (‘ANDA’) with
to cover unasserted claims. At 31 December 2012, the Group’s the FDA with a certification of invalidity, unenforceability and
aggregate provision for legal and other disputes (not including non-infringement of the Mitsubishi patent. On 17 June 2010, the
tax matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was £0.5 billion. Group and its partners prevailed against Teva, with the trial judge
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts ruling that Mitsubishi’s patent covering the formulation for injectable
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation argatroban was infringed and not invalid. On 2 August 2011, the
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. United States Court of Appeal for the Federal Circuit affirmed the
decision. As a result of the Court’s decision, Teva is precluded from
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore,
launching its generic product until 20 June 2014.
there can be no assurance that any losses that result from the
outcome of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material On 30 March 2012, the Group filed suit in the US District Court for
amount, the amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s the District of New Jersey to enjoin Hikma Pharmaceuticals (‘Hikma’)
financial accounts. If this were to happen, it could have a material from launching a generic argatroban product. Pfizer (which had
adverse impact on the results of operation of the Group in the acquired Encysive) and Mitsubishi were joined in the suit as the
reporting period in which the judgments are incurred or the Group’s licensors. A trial was held on 10 July 2012. On 31 July
settlements entered into. The most significant of these matters 2012, the court found the patent valid, but not infringed. Hikma
are described below. announced that it was launching its product on 13 December 2012.
Intellectual property Arzerra/Benlysta/Cabilly patents
On 17 February 2010, the Group filed a declaratory action in the
Advair/Seretide
United States District Court for the Northern District of California for
A number of companies have challenged the Group’s patents a declaration that US Patent No. 6,331,415 (known as the ‘Cabilly II’
covering Advair/Seretide (salmeterol/fluticasone propionate) patent), which is owned jointly by Genentech, Inc. and the City of
in certain European jurisdictions, including in the UK, Belgium, Hope, is invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed by the Group’s
France, Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands. On 23 February product Arzerra (ofatumumab), which is approved by the FDA for
2010, in actions brought by Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Hexal refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (‘CLL’). Genentech and the
Pharmaceuticals (‘Hexal’), Neolab Ltd. and Ivax International, City of Hope counterclaimed for infringement. The suit subsequently
the Federal Court in Munich revoked the Group’s German was transferred to the United States District Court for the Middle
Seretide combination patent for lack of inventive step. District of California.GSK Annual Report 2012 211
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
44 Legal proceedings continued In May, 2010, the Group settled an earlier patent challenge against
Avodart by Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (‘Teva’). Under the terms of
On 12 April 2011, after obtaining a third Cabilly patent (the ‘Cabilly the settlement, Teva will be permitted to launch its generic
III’ patent), Genentech filed suit against the Group in the United dutasteride product in the fourth quarter of 2015 or earlier under
States District Court for the Middle District of California alleging certain circumstances. Teva’s generic dutasteride product was
that the Group and Lonza, the manufacturer of Arzerra, infringed approved by the FDA on 21 December 2010.
the Cabilly III patent by making and selling Arzerra. The Group is
On 29 December 2010, Anchen notified the Group that it had filed
contractually required to defend and indemnify Lonza for claims
an ANDA for Jalyn with a Paragraph IV certification alleging that the
related to Arzerra under the Cabilly patents. Genentech also sued
‘467 patent, which expires in 2015, was invalid, unenforceable or
the Group and Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (‘HGS’) claiming
not infringed. Jalyn, a combination of dutasteride and tamsulosin, is
infringement by the making and selling of Benlysta under the
covered by the same three patents that cover Avodart. Subsequently,
Cabilly II and III patents. HGS, the Group’s prior licensor for Benlysta,
the Group received similar notices from Impax Laboratories, Inc. and
was acquired by the Group in 2012.
Watson challenging one or more of the patents covering Jalyn. The
The Group settled its litigation with Genentech over the Cabilly II Group sued all the ANDA applicants for Jalyn in the United States
and Cabilly III patents relating to Arzerra in May 2012 and relating District Court for the District of Delaware. These cases have been
to Benlysta in December 2012. The Group has obtained a consolidated for trial with the Avodart cases. On 17 January 2013,
worldwide, royalty-bearing license with regard to both products. the Group and Anchen settled the litigation on terms that would
allow Anchen to enter the market for Jalyn in the fourth quarter
On 23 March 2010, Genentech and Biogen Idec filed suit against
of 2015 or earlier under certain circumstances. A trial was held on the Group in the United States District Court for the Southern
28 January 2013 with the remaining defendants. A decision has
District of California alleging that the Group’s sale of Arzerra
not yet been rendered.
induces and contributes to infringement of their patent that claims
the treatment of CLL with an anti-CD-20 monoclonal antibody. Benlysta
The Group counterclaimed that the patent is invalid or not
infringed. On 18 October 2011, the District Court issued a ruling In September, 2012, the UK Court of Appeal refused an appeal by
that construed the claims in a manner such that Arzerra would Eli Lilly and Company (‘Eli Lilly’) asserting that Human Genome
not infringe the patent. Genentech and Biogen Idec stipulated Sciences, Inc. (‘HGS’) UK Patent No. EP0939804 for Benlysta was
to a judgment of no infringement, and filed an appeal of the claim invalid on the grounds that it lacked the necessary information
construction issue to the United States Court of Appeals for the required to work the invention described in the claims which covered
Federal Circuit on 5 December 2011. The appeal was heard on antibodies (the ‘antibody claim insufficiency argument’). The UK
8 November 2012. A decision has not yet been rendered. High Court and the UK Supreme Court previously had decided that
the patent was valid on all other grounds. The initial revocation was
Avodart/Jalyn brought by Eli Lilly in 2006 on the patent which claims the cytokine
BLyS and any antibody that binds to BLyS, such as Benlysta
On 29 November 2010, Banner Pharmacaps, Inc. (‘Banner’) notified
(belimumab). Eli Lilly has petitioned the UK Supreme Court to hear
the Group that it had filed an ANDA to market a generic version of
an appeal on its antibody claim insufficiency argument. The decision
Avodart (dutasteride). Banner’s notification contained a Paragraph
of the UK Supreme Court whether to grant the appeal is pending.
IV certification alleging that two patents expiring in 2013 and one
patent expiring in 2015 (the ‘467 patent) covering the compound Eli Lilly has also requested a declaration that any Supplementary
dutasteride were invalid or not infringed by Banner’s proposed Protection Certificate (‘SPC’) filed by HGS to extend its UK patent
generic dutasteride product. based upon Eli Lilly’s anti-BLys mAb will be invalid. On 3 August
2012, a decision was issued by the UK Court of Appeal to refer The Group subsequently received similar notices from Anchen
questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘CJEU’)
Pharmaceuticals (‘Anchen’), Roxane Laboratories (‘Roxanne’),
relating to whether the product is protected by a basic patent in
Watson Laboratories, Inc. (‘Watson’), Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
force. The judge ordered that the remaining issues, which are not
(‘Mylan’), and Apotex, Inc. (‘Apotex’) each variously challenging
included in the referral, should go to a fact-finding trial at the UK
either the ‘467 patent or all 3 patents.
High Court. A trial date has been set for July 2013 at the UK High
The Group filed suit against Banner and Anchen in the United States Court. The CJEU reference is likely to be heard in early 2014.
District Court for the District of Delaware on 13 January 2011 for
On 2 November 2011, Eli Lilly brought an action in the UK Patents
infringement of the Avodart patents. As a consequence, a stay
Court for revocation of a European patent owned by Biogen Idec
against FDA approval of Banner’s and Anchen’s products will be
covering the use of an antibody against B Lymphocyte Stimulatory
in effect until the earlier of May 2013 or a decision adverse to the
(also known as BLyS) for the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
Group. A separate complaint was filed against Roxane and Watson
The Group is exclusively licensed under this patent and is responsible
in the same court on 17 June 2011. On 8 September 2011, the
for defending the action. In March 2012, a similar action was
Group filed suit against Mylan and Impax. On 31 August 2012,
brought by Lilly against the equivalent Biogen Idec patent in Ireland.
the Group filed suit against Apotex. Thirty-month stays against
The European patent was also challenged in parallel proceedings by
FDA approval of these subsequent generic products will extend
Merck Serono at the European Patent Office. On 20 October 2012,
past the Anchen/Banner stay of May 2013.
the Biogen patent was revoked by the Technical Board of Appeal at
Except for the August, 2012 suit against Apotex, all of the cases for the EPO, which automatically rendered the various national patents
Avodart and Jalyn (described below) have been consolidated with invalid and the cases moot. This proceeding is now closed because
the original case against Anchen and Banner. A trial was held on the European patent was revoked in parallel proceedings by the
28 January 2013. A decision has not yet been rendered. European Patent Office. The revocation action will have no direct
effect on the ability of the Group to market Benlysta, or on the
validity of the other patents which cover Benlysta.212 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Lovaza
In March 2009, the Group received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals
Epzicom
USA, Inc. (‘Teva’), Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (‘Par’), and Apotex Inc.
On 30 November 2007, the Group received notice that Teva (‘Apotex’) had filed ANDAs with a Paragraph IV certification alleging
Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (‘Teva’) had filed an ANDA with a that two patents covering Lovaza (omega-3-acid ethyl esters) are
Paragraph IV certification for Epzicom (the combination of invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. The patents expire in March
lamivudine and abacavir). The certification challenged only the 2013 and April 2017. The Group is the licensee under these patents
patent covering the hemisulfate salt of abacavir, which expires in and has marketing rights in the USA and Puerto Rico. Pronova
2018. The Group did not sue Teva under this patent. On 27 June BioPharma Norge AS (‘Pronova’), the owner of the patents, sued
2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Teva had amended its Teva, Par and Apotex in the United States District Court for the
ANDA for Epzicom to contain a Paragraph IV certification for two District of Delaware. The Group was not a party to these suits.
additional patents listed in the Orange Book, alleging the patents On 30 March 2011, Pronova entered into an agreement with
were invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. The patents challenged Apotex to settle their patent litigation in the USA related to Lovaza.
in this new certification relate to a method of treating HIV using the The settlement grants Apotex a licence to enter the US market with
combination (expiring in 2016), and a certain crystal form of a generic version of Lovaza in the first quarter of 2015. Other terms
lamivudine (expiring in 2016). On 5 August 2011, ViiV Healthcare of the settlement are confidential.
filed suit against Teva under the combination patent in the United
States District Court for the District of Delaware. A stay is in place A trial involving Teva and Par was held in March and April 2011.
against FDA approval of Teva’s ANDA until the earlier of December On 28 May 2012, the United States District Court for the District of
2013 or a decision adverse to ViiV Healthcare in the matter. The Delaware ruled in Pronova’s favour, finding Pronova’s patent claims
District Court has consolidated discovery in the Epzicom case with are valid and would be infringed by Teva and Par. The court enjoined
ViiV Healthcare’s patent infringement suit against Lupin Ltd relating FDA approval of Teva’s and Par’s products until 2017. Par and Teva
to Trizivir, as both cases involve the same patent covering the appealed to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on
combination of lamivudine and abacavir. Trial is scheduled for either 27 June 2012. Briefing was completed on 15 January 2013,
23 September 2013 or, if the judge decides to join the case with and the parties await a hearing.
the Trizivir matter, for trial on 24 June 2013. Pronova and the Group also have received Paragraph IV notices
from Endo Pharmaceuticals (‘Endo’), Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Lexiva
(‘Mylan’), Sandoz, Inc. (‘Sandoz’) and Strides Arcolab, Ltd. (‘Strides’)
On 23 April 2012, Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited (‘Ranbaxy’) notified advising that they have submitted ANDAs to the FDA for a generic
ViiV Healthcare that it had filed a Paragraph IV certification alleging form of Lovaza. Pronova has chosen not to assert its patents against
that a patent claiming a polymorphic form of fosamprenavir calcium, Endo, Mylan, Sandoz and Strides while awaiting the ruling in the
the active ingredient in Lexiva, was invalid or not infringed. The patent litigation against Teva and Par in the United States District Court
expires in 2020. ViiV Healthcare did not sue under this patent. for the District of Delaware.
On 30 July 2012, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (‘Mylan’) notified Trizivir
ViiV Healthcare that it had filed an ANDA for Lexiva with a
Paragraph IV certification asserting that patents claiming (i) the On 18 May 2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin Ltd.
active ingredient (expiring in 2018) and (ii) a polymorphic form of (‘Lupin’) had filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification
the active ingredient (expiring 2020), are invalid, unenforceable, for Trizivir (the triple combination of lamivudine, AZT and abacavir)
or not infringed. Mylan is the second generic to file an ANDA for alleging that three patents listed in the Orange Book for Trizivir are
Lexiva, but the first generic company to challenge the basic either invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. These patents relate
compound patent on the active ingredient. to a method of treating HIV using the triple combination (expiring
in 2016), the hemisulfate salt of abacavir (expiring in 2018), and a
On 23 August 2012, ViiV Healthcare and its licensor, Vertex certain crystal form of lamivudine (expiring in 2016). On 29 June
Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, filed a patent infringement suit 2011, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin under the patent
against Mylan on the patent claiming the active ingredient (but covering the triple combination in the United States District Court
not the patent claiming the polymorph) in the US District Court for the District of Delaware. On 31 October 2011, the District Court
for the District of Delaware. Mylan subsequently filed a declaratory consolidated the case for discovery with ViiV Healthcare’s patent
judgment action against ViiV Healthcare alleging that the polymorph infringement suit involving Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and
patent is invalid and not infringed. ViiV Healthcare stipulated to Epzicom pending in the same court. A stay is in place against FDA
noninfringement of the patent claiming the polymorph. Trial is approval of Lupin’s ANDA until the earlier of November 2013 or a
scheduled for 17 May 2014 for infringement of the basic active decision adverse to ViiV Healthcare in the matter. Trial is scheduled
ingredient patent for Lexiva. to begin on 24 June 2013.
On 18 October 2012, Ranbaxy filed a Petition for Inter Parties
Veramyst
Review in the US Patent & Trademark Office (‘USPTO’) alleging that
the basic compound patent covering the active ingredient is invalid. On 9 November 2011, the Group received notice that Sandoz, Inc.
This is a collateral attack on the patent and will run in parallel to the had filed an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification for Veramyst
court challenge. ViiV Healthcare has responded to the USPTO and (fluticasone furoate) Nasal Spray, challenging the three patents listed
has asserted that the petition should not be granted. in the Orange Book for Veramyst as invalid, unenforceable, or not
infringed. All three patents expire in 2021. On 23 December 2011,
the Group filed suit against Sandoz in the United States District
Court for the District of Delaware on all three patents. A stay against
FDA approval of Sandoz’s generic product will be in place until the
earlier of a court decision adverse to the Group or May 2014.
Trial is scheduled to begin on 2 December 2013.GSK Annual Report 2012 213
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
44 Legal proceedings continued The Group has reached agreements to settle the substantial
majority of the US claims relating to Paxil use during pregnancy
Product liability as of February 2013, but a number of claims related to use during
pregnancy are still pending, including several scheduled for trial in
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development the Philadelphia Mass Tort Program. Other matters have been
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of dismissed without payment.
products for use by humans following approval by regulatory
In Canada, a nationwide class action was certified in a British
bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines
Columbia lawsuit alleging cardiovascular defects in children whose
are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues
mothers had taken Paxil during pregnancy. Another purported class
may become, or be believed by some to be, evident. The Group
action in Canada making similar allegations is pending.
is currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits
related to the Group’s Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare Final court approval of a class settlement was received in a certified
products. The most significant of those matters are described below. statewide class action seeking restitution for alleged violations of
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected the California Unfair Competition Law relating to symptoms on
financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and has discontinuing use of Paxil.
included a provision for the matters below in the provision for legal
In the UK, in late 2010, public funding was withdrawn from the
and other disputes, as also noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
hundreds of claimants who had received funding to pursue litigation
Avandia alleging that Paxil had caused them to suffer from withdrawal
reactions and dependency. The Legal Services Commission’s decision
The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf to withdraw funding remains the subject of an appeal to a Special
of individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use Cases Review Panel by some claimants. Other claimants have
of Avandia. The federal cases filed against the Group are part of a discontinued their claims.
multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Cases have Poligrip
also been filed in a number of state courts. Cases filed in state court
Beginning in 2005, a number of product liability lawsuits and claims
in Philadelphia have been coordinated in the Mass Tort Program;
were filed against the Group in both state and federal courts in the
cases in state court in California have been coordinated in Los
USA, including purported class actions, alleging that the zinc in
Angeles. Additionally, there are a number of purported class actions
Super Poligrip causes copper depletion and permanent neurologic seeking economic damages on behalf of third party payers and
injury. The federal cases were consolidated in the Denture Cream
consumers asserting claims arising under various state and federal
Adhesive multi-district litigation (‘MDL’) in the United States District
laws, including the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Court for the Southern District of Florida which was established in
Act (‘RICO’), state unfair trade practices and/or consumer protection
June 2009. Both the Group and Procter & Gamble are defendants in laws. In addition, three subrogation actions initiated by United
this litigation. Included in the MDL were four purported class actions
Health Group, Inc. and Humana have been brought against the
asserting economic loss claims under state consumer protection laws
Group. On 28 June 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for
and claims for medical monitoring, and all of the putative class
the Third Circuit ruled that Medicare Advantage organisations such
actions have now been dismissed. With two current exceptions (one
as United Health Group and Humana Medical Plan have a federal
state court case in Pennsylvania, and one state court case in small
cause of action under the Medicare Act. On 5 December 2012,
claims court in Tennessee), all of the state court cases were
the Group filed a petition for certiorari with the US Supreme Court
consolidated in the Philadelphia Mass Tort Program (‘MTP’). As of
seeking review of the Third Circuit’s decision. On 13 December
31 January 2013, the vast majority of individual cases previously
2012, Humana asked the District Court to certify its action as a class
pending in both the MDL and MTP have been dismissed, with fewer
action on behalf of Medicare Advantage organisations; the Group
than ten active cases in the MDL and three active cases in the MTP
has opposed this motion.
still pending against the Group. One individual lawsuit, as well as
As of February 2013, the Group has reached agreements to settle five purported class actions asserting consumer fraud claims were
the substantial majority of federal and state cases pending in the also filed and remain pending in Canada. There are a few unfiled
USA. Eleven purported class actions on Avandia are pending in claims in the UK and elsewhere. The Group voluntarily withdrew
Canada. The Group has reached an agreement in principle to all zinc-containing formulations of Super Poligrip from the market
resolve the single purported consumer class action in Israel. in early 2010.
Paxil and Paxil CR
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging that
use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries. Most of
these lawsuits in recent years have alleged that the use of Paxil
during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child with birth defects
or health issues. Other lawsuits and claims have alleged that patients
who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts
of violence or that patients suffered symptoms on discontinuing
treatment with Paxil.214 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Average wholesale price
The United States Department of Justice (‘DOJ’), a number of states
Sales and marketing and regulation
and putative classes of private payers have for several years been
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the investigating and/or bringing civil litigation regarding allegations that
expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category numerous pharmaceutical companies, including the Group, violated
and has included a provision for such matters in the provision for federal or state fraud and abuse laws as a result of the way ‘average
legal and other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which wholesale price’ (‘AWP’) and ‘wholesale acquisition cost’ (‘WAC’)
the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, have been determined and reported for various drugs reimbursed
‘Other provisions’. under the Medicare, Medicaid and other insurance programmes.
In 2005, the Group reached a $149 million civil settlement with the
‘Colorado investigation’ federal government to resolve allegations relating to the pricing and
marketing of Zofran and Kytril (the ‘DOJ Settlement’). The Group
In February 2004, the Group received a subpoena from the United
also amended its then-existing Corporate Integrity Agreement as a
States Attorney’s office in Colorado regarding the Group’s sales and
requirement of the settlement. In 2007, the Group received final
promotional practices relating to nine of its largest selling products,
approval of a $70 million nationwide private payer class action
for the period from January 1997 to 2004. That investigation was
settlement relating to the Group’s price reporting in a multi-district
later taken over by the United States Attorney’s Office for the
litigation proceeding in the United States District Court for the
District of Massachusetts and expanded to the present with respect
District of Massachusetts.
to Advair. On 2 July 2012, the Group announced that it had reached
an agreement with the United States Government, multiple states A number of states through their respective Attorneys General,
and the District of Columbia to conclude the Group’s most and most of the counties in New York State, filed civil lawsuits in
significant ongoing United States federal government investigations, state and federal courts against the Group and many other drug
specifically, (i) the Colorado investigation into the Group’s sales and companies claiming damages and restitution due to AWP and/or
marketing practices begun in February 2004; (ii) the United States WAC price reporting for pharmaceutical products covered by the
Department of Justice’s investigation of possible inappropriate use states’ Medicaid programmes. The states seek recovery on behalf
of the nominal price exception under the Medicaid Rebate Program; of the states as payers and, in some cases, on behalf of in-state
and (iii) the Department of Justice’s investigation of the development patients as consumers.
and marketing of Avandia, for a settlement payment of $3 billion.
The Group has separately resolved AWP claims by state Medicaid
The settlement resolved criminal and civil liabilities related to these
programmes in almost all of the states through the DOJ Settlement
investigations. The payment was covered by the Group’s existing
or separate negotiations. Litigation concerning AWP issues is
provisions and funded through existing cash resources.
continuing with two states, Illinois and Wisconsin.
Under the terms of the settlement, GSK pleaded guilty to
Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site
misdemeanour violations of the US Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act related to certain aspects of the marketing of Paxil On 26 October 2010, the Group finalised an agreement with the
for paediatric use and of Wellbutrin for certain uses, and for failure US Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts and the US
to include information about the initiation or status of certain Department of Justice with respect to the investigation of the
Avandia studies in periodic and annual reports submitted to the Group’s former manufacturing facility in Cidra, Puerto Rico. Under
FDA. Additionally, as part of the agreement, the Group entered into the agreement and as a comprehensive settlement of pending
a Corporate Integrity Agreement (‘CIA’) with the Office of Inspector claims against the Group arising from the investigation, the Group
General (‘OIG’) of the US Department of Health and Human paid a total of $750 million (£500 million) to resolve all civil and
Services. The CIA also covers a portion of GSK’s manufacturing criminal allegations, and SB Pharmco Puerto Rico, Inc., a subsidiary
operations related to the Group’s settlement in 2010 of events of the Group, pleaded guilty to certain charges. The CIA with the
in the early 2000s at the Group’s former manufacturing facility US Government entered into in July 2012 covers a portion of the
in Cidra, Puerto Rico. manufacturing operations and compliance matters related to the
To date, 44 states and the District of Columbia have agreed to join Group’s 2010 settlement of this investigation.
the federal settlement agreement and receive all or a portion of
HIV division enquiry
their share of the settlement payment under the agreement.
On 26 July 2010, the Group received a subpoena from the Eastern
Avandia-related matters
District of New York’s US Attorney’s Office regarding sales and
As noted above, on 2 July 2012, the Group reached agreement marketing practices for three HIV products, as well as educational
with the US Government, a number of states, and the District of programmes, grants or payments to physicians regarding any drug
Columbia to resolve the federal government’s Avandia investigation. used to treat HIV-infected adults. On 5 September 2012, the
The settlement resolved claims under federal/state Medicaid Group was advised that the US Government had concluded its
programs. On 15 November 2012, the Group agreed to pay investigation and declined to intervene in a qui tam lawsuit filed in
$90 million to settle claims by 37 states and the District of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Columbia under state consumer protection laws regarding On 14 February 2013, the Group moved to dismiss the lawsuit.
the marketing and promotion of Avandia.
The Attorneys General Offices of the states of Kentucky, Louisiana,
Maryland, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Carolina, Utah, and West
Virginia have each filed suit against the Group asserting various
statutory and common law claims relating to the development and
marketing of Avandia and, with regard to the state of Louisiana,
other of the Group’s products. The Group is also defending an
action by the County of Santa Clara, California, which was brought
under California’s consumer protection laws seeking civil penalties
and restitution.GSK Annual Report 2012 215
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
44 Legal proceedings continued EU sector enquiry
On 17 January 2011, the European Commission requested
Nominal pricing
information from the Group and a number of other pharmaceutical
In May, 2004, the Group was advised by the US Department of companies relating to patent settlement agreements affecting
Justice that it was investigating certain of the Group’s nominal European Union and European Economic Area markets. The request
pricing and bundled sale arrangements under the nominal price for information was the second monitoring exercise by the
exception to the best price reporting requirements of the Medicaid Commission of patent settlement agreements in the pharmaceuticals
Drug Rebate Programme. The Group also received subpoenas sector. The results of the 2011 exercise were published on 6 July
and requests for documents and information from Delaware 2011. On 23 January 2012, the Commission repeated this exercise
and Michigan related to the Group’s nominal price arrangements. (its third patent settlement monitoring exercise). The Group
These matters were resolved as part of the Group’s settlement responded on 3 February 2012. On 22 January 2013, the
agreement with the federal government announced on 2 July 2012. Commission again repeated this exercise and requested information
The Group has not entered into any nominal price arrangements from the Group. The Group responded on 5 February 2013.
since December 2003. No provision has been made for this matter.
Lovaza EU enquiry: Tyverb and Combivir
On 18 April 2011, the Group received a subpoena from the Office of On 17 December 2012, the Group and ViiV Healthcare received a
the Inspector General of the US Department of Health and Human request for information from the European Commission regarding
Services requesting production of documents relating to the Group’s the application of ‘direct to pharmacy’ distribution of the Group’s
marketing and promotion of Lovaza. The Group complied with the product, Tyverb, and ViiV Healthcare’s product, Combivir. The
request and the US Government declined to take any further action Group and ViiV Healthcare have provided the requested
in the investigation. The matter was finally resolved at approximately information. No provision has been made for this matter.
the same time as the Group’s settlement agreement with the federal
UK Office of Fair Trading Competition Act investigation
government announced on 2 July 2012.
On 12 August 2011, the UK Office of Fair Trading (‘OFT’) launched
Paxil/Seroxat
a formal investigation of the Group and other pharmaceutical
In 2004, the Group settled a lawsuit filed by the New York State companies for potential infringement of the Competition Act. The
Attorney General’s office alleging that the Group failed to disclose investigation focuses on whether: (i) litigation settlements between
data on the use of Paxil in children and adolescents. In 2007 and the Group and potential suppliers of generic paroxetine
2008, the Group made class settlements of lawsuits brought by formulations, entered between 2001 and 2003, had as their object
consumers and third-party payers, respectively, for economic or effect the prevention, restriction, or distortion of competition in
damages allegedly resulting from prescriptions of Paxil to children the UK, and (ii) the Group has infringed its dominant position by
and adolescents. The Group denied liability in these settlements. making payments to potential suppliers of generic paroxetine with
In 2010, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a similar purported class the aim of restricting the development of full generic competition
action filed on behalf of governmental entities that paid for in the UK. The Group terminated the agreements at issue in 2004.
prescriptions of Paxil to minors. There remains a similar purported The OFT investigation covers issues that were also investigated by
class action in Canada seeking economic damages on behalf of the European Commission in 2005 – 2006 in respect of paroxetine
individuals, third party payers and governmental entities that in the European Union, and also in 2008, as part of the European
purchased Paxil for use by patients under the age of 18. Commission Pharmaceutical Sector enquiry. On 2 March 2012, the
Commission announced that it had formally concluded its enquiry
SEC/DOJ FCPA enquiry with no further action. In March 2012, the OFT decided to focus its
investigation on potential anti-competitive aspects of the paroxetine
The US Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’) and the US settlement agreements and dropped the investigation in relation to
Department of Justice initiated an industry-wide enquiry in 2010
potential abuse of dominance. However, in February 2013, the OFT
into whether pharmaceutical companies may have engaged in
decided to re-open the dominance aspects of the matter.
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act relating to the sale
of pharmaceuticals, including in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, The Group is cooperating with the OFT In the investigation. The
Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia. The Group is one Group has provided information and documentation in response to
of the companies that have been asked to respond to this enquiry the OFT’s requests and has held meetings with the OFT in 2011 and
and is cooperating with the SEC and DOJ. No provision has been September 2012 to discuss the matter. In November 2012, the OFT
made for this matter. advised that it will proceed to a Statement of Objection (‘SO’),
to be issued in April 2013, subject to OFT’s final internal review.
Anti-trust/competition No provision has been made for this matter.
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the
expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category
and has included a provision for such matters in the provision for
legal and other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which
the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29,
‘Other provisions’.216 GSK Annual Report 2012
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings continued Commercial and corporate
Where the Group is able to make a reliable estimate of the expected
Wellbutrin SR
financial effect, if any, for the matters discussed in this category, it
In December 2004, January 2005 and February 2005, lawsuits, has included a provision in respect of such matters in the provision
several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the for legal and other disputes as set out in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania No provision has been made for any of the following matters except
against the Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of as indicated below.
Wellbutrin SR. The complaints alleged violations of US anti-trust laws
Securities/ERISA class actions
through sham litigation and fraud on the patent office by the Group
in obtaining and enforcing patents covering Wellbutrin SR. The
Stiefel
complaints followed the introduction of generic competition to
Wellbutrin SR in April 2004, after district and appellate court rulings On 6 July 2009, a class action suit brought on behalf of current and
that a generic manufacturer did not infringe the Group’s patents. former employees of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. (‘Stiefel’) was filed in
the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida.
On 21 November 2011, the District Court approved the Group’s
The complaint alleges that Stiefel and its officers and directors
settlement with the certified class of direct purchasers and the
violated US Employee Retirement Income Security Act (‘ERISA’)
settlement has been concluded. On 11 January 2012, the Group
and federal and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees
reached agreement in principle to settle the claims of all the indirect
to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a
purchasers for $21.5 million. Hearing on final approval of the
greatly undervalued price and without disclosing to employees
settlement by the District Court is scheduled for 27 June 2013.
that Stiefel was about to be sold to the Group. On 21 July 2011,
Wellbutrin XL the District Court denied plaintiffs’ motion for class certification.
In October 2011, the District Court granted the defendants’
Actions have been filed against Biovail Corporation (‘Biovail’) and motions for summary judgment, dismissing all but one of the
the Group in the United States District Court for the Eastern District remaining plaintiffs in the litigation. Trial of claims of that one
of Pennsylvania by purported classes of direct and indirect plaintiff, Timothy Finnerty, took place in May 2012 and resulted
purchasers who allege unlawful monopolisation and other anti-trust in a $1.5 million jury verdict in favour of Mr. Finnerty on his
violations related to the enforcement of Biovail’s Wellbutrin XL securities claims. The Group has appealed the verdict.
patents and the filing, by Biovail, of citizen petitions. Both direct Separately, the Group has settled Mr. Finnerty’s ERISA claims.
and indirect purchaser classes have been certified. The District
Five separate lawsuits against Stiefel and Charles Stiefel, the former
Court granted the Group’s motion for partial summary judgement
CEO of Stiefel, also have been filed by individual, former Stiefel
primarily on immunity grounds. On 7 November 2012, the District
employees. Each case asserts claims similar to those contained in
Court also granted the Group’s motion for a stay of all proceedings
the class action. These lawsuits are pending in federal court in
(except for a limited amount of ongoing discovery) in light of the US
Florida and Georgia.
Supreme Court’s grant of a petition in the FTC v. Watson ’reverse
payment’ patent litigation case. On 12 December 2011, the US Securities and Exchange Commission
(‘SEC’) filed a formal complaint against Stiefel and Charles Stiefel
Flonase
in the United States District Court for the District of Florida alleging
Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions were filed that Stiefel and its principals violated federal securities laws by
in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of inducing Stiefel employees to sell their shares in the employee
Pennsylvania alleging the Group illegally maintained monopoly stock plan back to the company at a greatly undervalued price
power in the ‘market’ for Flonase and charged plaintiffs and without disclosing to employees that the company was about
supracompetitive prices. Additionally, a suit was filed by Roxane to be sold. A trial date has not yet been scheduled. The Group has
Laboratories, Inc., a generic competitor, seeking lost profits from made a provision for the Stiefel litigation.
the Group’s alleged actions unlawfully delaying Roxane’s entry into
Avandia ERISA litigation
the market. The predicate for all of these allegations was the filing
by the Group of allegedly sham citizen petitions and subsequent A putative class action suit was filed against the Group on
litigation. On 20 December 2012, the Group reached agreement 27 August 2010 in the United States District Court for the Southern
to settle the litigation with the direct purchasers for a payment of District of New York. The complaint alleged that the Group and its
$150 million and an agreement to settle with the indirect purchaser officers, directors and certain employees made misleading public
class and other indirect purchasers for a payment of $45 million. statements about Avandia, and that when these alleged ‘misleading
Hearings to approve the class action settlements are scheduled statements’ were exposed, the value of the Group’s stock dropped.
for 3 June 2013. Plaintiff brought suit on behalf of himself and all other participants
in the Group’s retirement plans, claiming that the Group and the
Lamictal
individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties to plan
Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions were filed participants under the Employee Retirement Income Security
in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey Act (‘ERISA’).
alleging that the Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully Plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaint to add allegations
conspired to delay generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in concerning Wellbutrin SR and Paxil and to include additional Group
their being overcharged. A separate count accuses the Group of defendants and individual members of the Group’s benefits
monopolising the market. The motions of the Group and Teva to committees. On 5 May 2011, the District Court dismissed the
dismiss the amended complaint of the purported direct purchaser plaintiffs’ complaint with prejudice. On 8 June 2011, plaintiffs filed
class have been granted. The purported direct purchaser class has an appeal with the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
appealed the decision. The Group also plans to move to have the Circuit. On 4 September 2012, the Court of Appeals ruled in the
purported indirect purchaser class dismissed. Group’s favour, affirming the lower court’s dismissal of the
complaint. The matter has now been concluded.GSK Annual Report 2012 217
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
44 Legal proceedings continued In November 2010, a purported class action was filed against the
Group in the United States District Court for the Northern District
Benlysta securities litigation of New York on behalf of the Group’s pharmaceutical sales
representatives working in New York during the previous six years.
On 10 November 2011, a class action suit was filed in the United The plaintiff makes similar allegations as those set forth in the other
States District Court for the District of Maryland alleging that FLSA cases as well as claims under the New York wage and hour
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (‘HGS’), certain of its individual laws which closely follow the FLSA. In January 2011, a plaintiff filed
officers and directors and the Group made statements about the a similar purported class action in Florida state court alleging that
clinical trials for Benlysta that failed to disclose suicides among trial the Group’s pharmaceutical sales representatives are entitled to
participants, and that, by withholding this information, the overtime under the FLSA. The court issued a stay of most activities
defendants caused HGS’ stock to be artificially inflated, harming in the New York case, and the parties agreed to ask the court to stay
anyone who purchased HGS stock at the inflated price. In November all activities in the Florida case until the United States Supreme Court
2011, a second action was filed in the same federal court. The two has decided the applicability of the outside sales exemption to
cases have been combined. In May, 2012, the Group and HGS filed pharmaceutical sales representatives. Now that the United States
motions to dismiss the suits. Oral argument was heard in September Supreme Court has found in favour of the Group and determined
2012. The Court’s ruling is awaited. that pharmaceutical sales representatives are exempt from overtime
under the FLSA, all of the wage and hour lawsuits described above
Wage and hour claims
(Arizona, California, Florida, and New York) have been dismissed
In December 2006, two purported class actions were filed against without any payment to the plaintiffs.
the Group on behalf of all of the Group’s US pharmaceutical sales
Environmental matters
representatives. These actions, which were filed in or transferred to
the United States District Court for the Central District of California, The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating
initially alleged that those representatives are not ‘exempt’ to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain
employees under California law and/or the US Fair Labor Standards sites, primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the subject
Act (‘FLSA’) and, consequently, are entitled to overtime pay, among of litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or
other things. Plaintiffs subsequently amended their complaints state governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and
to assert a class action, limited solely to pharmaceutical sales tort actions brought by private parties.
representatives working in California, and only asserting claims
The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party under California’s wage and hour laws.
at approximately 23 sites, of which 12 appear on the National
The Group moved for summary judgment dismissing the claims Priority List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
of the putative class representatives on the ground that they were Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). These proceedings
exempt employees. Because of appeals pending in the United States seek to require the operators of hazardous waste facilities,
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in cases involving other transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous
manufacturers with virtually the same factual and legal arguments, waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse
the District Court deferred ruling on the summary judgment motion the US Government for cleanup costs. In most instances, the
and stayed any further activity in the case until the appellate court Group is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste.
ruled in at least one of the other companies’ pending cases. The
Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and
Ninth Circuit deferred ruling on the other companies’ pending cases
severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are frequently
until the California Supreme Court issued an opinion in a case
resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed
addressing the application of the administrative exemption under
of by the generator at the site. The Group’s proportionate liability California state law. In January 2012, the California Supreme Court
for cleanup costs has been substantially determined for about
issued a ruling in the case, requesting briefing about the effect of
19 of the sites referred to above.
the ruling of the California Supreme Court on the other companies’
pending pharmaceutical sales representative cases. The Group’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such
A third case, filed in the United States District Court for the District
sites could, over time, be substantial, the Group routinely accrues of Arizona in August 2008, sought to establish a nationwide
amounts related to its share of the liability for such matters.
collective action on behalf of all of the Group’s US pharmaceutical
sales representatives on the ground that those representatives were
not exempt employees under the FLSA.
In November 2009, the District Court granted the Group’s motion
for summary judgment and dismissed the lawsuit on the ground
that the sales representatives were ‘exempt’ employees under the
outside sales exemption to the FLSA. Plaintiffs appealed the decision
to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. On
14 February 2011, the Ninth Circuit issued an opinion in favour of
the Group affirming the judgment of the United States District
Court for the District of Arizona and finding that the Group’s
pharmaceutical sales representatives are exempt employees under
the outside sales exemption to the FLSA and, therefore, not entitled
to overtime pay. Plaintiffs filed a petition seeking review of the
decision by the United States Supreme Court. On 28 June 2012,
the United States Supreme Court affirmed the decision of the
Ninth Circuit.218 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared under UK GAAP
Directors’ statement of responsibilities Disclosure of information to auditors
in relation to the company’s financial
The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each
statements confirmed that:
(cid:115)(cid:0) so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company,
information of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration
Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations. (cid:115)(cid:0) he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s
for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have elected
auditors are aware of that information.
to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance
with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Under with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
company law the Directors must not approve the parent company
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true Going concern basis
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for that period.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational
required to: existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
(cid:115)(cid:0) select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
consistently; The UK Corporate Governance Code
(cid:115)(cid:0) make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
and prudent; and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code maintained
(cid:115)(cid:0) state with regard to the parent company financial statements by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in the Corporate
that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Governance section on pages 94 to 108, and has complied with its
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in provisions. As required by the Financial Services Authority’s Listing
the parent company financial statements. Rules, the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of
compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Governance Code which are specified for their review.
that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s transactions and
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of
the company and to enable them to ensure that the parent company Sir Christopher Gent
financial statements and Remuneration Report comply with the Chairman
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the 5 March 2013
assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The parent company financial statements for the year ended
31 December 2012, comprising the balance sheet for the year ended
31 December 2012 and supporting notes, are set out on pages 220
to 223 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent company
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report
on page 219.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 are
included in the Annual Report, which is published in hard-copy printed
form and made available on our website. The Directors are responsible
for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on our website
in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements. Access to the website is available
from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
The Strategic review and Financial review and risk sections of the
Annual Report include a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the company and
the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the
principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.GSK Annual Report 2012 219
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Independent Auditors’ report
Independent Auditors’ report Opinion on other matters prescribed by the
Companies Act 2006
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
In our opinion:
We have audited the parent company financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which (cid:115)(cid:0) the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has
comprise the Company balance sheet – UK GAAP and the related been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
notes A-H. The financial reporting framework that has been 2006; and
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
(cid:115)(cid:0) the information given in the Directors’ Report for the financial year
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is
Accounting Practice).
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors
Matters on which we are required to report
As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of responsibilities by exception
set out on page 218, the directors are responsible for the
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where
preparation of the parent company financial statements and for
the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility opinion:
is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and International (cid:115)(cid:0) adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards received from branches not visited by us; or
for Auditors.
(cid:115)(cid:0) the parent company financial statements and the part of the
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
(cid:115)(cid:0) certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility
are not made; or
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly (cid:115)(cid:0) we have not received all the information and explanations we
agreed by our prior consent in writing. require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matters
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material
The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate
name should not be stated.
to the parent company’s circumstances and have been consistently
applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant
accounting estimates made by the directors; and the overall
presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial
London
statements. If we become aware of any apparent material
5 March 2013
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications
for our report.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion the parent company financial statements:
(cid:115)(cid:0) give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs
as at 31 December 2012;
(cid:115)(cid:0) have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
(cid:115)(cid:0) have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006.220 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared under UK GAAP
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP at 31 December 2012
2012 2011
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets – investments D 19,689 19,680
Debtors E 7,872 3,870
Cash at bank 10 19
Current assets 7,882 3,889
Creditors: amounts due within one year F (406) (481)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 7,476 3,408
Net assets 27,165 23,088
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital G 1,349 1,387
Share premium account G 2,022 1,673
Other reserves H 1,393 1,339
Profit and loss account H 22,401 18,689
Equity shareholders’ funds 27,165 23,088
Approved by the Board on 5 March 2013
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792GSK Annual Report 2012 221
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – Expenditure
UK GAAP
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
A) Presentation of the financial statements made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
Description of business estimated.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global
Investments in subsidiary companies
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery,
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines provision for impairment.
and health-related consumer products.
Impairment of investments
Preparation of financial statements
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment when
The financial statements, which are prepared on a going concern there is an indication that the investment might be impaired. Any
basis, are drawn up in accordance with UK Generally Accepted provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to the
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) and with UK accounting income statement in the year concerned.
presentation as at 31 December 2012, with comparative figures
Share based payments as at 31 December 2011. Where appropriate, comparative
figures are reclassified to ensure a consistent presentation with The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over the
current year information. company’s options, represents additional capital contributions by the
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in subsidiaries
profit and loss account of the company is not presented in this results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity. The
Annual Report. additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the grant
issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
Accounting convention and standards
Taxation
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting standards. Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the
Accounting principles and policies balance sheet date.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated
accepted accounting principles requires management to make by reason of timing differences which have originated but not
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable
at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts could differ from against future taxable profits.
those estimates.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and described are expected to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are
in Note B. not discounted.
B) Accounting policies Financial guarantees
Foreign currency transactions Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf
of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and amortised
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate over the life of the guarantee.
ruling on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by
a forward exchange contract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities C) Operating profit
are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date,
A fee of £10,132 (2011 – £11,474) relating to the audit of the
or at the forward rate.
company has been charged in operating profit.
Dividends paid and received
Dividends paid and received are included in the accounts in the
period in which the related dividends are actually paid or received.222 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared under UK GAAP
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP continued
D) Fixed assets – investments
2012 2011
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
18,552 18,552
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 1,137 1,128
19,689 19,680
E) Debtors
2012 2011
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 206 227
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 7,319 3,236
7,525 3,463
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 347 407
7,872 3,870
F) Creditors
2012 2011
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Bank overdraft 10 9
Amounts owed to Group undertakings – 4
Other creditors 396 468
406 481
The company has guaranteed debt issued by one of its subsidiary companies for which it receives an annual fee from the subsidiary.
In aggregate, the company has outstanding guarantees over $10 billion of debt instruments.
The amount due from the subsidiary companies in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and
are disclosed within debtors (see Note E).GSK Annual Report 2012 223
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP continued
G) Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2011 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2012 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2011 5,670,458,177 1,418 1,428
Issued under employee share schemes 21,949,144 5 245
Share capital cancelled (142,204,223) (36) –
At 31 December 2011 5,550,203,098 1,387 1,673
Issued under employee share schemes 28,045,821 7 349
Share capital cancelled (180,652,950) (45) –
At 31 December 2012 5,397,595,969 1,349 2,022
31 December 31 December
2012 2011
000 000
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options 114,985 126,810
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,487,419 4,322,987
At 31 December 2012, of the issued share capital, 75,205,594 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 494,951,327 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,827,439,048 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values
of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
A total of 174 million shares were purchased by the company during 2012 at a cost of £2,493 million and 181 million shares were cancelled.
The company expects to make further share repurchases of £1–2 billion during 2013. The exact amount and timing of further purchases and
whether the shares will be held as Treasury shares or be cancelled will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions
and other factors. No shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2013 to 28 February 2013.
H) Reserves
Other Profit and
reserves loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2011 1,282 10,031 11,313
Profit attributable to shareholders – 14,255 14,255
Dividends to shareholders – (3,406) (3,406)
Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury share 36 (2,191) (2,155)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 21 – 21
At 31 December 2011 1,339 18,689 20,028
Profit attributable to shareholders – 10,019 10,019
Dividends to shareholders – (3,814) (3,814)
Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury share 45 (2,493) (2,448)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 9 – 9
At 31 December 2012 1,393 22,401 23,794
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £10,019 million (2011 – £14,255 million), which after dividends of £3,814 million
(2011 – £3,406 million), gave a retained profit of £6,205 million (2011 – £10,849 million). After the cost of shares purchased and
cancelled or held as Treasury shares of £2,493 million (2011 – £2,191), the profit and loss account reserve at 31 December 2012 stood
at £22,401 million (2011 – £18,689 million), of which £4,096 million is unrealised (2011 – £4,096 million).224 GSK Annual Report 2012
Investor
Product development pipeline 225
Products, competition and
intellectual property 229
Quarterly trend 232
information
Five year record 236
Share capital and share price 239
Dividends 240
Annual General Meeting 2013 241
US law and regulation 242
Tax information for shareholders 243
Analysis of shareholdings 244
Shareholder services and contacts 245
Glossary of terms and index 247
Join the conversation
In 2012 we improved and broadened our
communications channels to inform and engage
with our stakeholders. Find out more by visiting
our new website www.gsk.com or follow us on
twitter @GSK to join the conversation.GSK Annual Report 2012 225
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Pipeline
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key
† In-license or other alliance relationship with third party NDA New Drug Application (USA)
S Month of first submission Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
A Month of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU Phase II D etermination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a
approval letter) small number of patients
BLA Biological License Application Phase III L arge comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe) treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Biopharmaceuticals
1995057 tumour necrosis factor receptor-1 (TNFR1) acute lung injury I
domain antibody
2374697 glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP 1) agonist with obesity I
half-life improving domain antibody
2661380† immunomodulator solid tumours I
3052230† fibroblast growth factor ligand trap cancer I
otelixizumab CD3 monoclonal antibody (s.c. & i.v.) rheumatoid arthritis I
249320 myelin-associated glycoprotein monoclonal stroke II
antibody
2586881† recombinant human angiotensin converting acute lung injury II
enzyme 2
933776 beta amyloid monoclonal antibody geographic retinal atrophy II
1070806 IL18 monoclonal antibody type 2 diabetes II
belimumab B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal idiopathic membranous nephropathy II
antibody (i.v.)
belimumab B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal myaesthenia gravis II
antibody (i.v.)
mapatumumab tumor necrosis factor–related apoptosis- advanced hepatocellular carcinoma II
inducing ligand receptor 1 (TRAIL-R1)
monoclonal antibody
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody nasal polyposis II
ofatumumab† CD20 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) multiple sclerosis II
ozanezumab (1223249) neurite outgrowth inhibitor (NOGO-A) amyotrophic lateral sclerosis II
monoclonal antibody
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy III
& use in relapsed patients
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody diffuse large B cell lymphoma (relapsed patients) III
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody follicular lymphoma (refractory & relapsed patients) III
Benlysta (belimumab) B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus III
antibody (s.c.)
Benlysta (belimumab) B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal vasculitis III
antibody (i.v.)
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody severe asthma III
sirukumab† IL6 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) rheumatoid arthritis III
albiglutide GLP 1 agonist type 2 diabetes Submitted S: Jan13
raxibacumab protective antigen inhibitor inhalation anthrax Approved A: Dec12
Cardiovascular & Metabolic
1614235† + 2330672 sodium dependent glucose transport type 2 diabetes I
(SGLT1) inhibitor + ileal bile acid
transport (iBAT) inhibitor
2849466 selective androgen receptor modulator heart failure I
2890457 endogenous gut peptide stimulator obesity I
1278863 prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor anaemia associated with chronic renal disease II
camicinal (962040) motilin receptor agonist delayed gastric emptying II
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor acute coronary syndrome (also COPD) II
retosiban oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour II
ronacaleret† calcium receptor antagonist allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell mobilisation II
darapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis (also diabetic macular oedema) III
Immuno-inflammation
2245840 SIRT1 activator psoriasis II
2586184† Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor systemic lupus erythematosus & psoriasis II
2941266† CCR1 chemokine receptor antagonist rheumatoid arthritis II
vercirnon (1605786)† CCR9 chemokine receptor antagonist Crohn's disease III226 GSK Annual Report 2012
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Infectious Diseases
2140944 type 2 topoisomerase inhibitor bacterial infections I
2696266† cephalosporin bacterial infections I
1322322 polypeptide deformylase inhibitor bacterial infections II
2336805† hepatitis C virus inhibitor hepatitis C II
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria II
Relenza i.v. (zanamivir)† neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) influenza III
Neurosciences
356278 phoshodiesterase 4 inhibitor Huntington's disease I
2647544 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor Alzheimer's disease I
239512 H3 receptor antagonist multiple sclerosis II
742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II
firategrast† dual alpha 4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis II
rilapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor Alzheimer's disease II
Patrome (IPX066)† dopamine precursor + DOPA decarboxylase Parkinson's disease III N/A
inhibitor
Oncology
525762 bromodomain inhibitor NUT gene midline carcinoma I
2110183 AKT protein kinase inhibitor multiple myeloma I
2256098 focal adhesion kinase inhibitor cancer I
2636771 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor cancer I
trametinib† + 2141795 MEK1/2 inhibitor + AKT protein kinase cancer I
inhibitor
2110183 AKT protein kinase inhibitor Langerhan cell histiocytosis II
2110183 AKT protein kinase inhibitor ovarian cancer II
dabrafenib BRAF protein kinase inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer II
foretinib† mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor cancer II
(C-met) kinase inhibitor
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist acute myeloid leukaemia II
(eltrombopag)†
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist aplastic anaemia II
(eltrombopag)†
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist myelodysplastic syndromes II
(eltrombopag)†
trametinib† MEK1/2 inhibitor KRAS mutant non-small cell lung cancer, second II
line therapy
trametinib† + dabrafenib MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein kinase colorectal cancer II
inhibitor
trametinib† + dabrafenib MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein kinase metastatic melanoma, adjuvant therapy III
inhibitor
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) human epidermal growth factor breast cancer, adjuvant therapy III
receptor-2 (Her2) and epidermal growth
factor receptor (EGFR) dual kinase inhibitor
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor gastric cancer III
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinoma III
(resectable disease)
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy III
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor renal cell cancer, adjuvant therapy III
dabrafenib BRAF protein kinase inhibitor metastatic melanoma Submitted S: Jul12 S: Jul12
trametinib† MEK1/2 inhibitor metastatic melanoma Submitted S: Feb13 S: Aug12
trametinib† + dabrafenib MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein kinase metastatic melanoma Submitted S: Feb13
inhibitor
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor metastatic breast cancer, in combination with Submitted S: Feb12
trastuzumab
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor sarcoma Approved A: Aug12 A: Apr12
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia Approved S: May12 A: Nov12
(eltrombopag)†
Ophthalmology
darapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor diabetic macular oedema (also atherosclerosis) IIGSK Annual Report 2012 227
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Respiratory
1325756 CXCR2 chemokine receptor antagonist COPD I
2256294 soluble epoxide hydrolase inhibitor COPD I
2269557 phosphoinositide 3 kinase inhibitor asthma & COPD I
2339345 sodium channel blocker cough I
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting beta2 COPD I
(685698) + vilanterol† + agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine
umeclidinium (573719) antagonist
961081† muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD II
2190915† 5-lipoxygenase-activating protein (FLAP) asthma II
inhibitor
2245035 toll-like receptor 7 agonist asthma II
dilmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor (i.v.) acute lung injury & acute respiratory distress syndrome II
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist + muscarinic asthma II
(685698) + acetylcholine antagonist
umeclidinium (573719)
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also acute coronary syndrome) II
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist asthma III
(685698)
Relvar/Breo long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid COPD – mortality outcomes III
(vilanterol† + agonist
fluticasone furoate)
umeclidinium (573719) muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD III
vilanterol† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD III
Relvar/Breo long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid asthma Submitted S: Jun12
(vilanterol† + agonist
fluticasone furoate)
Relvar/Breo long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid COPD Submitted S: Jun12 S: Jul12
(vilanterol† + agonist
fluticasone furoate)
Anoro (umeclidinium + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist + COPD Submitted S: Jan13 S: Dec12
vilanterol†) long-acting beta2 agonist
Paediatric Vaccines
S. pneumoniae paediatric recombinant – conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis II
next generation†
MMR live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis III (USA) A: Nov97
Mosquirix (Malaria RTS,S)† recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) III N/A
MenHibrix (Hib-MenCY-TT)conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y & Haemophilus Approved N/A A: Jun12
influenzae type b disease prophylaxis
Nimenrix (MenACWY-TT) conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis Approved A: Apr12
(II, USA)
Other Vaccines
HIV† recombinant HIV disease prophylaxis I
NTHi† recombinant non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae prophylaxis I
Staphylococcus Aureus recombinant – conjugated Staphylococcus aureus prophylaxis I
HIV† recombinant HIV disease immunotherapy II
Tuberculosis† recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
Zoster† recombinant Herpes Zoster prophylaxis III
Flu (pre-) pandemic H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent (Quebec) pre-pandemic & pandemic influenza prophylaxis Submitted N/A S: Feb12
Flu vaccine inactivated split – quadrivalent seasonal influenza prophylaxis Approved S: Mar12 A: Dec12
Antigen-Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic
PRAME recombinant treatment of resectable non-small cell lung cancer I
immunotherapeutic†
WT1 recombinant treatment of breast cancer I
immunotherapeutic
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of bladder cancer II
immunotherapeutic†
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of melanoma III
immunotherapeutic†
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer III
immunotherapeutic†228 GSK Annual Report 2012
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Rare Diseases
migalastat HCl† + ERT pharmacological chaperone + enzyme Fabry disease II
replacement therapy (ERT)
drisapersen (2402968)† antisense oligonucleotide Duchenne muscular dystrophy III
2696273† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy adenosine deaminase severe combined immune III
deficiency (ADA-SCID)
migalastat HCl† pharmacological chaperone Fabry disease III
Stiefel (late-stage assets only)
2894512† non-steroidal anti-inflammatory atopic dermatitis II
alitretinoin† retinoic acid receptor modulator chronic hand eczema III N/A
Duac low dose clindamycin/benzoyl peroxide gel acne vulgaris Submitted S: Nov11 S: Nov10
Fabior (tazarotene foam) retinoid foam acne vulgaris Approved N/A A: May12
Sorilux vitamin D3 analog scalp psoriasis Approved N/A A: Sep12
HIV (ViiV Healthcare)
1265744 HIV integrase inhibitor (long-acting HIV infections II
parenteral formulation)
dolutegravir + abacavir HIV integrase inhibitor + reverse transcriptase HIV infections III
sulphate + lamivudine inhibitors (fixed dose combination)
dolutegravir HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections Submitted S: Dec12 S: Dec12
Brand names appearing in italics are trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies.
Option-based alliances with third parties that include assets in Phase I or later development:
Company Disease Area Phase
Cancer Research UK cancer I
ChemoCentryx inflammatory disease II*
Dynavax Technologies cutaneous & systemic lupus erythematosus II
ISIS Pharmaceuticals transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis II/III
OncoMed Pharmaceuticals oncology I**
Prosensa Therapeutics neuroscience II
Ranbaxy Laboratories respiratory II
Telethon Institute for Gene Therapy stem cell gene therapy II**
Affiris Alzheimer’s disease treatment vaccine II
* CCX168
** Two assetsGSK Annual Report 2012 229
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
Respiratory
Veramyst fluticasone propionate rhinitis Nasonex 2021 2023
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair expired expired
(compound) (compound)
2016 expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2013-2025 2017
(HFA-device/ (HFA-device/
formulation) formulation)
Seretide/Advair* salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Singulair, Symbicort, expired 20131
fluticasone propionate Spiriva, Onbrez, (combination) (combination)
Pulmicort, Foster 2016 expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2013-2025 2017
(HFA-device/ (HFA-device/
formulation) formulation)
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma/COPD Foradil, Spiriva, expired expired
Onbrez (compound) (compound)
2016 expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2019
(HFA-device/
formulation)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2015-2025 2012-2017
(HFA-device/ (HFA-device/
formulation) formulation)
Anti-virals
Relenza zanamivir influenza Tamiflu 2013 2014
(July)
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir expired expired
shingles
Zeffix/Epivir-HBV lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera 2014 expired
(use) (use)
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Requip XL ropinirole Parkinson’s disease Mirapex expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
anxiety disorders Lexapro
Treximet sumatriptan and naproxen migraine Zomig, Maxalt, 2017 NA
Relpax (combination
and use)
Wellbutrin bupropion depression Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
Lexapro
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Arixtra fondaparinux deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin, expired expired
pulmonary embolism Innohep
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, 20151 2017
finasteride
Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erychematosus 2023 2021
Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 2016† NA
hypertension, left ventricular (formulation)
dysfunction post MI
Fraxiparine nadroparin deep vein thrombosis, Lovenox, Fragmin, expired expired
pulmonary embolism Innohep
* See Outlook on page 15 for details of uncertainty on the timing of follow-on competition.
† Generic competition possible in 2013.230 GSK Annual Report 2012
Investor information
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
Lovaza omega-3 acid ethyl esters very high triglycerides Tricor 20171 NA
(formulation)
Volibris ambrisentan pulmonary hypertension Tracleer, Revatio NA 2020
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
Oncology
Arzerra ofatumumab refractory chronic MabThera/Rituxan pending 2023
lymphocytic leukaemia
Hycamtin topotecan ovarian cancer, small cell Doxil, Gemzar expired expired
lung cancer, cervical cancer
Promacta/ eltrombopag idiopathic thrombocytopenic Nplate 2021 2021
Revolade purpura
Tykerb/Tyverb lapatanib advanced and metastatic Herceptin 2020 2023
breast cancer in HER2
positive patients
Votrient pazopanib soft tissue sarcoma Yondelis, Sutent, 2021 2021
metastatic renal cell Nexavar, Afinitor
carcinoma
Vaccines
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular booster vaccination Adacel 2017 2017
pertussis
Infanrix/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentacel, Pediacel, 2017 2014
polio, hepatitis B (HepB), polio, hepatitis B (HepB) Pentaxim, Pentavac
inactivated antigens
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like particles human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2020 2020
(VLPs), AS04 adjuvant (MPL + type 16 and 18
aluminium hydroxide)
Fluarix split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
subtypes A and type B antigens Fluzone, Influvac,
Aggripal, Fluad
FluLaval split inactivated influenza virus seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, none none
subtypes A and type B antigens Fluzone, Influvac,
Aggripal, Fluad
Pandemrix derived split inactivated A(H1N1)v2009 influenza Focetria, Celvapan, 2014 2014
influenza virus antigen, prophylaxis emerflu
AS03 adjuvant
Prepandrix derived split inactivated influenza prophylaxis Aflunov 2014 2014
influenza virus antigen,
AS03 adjuvant
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal invasive pneumococcal Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2021
polysaccharide disease
HIV
Combivir lamivudine and zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired expired
(combination) (combination)
Epivir lamivudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired expired
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161 2019
(combination) (combination)
Lexiva fosamprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, 20171 2019
Reyataz
Selzentry maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2021 2022
Prezista
Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161 2016
and abacavir (combination) (combination)
1 See Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.GSK Annual Report 2012 231
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Total wellness
Panadol tablets, caplets, infant drops paracetamol-based treatment global except USA Reckitt-Benckiser’s Nurofen
of headache and joint pain,
fever, cold symptoms
NicoDerm, gum, patch, mini lozenge, treatment of nicotine global Novartis’ Nicotinell
NiQuitin CQ, original lozenge withdrawal as an aid to Nicorette in Europe
and Nicabate. quitting smoking retailers’ own brands
Also Nicorette
(US only)
ENO effervescent and rapid relief antacid global Hypermarcas’ Estomazil
Tums chewable tablets Pfizer’s Gelusil
Sanofi’s Rolaids
Johnson & Johnson’s Mylanta
Oral care
Sensodyne toothpastes, toothbrushes prevention of dental global Colgate-Palmolive’s
mouthwashes sensitivity Colgate Pro Relief
Polident denture adhesive, denture improve comfort of global none
Poligrip cleanser fitted dentures and to
Corega clean dentures
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes prevention of caries, gum global Colgate-Palmolive’s Colgate
mouthwashes disease and bad breath Procter & Gamble’s Crest
and Oral-B
Parodontax toothpastes, mouthwashes help stop bleeding gums global Colgate-Palmolives’s
gum health Colgate Pro-Gum
Nutrition
Lucozade energy and sports drinks energy and hydration UK, Ireland, Pepsico’s Gatorade
Africa Coca-Cola’s Powerade
Red Bull
Horlicks malted, milk-based drinks nutrition UK, Ireland, India Mondelez’s Bournvita
and foods Nestle’s Milo
Maxinutrition sports nutrition, protein nutrition UK Myprotein
powder, bars Optimum Nutrition
Skin health
Physiogel moisturising, creams, face and body care for dry, Germany, France, Italy, L’Oreal’s La Roche Posay
lotions and cleansers sensitive and irritated skin Poland, Spain Beiersdorf’s Eucerin
Pierre Fabre’s Avene
Oilatum emollient bath and creams, soothing treatment for eczema UK, Poland, Reckitt-Benckiser’s E45
shampoo and dry skin conditions other markets Sanofi’s Emolium232 GSK Annual Report 2012
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2012.
Income statement – total 12 months 2012 Q4 2012
£m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 21,321 (2) (4) 5,553 – (2)
– Consumer Healthcare 5,110 – (3) 1,249 – (3)
Total turnover 26,431 (1) (3) 6,802 – (3)
Cost of sales (7,894) 6 3 (2,011) 6 3
Selling, general and administration (8,739) 4 3 (2,198 3 1
Research and development (3,968) (1) (1) (1,141) 5 4
Royalty income 306 – (1) 76 (16) (16)
Other operating income 1,256 412
Operating profit 7,392 (3) (5) 1,940 7 3
Net finance costs (729) (199)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 29 10
Profit before taxation 6,692 (11) (13) 1,751 8 3
Taxation (1,948) (912)
Tax rate % 29.1% 52.1%
Profit after taxation for the period 4,744 (11) (13) 839 (30) (35)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 179 (25)
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,565 864
Basic earnings per share (pence) 92.9p (9) (11) 17.8p (24) (29)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 91.5p 17.6p
Income statement – core
Total turnover 26,431 (1) (3) 6,802 – (3)
Cost of sales (7,078) 1 (2) (1,830) – (2)
Selling, general and administration (7,855) – (1) (1,927) 2 –
Research and development (3,474) (5) (6) (834) (15) (16)
Royalty income 306 – (1) 76 (15) (16)
Operating profit 8,330 (3) (5) 2,287 5 1
Net finance costs (724) (194)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 29 10
Profit before taxation 7,635 (4) (6) 2,103 5 1
Taxation (1,864) (468)
Tax rate % 24.4% 22.3%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,771 (2) (4) 1,635 7 3
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 235 58
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,536 1,577
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 112.7p – (2) 32.6p 9 4
The calculation of core results is described on page 56.GSK Annual Report 2012 233
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Q3 2012 Q2 2012 Q1 2012
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
5,259 (6) (9) 5,205 (3) (4) 5,304 2 1
1,268 (2) (6) 1,257 – (3) 1,336 1 –
6,527 (5) (8) 6,462 (2) (4) 6,640 2 1
(2,081) 5 – (1,992) 18 14 (1,810) (1) (3)
(2,224) 13 10 (2,187) (1) – (2,130) 1 2
(934) (4) (5) (922) (10) (9) (971) 6 6
92 12 8 66 6 6 72 (4) –
299 309 236
1,679 (18) (21) 1,736 (1) (2) 2,037 2 –
(178) (184) (168)
9 – 10
1,510 (20) (22) 1,552 (1) (3) 1,879 (22) (24)
(314) (233) (489)
20.8% 15.0% 26.0%
1,196 (15) (17) 1,319 16 15 1,390 (11) (12)
74 65 65
1,122 1,254 1,325
22.9p (14) (17) 25.4p 17 17 26.7p (10) (11)
22.6p 25.1p 26.3p
6,527 (5) (8) 6,462 (2) (4) 6,640 2 1
(1,847) (2) (7) (1,690) 8 4 (1,711) (2) (4)
(1,934) 2 (1) (1,956) (4) (6) (2,038) 2 3
(868) (5) (6) (880) (3) (3) (892) 4 4
92 12 8 66 6 6 72 – –
1,970 (13) (15) 2,002 (7) (8) 2,071 3 1
(178) (184) (168)
9 – 10
1,801 (14) (16) 1,818 (7) (8) 1,913 3 1
(437) (464) (495)
24.3% 25.5% 25.9%
1,364 (12) (15) 1,354 (6) (7) 1,418 5 3
64 48 65
1,300 1,306 1,353
26.5p (11) (13) 26.4p (5) (5) 27.3p 7 5234 GSK Annual Report 2012
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area 2012
Total USA Europe EMAP Rest of World
2011
Therapeutic area/ 2012 (restated) Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 7,291 7,298 1 – 3,388 1 3 1,906 (5) (10) 858 13 10 1,139 3 3
Avamys/Veramyst 246 241 5 2 59 (6) (5) 62 2 (5) 63 24 17 62 2 3
Flixonase/Flonase 133 138 (3) (4) 14 100 100 32 (11) (14) 57 14 16 30 (31) (33)
Flixotide/Flovent 779 813 (4) (4) 448 (1) – 122 (15) (19) 55 8 6 154 (6) (6)
Seretide/Advair 5,046 5,061 1 – 2,533 1 2 1,447 (4) (8) 417 12 10 649 3 4
Serevent 145 182 (19) (20) 51 (19) (18) 64 (22) (25) 3 – – 27 (13) (16)
Ventolin 631 602 6 5 277 14 16 126 (6) (11) 171 10 7 57 (8) (8
Xyzal 129 64 100 >100 – – – – – – 16 – – 113 >100 >100
Zyrtec 81 96 (16) (16) – – – – – – 36 28 24 45 (34) (33)
Other 101 101 6 – 6 (33) (33) 53 4 (5) 40 16 8 2 (100) (100
Anti-virals 753 842 (11) (11) 57 (42) (41) 74 (23) (27) 360 2 3 262 (12) (12)
Hepsera 126 127 (2) (1) – – – – – – 95 (3) (1) 31 – –
Zovirax 89 339 (16) (18) 3 (73) (73) 21 (19) (22) 35 (3) (5) 30 (9) (12)
Valtrex 252 109 (25) (26) 35 (51) (51) 33 (27) (31) 37 – (3) 147 (19) (19)
Zeffix 243 237 – 3 15 27 36 16 (29) (33) 188 3 7 24 (4) (8)
Other 43 30 37 43 4 100 100 4 100 100 5 >100 >100 30 12 20
Central nervous
system 1,670 1,721 (2) (3) 510 6 8 386 (15) (20) 329 8 6 445 (3) (2)
Imigran/Imitrex 190 210 (8) (10) 72 (13) (12) 67 (4) (9) 7 – – 44 (6) (6)
Lamictal 610 536 14 14 332 18 20 112 (9) (15) 75 7 6 91 58 60
Requip 164 218 (22) (25) 19 (55) (55) 76 (29) (33) 14 25 17 55 8 8
Seroxat/Paxil 374 435 (14) (14) (1) 100 67 57 (9) (14) 84 (5) (5) 234 (19) (18)
Treximet 49 57 (14) (14) 49 (16) (14) – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin 84 85 4 (1) 12 (25) (25) 44 4 (2) 28 26 22 – – –
Other 199 180 13 11 27 >100 >100 30 (39) (41) 121 15 10 21 31 31
Cardiovascular
and urogenital 2,431 2,454 – (1) 1,461 (5) (4) 504 1 (6) 292 18 16 174 23 23
Arixtra 195 276 (27) (29) 68 (54) (54) 91 – (6) 28 33 33 8 (27) (27)
Avodart 790 748 7 6 317 (5) (4) 228 9 2 84 26 22 161 28 29
Coreg 133 155 (15) (14) 132 (15) (14) – – – – – – 1 – –
Fraxiparine 233 234 4 – – – – 145 (4) (10) 87 26 24 1 (50) (50)
Lovaza 607 569 5 7 604 5 7 – – – – – – 3 – 50
Vesicare 175 126 37 39 174 37 38 – – – 1 – – – – –
Other 298 346 (13) (14) 166 (20) (18) 40 (17) (23) 92 1 1 – – –
Metabolic 171 331 (47) (48) (12) – – 29 (49) (52) 65 10 3 89 (24) (24)
Avandia products 6 123 (94) (95) (12) – – – – – 12 (33) (33) 6 (59) (65)
Other 165 208 (18) (21) – – – 29 (52) (55) 53 27 18 83 (18) (17)
Anti-bacterials 1,247 1,390 (7) (10) 20 (63) (63) 403 (17) (21) 735 5 2 89 (12) (11)
Augmentin 608 641 (1) (5) 1 – – 202 (13) (19) 367 8 4 38 (10) (7)
Other 639 749 (12) (15) 19 (65) (65) 201 (20) (24) 368 2 (1) 51 (14) (14)
Oncology and 798 683 19 17 321 18 20 256 11 4 131 48 42 90 15 15
emesis
Arzerra 60 44 36 36 38 23 23 21 83 75 – – – 1 (100) –
Promacta 130 75 76 73 54 66 69 36 65 57 12 >100 >100 28 87 87
Tyverb/Tykerb 239 231 6 3 68 5 6 87 (5) (10) 54 36 29 30 7 7
Votrient 183 100 88 83 91 59 63 66 89 78 22 >100 >100 4 – –
Other 186 233 (19) (20) 70 (18) (18) 46 (34) (39) 43 11 13 27 (21) (21)
Dermatology 850 898 (2) (5) 228 (14) (13) 156 5 – 388 7 1 78 (19) (19)
Bactroban 124 123 3 1 51 (2) – 26 – (7) 39 17 11 8 (11) (11)
Duac 87 109 (19) (20) 38 (38) (37) 24 4 – 13 8 – 12 – –
Other* 639 666 – (4) 139 (9) (9) 106 6 1 336 6 1 58 (23) (23)
Rare diseases 495 463 8 7 117 10 11 123 (6) (12) 48 20 17 207 16 16
Flolan 135 97 (25) (25) 33 (14) (11) 23 (42) (47) – – – 79 (21) (20)
Volibris 127 179 35 31 – – – 73 12 6 9 80 80 45 96 96
Other 233 187 26 25 84 22 24 27 4 – 39 11 8 83 50 48
Immuno-
inflammation 70 15 >100 >100 65 >100 >100 4 >100 >100 – – – 1 – –
Benlysta 70 15 >100 >100 65 >100 >100 4 >100 >100 – – – 1 – –
Other
pharmaceuticals 846 951 (6) (11) 19 25 19 180 (23) (32) 423 (2) (7) 224 3 4
Vaccines 3,325 3,497 (2) (5) 826 – 1 980 (4) (10) 1,107 14 9 412 (29) (29)
Boostrix 238 192 25 24 147 35 36 53 17 10 16 78 78 22 (19) (19)
Cervarix 270 506 (46) (47) 6 (25) (25) 53 (2) (9) 75 (19) (20) 136 (61) (61)
Fluarix, FluLaval 200 230 (11) (13) 88 (35) (33) 43 15 8 44 35 29 25 8 4
Hepatitis 646 688 (5) (6) 266 (10) (9) 197 (8) (13) 128 21 15 55 (11) (4)
Infanrix, Pediarix 775 690 17 12 218 32 34 376 – (7) 120 85 76 61 9 9
Nimenrix 1 – – – – – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Rotarix 360 300 21 20 100 (11) (9) 39 2 (5) 159 25 23 62 >100 >100
Synflorix 385 350 17 10 – – – 45 (8) (13) 334 22 14 6 – –
Other 450 541 (13) (17) 1 – – 173 (18) (22) 231 (12) (16) 45 7 2
19,947 20,543 (1) (3) 7,000 (2) – 5,001 (7) (12) 4,736 10 6 3,210 (5) (5)
ViiV Healthcare
(HIV) 1,374 1,569 (10) (12)
21,321 22,112 (2) (4)
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.GSK Annual Report 2012 235
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area 2011 (restated)
Total USA Europe EMAP Rest of World
Therapeutic area/ 2011 2010 Growth 2011 Growth 2011 Growth 2011 Growth 2011 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 7,298 7,238 2 1 3,301 1 (3) 2,115 (2) (2) 779 9 6 1,103 9 15
Avamys/Veramyst 241 193 24 25 62 (6) (10) 65 14 16 54 42 42 60 90 100
Flixonase/Flonase 138 164 (17) (16) 7 (78) (81) 37 (8) (8) 49 11 11 45 (2) 5
Flixotide/Flovent 813 804 3 1 447 8 4 151 (6) (5) 52 8 2 163 (4) –
Seretide/Advair 5,061 5,139 – (2) 2,475 (1) (5) 1,580 (2) (1) 379 2 (1) 627 9 14
Serevent 182 201 (9) (9) 62 2 (3) 85 (14) (13) 3 50 50 32 (19) (14)
Ventolin 602 522 17 15 239 39 34 141 (1) (1) 160 14 10 62 4 11
Xyzal 64 33 85 94 – – – – – – 16 7 7 48 >100 >100
Zyrtec 96 82 12 17 – – – – – – 29 36 32 67 3 12
Other 101 100 1 1 9 (40) (10) 56 6 6 37 12 9 (1) 33 >(100)
Anti-virals 842 1,167 (29) (28) 96 (73) (73) 101 (24) (22) 348 (1) (1) 297 (13) (9)
Hepsera 127 128 (3) (1) – – – – – – 96 (4) (3) 31 4 11
Zovirax 109 152 (29) (28) 11 (79) (79) 27 (4) – 37 12 12 34 (13) (13)
Valtrex 339 532 (38) (36) 72 (70) (71) 48 (31) (29) 38 11 9 181 (4) 2
Zeffix 237 233 1 2 11 (15) (15) 24 (8) (8) 176 5 6 26 (11) (7)
Other 30 122 (76) (75) 2 (95) (95) 2 (75) (75) 1 (94) (94) 25 (55) (53)
Central nervous
system 1,721 1,753 (2) (2) 474 (3) (6) 480 (12) (11) 311 12 10 456 2 7
Imigran/Imitrex 210 212 (2) (1) 82 12 9 74 (14) (13) 7 – – 47 (4) 4
Lamictal 536 504 8 6 277 12 8 131 (10) (8) 71 3 – 57 61 73
Requip 218 233 (7) (6) 42 (2) (5) 113 (18) (18) 12 – – 51 23 28
Seroxat/Paxil 435 482 (13) (10) (3) <(100) <(100) 66 (20) (20) 88 7 7 284 (8) (2)
Treximet 57 56 5 2 57 7 4 – – – – – – – (100) (100)
Wellbutrin 85 81 6 5 16 (33) (33) 45 15 15 23 35 35 1 100 –
Other 180 185 (2) (3) 3 (87) (87) 51 (9) (6) 110 20 17 25 21 14
Cardiovascular
and urogenital 2,454 2,314 8 6 1,527 4 – 534 8 9 252 24 22 141 43 48
Arixtra 276 301 (7) (8) 147 (14) (17) 97 (3) (2) 21 47 40 11 (10) 10
Avodart 748 629 20 19 331 2 (2) 223 26 27 69 27 23 125 93 >100
Coreg 155 171 (6) (9) 154 (6) (9) – – – – – – 1 – –
Fraxiparine 234 222 5 5 – – – 162 5 5 70 29 25 2 (92) (83)
Lovaza 569 530 12 7 567 12 7 – – – – – – 2 – –
Vesicare 126 114 15 11 126 16 12 – – – – – – – – –
Other 346 347 2 – 202 4 1 52 (15) (13) 92 15 16 – (38) >(100)
Metabolic 331 647 (49) (49) 90 (60) (62) 61 (62) (62) 63 (36) (37) 117 (27) (22)
Avandia products 123 440 (71) (72) 91 (60) (62) (3) <(100) <(100) 18 (71) (71) 17 (68) (68)
Other 208 207 (1) – (1) – – 64 (11) (11) 45 21 18 100 4 3
Anti-bacterials 1,390 1,396 1 – 54 (25) (28) 513 (5) (4) 724 9 5 99 – 3
Augmentin 641 625 4 3 – <(100) – 248 3 3 352 10 6 41 (5) (2)
Other 749 771 (1) (3) 54 (13) (16) 265 (11) (10) 372 9 4 58 4 7
Oncology and
emesis 683 679 1 1 268 (20) (23) 245 22 24 92 25 23 78 25 30
Arzerra 44 31 45 42 31 23 19 12 >100 >100 – – – 1 – –
Promacta 75 31 >100 >100 32 36 28 23 >100 >100 5 – – 15 >100 >100
Tyverb/Tykerb 231 227 2 2 64 (6) (9) 97 2 3 42 26 20 28 (7) –
Votrient 100 38 >100 >100 56 76 70 37 >100 >100 7 – – – – –
Other 233 352 (33) (34) 85 (54) (56) 76 (19) (16) 38 – – 34 21 17
Dermatologicals 898 849 8 6 263 (4) (8) 157 3 3 382 26 22 96 (9) (3)
Bactroban 123 119 6 3 51 4 – 28 4 4 35 9 3 9 14 29
Duac 109 116 (3) (6) 60 (6) (10) 24 – 4 13 8 – 12 (8) (8)
Other 666 614 10 8 152 (6) (10) 105 4 3 334 29 26 75 (11) (5)
Rare diseases 463 408 12 13 105 (4) (7) 140 1 2 40 40 33 178 30 39
Flolan 179 195 (11) 8 37 (15) (20) 43 (37) (36) – – – 99 13 21
Volibris 97 46 >100 >100 – – – 69 70 73 5 >100 >100 23 >100 >100
Other 187 167 12 12 68 4 1 27 (7) (7) 35 24 21 56 29 37
Other
pharmaceuticals 966 956 2 1 30 29 25 264 (15) (15) 456 14 8 217 1 8
Vaccines 3,497 4,326 (19) (19) 814 11 7 1,091 (36) (35) 1,012 (11) (12) 580 (26) (21)
Boostrix 192 181 7 6 108 2 (2) 48 9 12 9 – (10) 27 33 50
Cervarix 506 242 >100 >100 8 (31) (38) 58 (50) (50) 94 70 68 346 >100 >100
Fluarix, FluLaval 230 241 (2) (5) 132 25 20 40 (38) (37) 34 (20) (23) 24 – –
Hepatitis 688 720 (3) (4) 293 (1) (5) 227 (7) (6) 111 (2) (2) 57 (3) (2)
Infanrix, Pediarix 690 700 (2) (1) 163 16 12 403 (7) (6) 68 (4) (6) 56 (4) 6
Rotarix 300 235 31 28 110 55 49 41 8 8 129 16 12 20 >100 >100
Synflorix 350 221 57 58 – – – 52 21 21 292 81 81 6 (76) (65)
Other 541 1,786 (70) (70) – <(100) <(100) 222 (69) (69) 275 (51) (52) 44 (91) (91)
20,543 21,733 (5) (5) 7,022 (4) (8) 5,700 (13) (12) 4,459 5 3 3,362 (3) 3
ViiV Healthcare
(HIV) 1,569 1,566 1
22,112 23,299 (4)
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.236 GSK Annual Report 2012
Investor information
ViiV Healthcare turnover
Total USA Europe EMAP Rest of World
2011
Therapeutic area/ 2012 (restated) Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Combivir 179 322 (43) (44) 24 (81) (81) 64 (27) (31) 79 (2) (5) 12 (42) (37)
Epivir 49 110 (54) (55) 8 (81) (81) 21 (31) (35) 12 (55) (56) 8 (23) (38)
Epzicom/Kivexa 665 617 10 8 243 4 6 285 11 5 57 37 34 80 10 11
Lexiva 127 142 (9) (11) 68 (9) (8) 33 (20) (26) 19 25 21 7 (14) –
Selzentry 128 110 20 16 57 25 26 56 16 9 4 9 2 11 30 10
Trizivir 107 126 (13) (15) 61 (11) (10) 37 (21) (25) 5 4 (1) 4 25 –
Other 119 142 (16) (16) 59 (24) (24) 27 (10) (13) 22 5 5 11 (17) (8)
1,374 1,569 (10) (12) 520 (22) (21) 523 (3) (9) 198 3 – 133 (2) (3)
Total USA Europe EMAP Rest of World
2011 2010
Therapeutic area/ (restated) (restated) Growth 2011 Growth 2011 Growth 2011 Growth 2011 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Combivir 322 363 (10) (11) 127 (8) (11) 93 (21) (21) 83 6 4 19 (26) (17)
Epivir 110 115 (3) (4) 39 3 (3) 32 (14) (14) 27 13 13 12 (21) (14)
Epzicom/Kivexa 617 555 12 11 230 14 10 272 10 11 43 13 13 72 10 16
Lexiva 142 155 (7) (8) 74 (4) (8) 45 (14) (12) 16 23 23 7 (36) (36)
Selzentry 110 80 39 38 45 38 32 51 24 24 4 100 100 10 >100 >100
Trizivir 126 144 (11) (13) 67 (4) (8) 50 (18) (17) 5 25 25 4 (43) (43)
Other 142 154 (6) (8) 78 (1) (3) 31 (12) (9) 21 (10) – 12 (11) (37)
1,569 1,566 1 – 660 4 – 574 (3) (2) 199 9 9 136 (4) (2)
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the Five
year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
2011 2010 2009 2008
2012 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Turnover by division £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,996 18,615 18,973 19,962 17,842
Vaccines 3,325 3,497 4,326 3,706 2,539
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 21,321 22,112 23,299 23,668 20,381
Consumer Healthcare 5,110 5,275 5,093 4,700 3,971
26,431 27,387 28,392 28,368 24,352
Group turnover by geographic region
USA 8,446 8,684 9,345 10,315 9,746
Europe 7,320 8,271 9,091 9,696 8,262
EMAP 6,780 6,403 6,074 5,019 4,013
Japan 2,225 2,318 2,155 1,782 1,127
Other 1,660 1,711 1,727 1,556 1,204
26,431 27,387 28,392 28,368 24,352
Group turnover by segment
USA 7,000 7,022 7,629 8,571 8,254
Europe 5,001 5,700 6,479 7,063 5,847
EMAP 4,736 4,459 4,347 3,615 2,748
Japan 1,969 2,082 1,959 1,605 995
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,374 1,569 1,566 1,605 1,513
Other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals 1,241 1,280 1,319 1,209 1,024
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 21,321 22,112 23,299 23,668 20,381
Consumer Healthcare 5,110 5,275 5,093 4,700 3,971
26,431 27,387 28,392 28,368 24,352GSK Annual Report 2012 237
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
2011 2010 2009 2008
2012 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 7,291 7,298 7,238 6,977 5,817
Anti-virals 753 842 1,167 2,474 1,638
Central nervous system 1,670 1,721 1,753 1,870 2,897
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,431 2,454 2,314 2,077 1,674
Metabolic 171 331 647 1,151 1,156
Anti-bacterials 1,247 1,390 1,396 1,457 1,301
Oncology and emesis 798 683 679 620 489
Dermatology 850 898 849 547 305
Rare diseases 495 463 408 364 298
Immuno-inflammation 70 15 – – –
Other pharmaceuticals 846 951 956 820 754
Vaccines 3,325 3,497 4,326 3,706 2,539
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,374 1,569 1,566 1,605 1,513
21,321 22,112 23,299 23,668 20,381
Consumer Healthcare turnover
Total wellness 2,008 2,278 2,202 2,157 1,776
Oral care 1,797 1,711 1,596 1,479 1,240
Nutrition 1,050 1,025 953 851 796
Skin health 255 261 342 213 159
5,110 5,275 5,093 4,700 3,971
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Financial results – total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 26,431 27,387 28,392 28,368 24,352
Operating profit 7,392 7,807 3,783 8,425 7,141
Profit before taxation 6,692 7,698 3,157 7,891 6,659
Profit after taxation 4,744 5,458 1,853 5,669 4,712
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 92.9 104.6 32.1 109.1 88.6
Diluted earnings per share 91.5 103.2 31.9 108.2 88.1
2012 2011 2010
Financial results – core £m £m £m
Turnover 26,431 27,387 28,392
Operating profit 8,330 8,803 9,497
Profit before taxation 7,635 8,111 8,866
Profit after taxation 5,771 6,007 6,600
pence pence pence
Core earnings per share 112.7 115.5 125.5
Core diluted earnings per share 111.0 113.9 124.4
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 4,912 5,028 5,085 5,069 5,195
Diluted 4,989 5,099 5,128 5,108 5,226
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 85.9 82.9 30.8 82.8 73.1
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.238 GSK Annual Report 2012
Investor information
Five year record continued
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 27,783 24,913 26,194 25,292 22,124
Current assets 13,692 16,167 16,036 17,570 17,269
Total assets 41,475 41,080 42,230 42,862 39,393
Current liabilities (13,815) (15,010) (12,794) (12,118) (10,017)
Non-current liabilities (20,913) (17,243) (19,691) (20,002) (21,058)
Total liabilities (34,728) (32,253) (32,485) (32,120) (31,075)
Net assets 6,747 8,827 9,745 10,742 8,318
Shareholders’ equity 5,810 8,032 8,887 10,005 7,931
Non-controlling interests 937 795 858 737 387
Total equity 6,747 8,827 9,745 10,742 8,318
Number of employees
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
USA 17,201 16,707 17,555 22,594 21,176
Europe 38,788 38,696 39,910 42,048 44,677
EMAP 36,738 35,080 31,992 28,327 26,162
Japan 3,515 3,573 3,461 3,264 3,174
Other 3,246 3,333 3,543 3,680 3,814
99,488 97,389 96,461 99,913 99,003
Manufacturing 31,369 30,664 30,611 31,162 32,622
Selling 45,601 45,155 43,918 44,621 42,430
Administration 9,607 8,883 8,850 9,405 8,787
Research and development 12,911 12,687 13,082 14,725 15,164
99,488 97,389 96,461 99,913 99,003
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are employed
and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars for
Sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’)*.
2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
Average 1.59 1.60 1.55 1.56 1.85
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates for each day of the year.
2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 2012
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.58 1.63 1.60 1.58 1.59 1.59
Low 1.51 1.57 1.63 1.61 1.62 1.63
* On 31 December 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York ceased publishing noon buying rates. The Bank of England 4pm buying rates have been used for
subsequent calculations.
The 4pm buying rate on 28 February 2013 was £1= US$1.51.GSK Annual Report 2012 239
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
& risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Shareholder information
Share capital and control We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own shares
during the period under review, other than in connection with our
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares held share buy-back programme.
in Treasury as at 31 December 2012 can be found in Note 33 to
the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’. Share buy-back programme
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and are also The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares
quoted on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association. The power
American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS represents two under Article 9 and the authority for the company to make
Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt and where it is listed purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities
refer to Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’. which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual General Meeting
(AGM). Any shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends, when held as Treasury shares.
declared, the company’s Annual Report, to attend and speak
at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and to During 2012, we continued our long-term share buy-back
exercise voting rights. programme and 174 million shares were purchased at a total cost
of £2,493 million. No shares were purchased in the period 1 January
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the
to 28 February 2013.
holding, of Ordinary Shares and no requirements to obtain approval
prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares carry any special rights Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or
with regard to control of the company and there are no restrictions to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority
on voting rights. Major shareholders have the same voting rights renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2012, when the
per share as all other shareholders. company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just under
505 million shares. Details of shares purchased, expectations of
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are
future repurchases, those cancelled, and those held as Treasury
held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known
shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements ‘Share
agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
capital and share premium account’.
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank equally
The exact amount and timing of any future purchases, and the
with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. The
extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares
trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have waived
rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company
their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts.
and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting
Market capitalisation
security holders
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
Other than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2012 was £65.47 billion.
time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, decrees or At that date, GSK was the fifth largest company by market
regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting capitalisation in the FTSE index.
the remittance of dividends or other payments to holders of the
company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. Similarly, other Share price
than certain economic sanctions which may be in force from time
to time, there are no limitations relating only to non-residents of 2012 2011 2010
the UK under English law or the company’s Articles of Association £ £ £
At 1 January 14.72 12.40 13.20
on the right to be a holder of, and to vote in respect of, the
At 31 December 13.35 14.72 12.40
company’s shares.
(Decrease)/increase (9.3%) 18.7% (6.1%)
Interests in voting rights High during the year 15.08 14.74 13.40
Low during the year 13.18 11.28 10.95
Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no
persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company. The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. The
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial company’s share price decreased by 9.3% in 2012. This compares
Services Authority’s (FSA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTRs) with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 5.8% during the year.
is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the The share price on 28 February 2013 was £14.56.
company’s website.
At 28 February 2013, the company had received notifications in UK£ US$
accordance with the FSA’s DTRs of the following notifiable interests 15 60
in the voting rights in the company’s issued share capital:
14 55
*Percentage of 13 50
No. of issued
12 45
shares capital (%)
BlackRock, Inc. 271,061,000 5.52 11 40
Legal & General Group Plc 153,140,293 3.12 10 35
* Percentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares. 9 30
BNY Mellon Depositary Receipts is the Depositary for the company’s 8 25
ADS, which are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the 01/01/10 31/12/10 31/12/11 31/12/12
company’s ADR programme, which is managed by the Depositary, UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)
are registered in the name of BNY (Nominees) Limited. Details of
the number of Ordinary Shares held by the Depositary can be
found on page 244.240 GSK Annual Report 2012
Shareholder information
Nature of trading market Dividends per share
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS for the
low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into US dollars at
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US applicable exchange rates.
dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Year Dividend pence US$
Pence per share 2012 74 2.35
Ordinary Shares High Low 2011 70 2.25
Quarter ended 31 March 2013* 1486 1359 2011 Supplemental* 5 0.16
February 2013 1486 1438 2010 65 2.04
January 2013 1450 1359 2009 61 1.99
December 2012 1377 1335 2008 57 2.01
November 2012 1400 1318
October 2012 1465 1387 * The 2011 supplemental dividend related to the disposal of certain non-core OTC
brands in North America. This was paid with the fourth quarter ordinary
September 2012 1457 1409 dividend for 2011.
Quarter ended 31 December 2012 1465 1318
Quarter ended 30 September 2012 1508 1409 Dividend calendar
Quarter ended 30 June 2012 1479 1392
Quarter Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date
Quarter ended 31 March 2012 1497 1387
Q4 2012 20 February 2013 22 February 2013 11 April 2013
Quarter ended 31 December 2011 1474 1312
Q1 2013 8 May 2013 10 May 2013 11 July 2013
Quarter ended 30 September 2011 1385 1205
Q2 2013 7 August 2013 9 August 2013 3 October 2013
Quarter ended 30 June 2011 1349 1201
Q3 2013 13 November 2013 15 November 2013 9 January 2014
Quarter ended 31 March 2011 1270 1128
Year ended 31 December 2010 1340 1095
Financial reporting calendar
Year ended 31 December 2009 1334 987
Year ended 31 December 2008 1385 995
Publication Date
Results announcements
US dollars per ADS
ADS Quarter 1 April 2013
High Low
Quarter 2 July 2013
Quarter ended 31 March 2013* 45.98 43.93
Quarter 3 October 2013
February 2013 45.98 44.03
Preliminary/Quarter 4 February 2014
January 2013 45.61 43.93
Annual Report/Summary February/March 2014
December 2012 44.37 43.01
November 2012 44.86 41.90
Results announcements
October 2012 47.45 44.80
September 2012 47.11 45.14 Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
Quarter ended 31 December 2012 47.45 41.90 and are available on its news service. They are also sent to the
Quarter ended 30 September 2012 47.23 44.26 US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued to
Quarter ended 30 June 2012 47.29 43.45 the media and made available on our website.
Quarter ended 31 March 2012 46.35 43.73
Financial reports
Quarter ended 31 December 2011 45.74 40.53
Quarter ended 30 September 2011 44.91 38.84
The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the shareholder
Quarter ended 30 June 2011 43.74 38.78
not needing the full detail of the Annual Report, a Summary.
Quarter ended 31 March 2011 39.86 36.33
These documents are available on the website from the date of
Year ended 31 December 2010 42.97 32.34 publication. The Summary is sent to all shareholders. Shareholders
Year ended 31 December 2009 42.91 27.27 may elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
Year ended 31 December 2008 54.36 32.02 Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by
email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
* to 28 February 2013
www.shareview.co.uk.
Dividends
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK and
The company pays dividends quarterly. It continues to increase cash
from the GSK Response Center in the USA, (see pages 245 and
returns to shareholders through its dividend policy and ongoing
246 for the contact details).
long-term share buy-back programme. Dividends remain an
essential component of total shareholder return and the company
is committed to increasing its dividend over the long-term. Details
of the dividends declared, the amounts and the payment dates
are given in Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.GSK Annual Report 2012 241
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Directors If an actual conflict arises post-authorisation, the Board may choose
to exclude the Director from receipt of the relevant information and
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our participation in the debate, or suspend the Director from the Board,
Articles of Association, which are available on our website. The or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.
Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential
The Directors may exercise all the company’s powers provided that
conflict authorisations in October 2012 and reported to the Board
the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such
that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the
powers must be exercised by the members.
process for authorisation continues to operate effectively.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors
are contained in our Articles. They provide that Directors may be Independent advice
appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or
resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance,
more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal
a Director appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following
and/or financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an agreed
his or her appointment.
procedure, which is set out on our website, to enable them to do so.
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject
Indemnification of Directors to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if
they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or more. Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors, who wish to Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors and
continue as members of the Board, should seek re-election annually former Directors who held office during 2012 and up to the signing
in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. Members of the Annual Report.
may remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution of which
special notice has been given, or by passing a special resolution. Change of control and essential contracts
A Director may automatically cease to be a Director if:
We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually
(cid:115)(cid:0) he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively,
creditors generally nor is the company party to any material agreements that would
take effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control
(cid:115)(cid:0) he or she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies
following a takeover bid.
Act or the Articles
We do not have agreements with any Director that would provide
(cid:115)(cid:0) he or she is suffering from mental or physical ill health
compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a
(cid:115)(cid:0) he or she has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous takeover, except that provisions of the company’s share plans may
period of six months without permission and the Board cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a
resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director takeover. Details of the termination provisions in the company’s
framework for contracts for Executive Directors are given on
(cid:115)(cid:0) he or she is prohibited from being a Director by law
page 125.
(cid:115)(cid:0) he or she resigns
Annual General Meeting 2013
(cid:115)(cid:0) he or she offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer
(cid:115)(cid:0) all other Directors (being at least three in number) require Wednesday, 1 May 2013
him or her to resign. The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE
Directors’ conflicts of interest
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business, there
a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect
will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of the
conflict of interest or possible conflict with the company. The duty
Group and its future development. There will be an opportunity applies, in particular, to the exploitation of any property, information
for questions to be asked to the Board. Chairmen of the Board’s
or opportunity whether or not the company could take advantage
Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
of it. Our Articles provide a general power for the Board to authorise
such conflicts. Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange
with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of
The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board
their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
to grant and periodically, but in any event annually, to review
any potential or actual conflict authorisations. Directors are not ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual from BNY Mellon Depositary Receipts. This will enable them to
or potential conflicts. Authorisations granted are recorded by attend and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders
the Company Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board may instruct BNY Mellon Depositary Receipts as to the way in
at its next meeting. which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted by
completing and returning the voting card provided by the bank.
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing
the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conflicts that
Documents on display
may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may
affect an authorisation previously given. Even when provided with The Articles of Association of the company and other documents
authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection at the
duty to promote the success of the company. company’s registered office and on our website and will be made
available for inspection at the AGM.242 GSK Annual Report 2012
Shareholder information
Donations to political organisations and political Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
expenditure
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the
With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Sarbanes-
to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with
policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions. financial reporting and corporate governance.
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2012, the Group As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a
did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations. Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO
and to the Audit & Risk Committee. It is chaired by the Company
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance
Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance,
with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the USA, we continue
legal, corporate communications and investor relations.
to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee
(PAC) that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts
GSK employees. are invited to attend its meetings periodically. It has responsibility
for considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis,
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts and
determining the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility
recipients of contributions are made by participating employees
for the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review
exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political
of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2012, the Committee met
contributions, which are subject to strict limitations. In 2012, a total
10 times.
of US$565,630 (US$612,500 in 2011) was donated to political
organisations by the GSK employee PAC. Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a
statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk Committee
At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company
(ARC) is an audit committee financial expert as defined by Sarbanes-
to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU
Oxley. Such a statement for each of the relevant members of the
political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties,
ARC (Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom de Swaan) is
Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000 each year.
included in each of their biographies on pages 90 and 91. Additional
This authority has since been renewed annually. The Companies Act
disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and section 404
2006 requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval
of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and procedures
before they can make donations to EU political organisations or
and internal control over financial reporting.
incur EU political expenditure.
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial
However, we do not make and do not intend to make donations
to political parties or independent election candidates, nor do reports
we make any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the
political expenditure.
CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that:
The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
(cid:115)(cid:0) they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F
political organisations used in the legislation are very wide. In
particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend (cid:115)(cid:0) based on their knowledge, the Annual Report and Form 20-F
to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, contains no material misstatements or omissions
the representation of the business community and special interest
(cid:115)(cid:0) based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
groups such as those concerned with the environment, which the
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
company and its subsidiaries might wish to support. As a result,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the
the definitions may cover legitimate business activities not in the
dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and
ordinary sense considered to be political donations or political
Form 20-F
expenditure.
(cid:115)(cid:0) they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
Such activities are not designed to support any political party or
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is
independent election candidate. The authority which the Board
made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of
has sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that
these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of
the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the
such evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and
legislation.
Form 20-F
US law and regulation (cid:115)(cid:0) they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADS. accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
NYSE rules (cid:115)(cid:0) they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially,
provided that we explain any significant variations. This explanation the company’s internal control over financial reporting, and
is contained in our Form 20-F filing, which can be accessed from the
Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) EDGAR database or via
our website. NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require us to
file annual and interim written affirmations concerning the Audit
& Risk Committee and our statement on significant differences in
corporate governance.GSK Annual Report 2012 243
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
(cid:115)(cid:0) they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of Tax information for shareholders
internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors
and the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax
in the design or operation of internal controls over financial consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens of the
reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the UK or the USA is set out below. It is not a complete analysis of all
company’s ability to record, process, summarise and report the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale
financial information, and any fraud (regardless of materiality) of these securities. It is intended only as a general guide. Holders
involving persons that have a significant role in the company’s are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax
internal control over financial reporting. consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares or
ADR and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and
USA and the implications of the current UK/US tax conventions.
with the participation of its management, including the CEO and
CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Group’s US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the
disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2012. underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA/UK double
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention),
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of
and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
amended (the Code).
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of UK shareholders
achieving their control objectives.
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and
shares as capital assets.
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls
and procedures in March 2013, following which the certificates Taxation of dividends
will be filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s Form 20-F.
UK resident shareholders will generally be subject to UK income tax
Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal on the full amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the amount of
control over financial reporting a tax credit. The tax credit may be set against the individual’s income
tax liability in respect of the gross dividend, but is not repayable to
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes- shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect For the tax year 2010-11 and subsequent tax years, an additional
of the company’s internal control over financial reporting (as rate of income tax on dividends was imposed for taxpayers whose
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities income is above £150,000. UK resident shareholders that are
Exchange Act of 1934): corporation taxpayers should note that dividends are generally
(cid:115)(cid:0) management is responsible for establishing and maintaining entitled to exemption from corporation tax.
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
Taxation of capital gains
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for of shares or ADR. For disposals by individuals and subject to the
external purposes in accordance with IFRS availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt
amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or
(cid:115)(cid:0) management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, such
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework,
shareholder’s taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic rate
Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
income tax limit. In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing on
of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission
a disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at a
(cid:115)(cid:0) there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over combination of both rates. Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to
financial reporting during 2012 that have materially affected, or an indexation allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the
are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal extent that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance
control over financial reporting may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
(cid:115)(cid:0) management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control Inheritance tax
over financial reporting as at 31 December 2012 and its
conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F, and Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the
transfer of shares or ADR. Tax may be charged on the amount by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the consolidated
which the value of the shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result
financial statements of the Group for the year ended
of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less than full
31 December 2012, has also assessed the effectiveness of the
market value. If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both
Group’s internal control over financial reporting under Auditing
UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift
Standard No. 5 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the USA
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the
to be credited against tax payable in the UK.
Group’s Form 20-F.
Stamp duty
UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to
certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate
of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.244 GSK Annual Report 2012
Shareholder information
US shareholders Information reporting and backup withholding
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or ADR,
resident of the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial
otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be
respect of the shares or ADR) that holds shares or ADR as capital subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation
assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification
hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that number and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred.
is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency. Non-US holders generally are not subject to information reporting or
backup withholding, but may be required to provide a certification
The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders
of their non-US status in connection with payments received. Any
that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt
amounts withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a
entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies,
holder’s US federal income tax liability provided the required
persons that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated investment
information is furnished to the IRS.
(including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADR and one or
more other positions, and persons that own (directly or indirectly) Estate and gift taxes
10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
Taxation of dividends generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source Stamp duty
dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for the
dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations. Dividends UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
on ADR are payable in US dollars; dividends on shares are payable in be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or
pounds Sterling. Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
in income in the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
exchange rate on the day the dividends are received by the holder. no consideration).
Subject to certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions,
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to
an individual eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a
transfer an ADR. No UK stamp duty should be payable on the
maximum rate of 23.8% in respect of qualified dividends.
transfer of an ADR provided that any instrument of transfer is
executed and remains at all times outside the UK. Any stamp duty
Taxation of capital gains
on the transfer of an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but the consideration for the transfer. Any sale of the underlying shares
will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other would, subject to certain exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp
disposal of shares or ADR. Such gains will be long-term capital gains duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
(subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders) if the
shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2012
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 103,283 71 1 37,927,294
1,001 to 5,000 33,509 23 1 71,925,595
5,001 to 100,000 7,439 5 2 106,883,853
100,001 to 1,000,000 757 1 5 262,970,591
Over 1,000,000 367 0 91 4,917,888,636
145,355 100 100 5,397,595,969
Held by
Nominee companies 25,175 17 71 3,833,796,077
Investment and trust companies 38 0 0 4,688,382
Insurance companies 9 0 0 5,971
Individuals and other corporate bodies 120,131 83 5 248,039,527
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 0 15 816,114,685
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0 9 494,951,327
145,355 100 100 5,397,595,969
BNY Mellon Depositary Receipts’ holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each
ADS represents two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value. At 28 February 2013, BNY (Nominees) Limited held 816,909,301 Ordinary Shares
representing 16.65% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares) held at that date.
At 28 February 2013, the number of holders of shares in the USA was 1,075 with holdings of 1,191,611 shares, and the number of registered
holders of ADS was 28,804 with holdings of 408,454,650 ADS. Certain of these shares and ADS were held by brokers or other nominees.
As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of beneficial holders or of
the residence of beneficial holders.GSK Annual Report 2012 245
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0871 384 2991 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44(0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Shareview service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view You can register at:
your share balance and movements, update your address www.shareview.co.uk
and dividend payment instructions and register your votes
for our AGM.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee This is a convenient way to manage your shares without An application form can be
Account requiring a share certificate. The service provides a downloaded from
facility for you to hold your shares in a nominee company www.shareview.co.uk or
sponsored by the company. You will continue to receive requested by telephoning Equiniti.
dividend payments, annual reports and can attend and
vote at the company’s general meetings. Shareholders’
names do not appear on the publicly available share
register and the service is free to join.
Dividend payment direct to your If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through A dividend bank mandate form can
bank account the post, you can instead have them paid directly into be downloaded from
your bank or building society account. This is quicker, www.shareview.co.uk or
more secure and avoids the risk of your cheque going requested by telephoning Equiniti.
astray.
Dividend payment direct to Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, For more details on this service and
bank account for overseas Equiniti will convert your dividend into your local currency the costs involved please contact
shareholders and send it direct to your local bank account. This service Equiniti.
is available in over 100 countries worldwide.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may A DRIP election form can be
(DRIP) choose to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK downloaded from
shares. www.shareview.co.uk or
requested by telephoning Equiniti.
Duplicate publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of this report or other Please contact Equiniti.
mailings, please contact Equiniti and they will arrange
for your accounts to be merged into one for your
convenience and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held as certificates For internet transactions, please log
(please note that market trading or held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by internet on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
hours are from 8.00am to 4.30pm or telephone through the share dealing service provided
UK time, Monday to Friday, by Equiniti Financial Services Limited. For telephone transactions, please call
excluding UK public holidays) 0845 603 7037 (in the UK) or
+44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK)
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from
Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK www.shareview.co.uk or can be
Ordinary Shares. requested by telephoning Equiniti.
* UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays, and calls to the number are charged at 8p per minute
plus network extras.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing
should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.246 GSK Annual Report 2012
Shareholder information
ADR Depositary Contacts
The ADR programme is administered by: GSK Response Center
BNY Mellon Depositary Receipts Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
PO Box 43006
Providence, RI 02940-3006 Investor relations
www.bnymellon.com/shareowner
Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside the USA) UK
email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com 980 Great West Road,
The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT†, a direct ADS Brentford
Middlesex
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
TW8 9GS
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Corporate PEPs
USA
The Share Centre Limited Five Crescent Drive
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Philadelphia PA 19112
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 141 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 215 751 4000 (outside the USA)
ShareGift
17 Carlton House Terrace, London, SW1Y 5AH
Tel: +44 (0)20 7930 3737
www.sharegift.org
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them
to the charity ShareGift (registered charity no. 1052686). Donated
shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, who pass on the
proceeds to a wide range of charities.†
Share scam alert
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy
your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a highly
organised financial scam.
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Services
Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities,
on its consumer helpline:
Tel: 0845 606 1234 (in the UK)
Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time,
Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays.
Corporate Responsibility Report
We are publishing our Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 online
in 2013. This will outline GSK’s approach to, and performance in,
our key corporate responsibility areas, Health for all, Our behaviour,
Our people and Our planet.
Internet
Information about the company, including the share price, is available
on our website at www.gsk.com. Information made available on the
website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or
inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing
should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.GSK Annual Report 2012 247
2-54
Strategic
review
55-86
Financial
review
&
risk
87-136
Governance
&
remuneration
137-223
Financial
statements
224-248
Investor
information
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two
Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) I n 2012, the company entered into a settlement with the US Federal Government related to past
sales and marketing practices. As part of the settlement the company entered into a Corporate
Integrity Agreement with the US Department of Health and Human Services, under which
improvements are being built into its existing compliance programmes.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how it
has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting Council’s
UK Corporate Governance Code.248 GSK Annual Report 2012
Shareholder information
Index
Page Page
Access to medicines 10 Investments in associates and joint ventures 169
Accounting principles and policies 144 Investor relations 246
Acquisitions and disposals 188 Key accounting judgements and estimates 148
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Key performance indicators 06
cash flows 186 Late-stage pipeline summary 40
Annual General Meeting 241 Legal proceedings 210
Assets held for sale 171 Long-Term Incentive plans 130
Associates and joint ventures 159 Major restructuring costs 158
Board 88 Movements in equity 184
Business review 01 Net debt 181
Cash and cash equivalents 171 New accounting requirements 150
Chairman and othe Non-Executive Directors 125 Non-Executive Director terms and conditions 130
Chairman’s statement 02 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 128
Chief Executive’s review 03 Notes to the financial statements 144
Commitments 193 Operating profit 156
Committee reports 103 Other intangible assets 167
Competition 15 Other investments 170
Consolidated balance sheet 141 Other non-current assets 170
Consolidated cash flow statement 143 Other non-current liabilities 181
Consolidated income statement 140 Other operating income 155
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 142 Other provisions 179
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 140 Outlook 15
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 231 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 172
Contingent liabilities 181 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Corporate Executive Team 92 intellectual property 229
Corporate governance 94 Pipeline 225
Critical accounting policies 64 Post balance sheet event 193
Directors and senior management 136 Presentation of the financial statements 144
Directors’ emoluments and total remuneration 127 Principal Group companies 207
Directors’ interests 129 Product development pipeline 225
Directors’ interests in contracts 136 Products 229
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 138,218 Property, plant and equipment 163
Dividends 163,240 Quarterly trend 232
Donations to political organisations and Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 187
political expenditure 242 Registrar 245
Earnings per share 162 Related party transactions 186
Employee costs 157 Relations with shareholders 100
Employee share schemes 203 Remuneration Report 109
Employees 52 Research and development 30
Exchange rates 150 Responsible business 49
Executive Director terms and conditions 125 Risk factors 78
Finance expense 159 Segment information 151
Finance income 158 Segment reviews 20
Financial instruments and related disclosures 194 Share capital and control 239
Financial position and resources 66 Share capital and share premium account 183
Financial review 56 Share price 239
Financial review 2011 72 Shareholder information 239
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Strategy 16
under UK GAAP 220 Taxation 160
Five year record 236 Taxation information for shareholders 243
Glossary of terms 247 Trade and other payables 172
Goodwill 165 Trade and other receivables 171
Independent Auditors’ report 139,219 US law and regulation 242
Intellectual property and trademarks 15 World market 12
Inventories 170About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an English
public limited company on December 6, 1999. We
were formed by a merger between Glaxo Wellcome plc
and SmithKline Beecham plc. GSK acquired these two
English companies on 27 December 2000 as part of the
merger arrangements.
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
and the New York Stock Exchange.
Giving children a better start
GSK is part of a global coalition working to eliminate ten of the 17 neglected
tropical diseases by 2020. We have committed to donate up to 600 million
treatments of our anti-parasitic treatment, albendazole, each year to help
eliminate lymphatic filariasis and up to 400 million treatments to fight intestinal
worms in school age children. In 2012, we provided albendazole treatment for over
120 million school age children – including these children in Ghana (see page 50).
Printed on Amadeus 100 silk, a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification. All pulps used are made from 100%
de-inked, post-consumer waste and are elemental chlorine free. The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and EU
Eco-label certificates for environmental management.
snikreP
sucraM
Read more at www.gsk.comwww.gsk.com
Here you will find down-loadable PDFs of:
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:1)(cid:152)(cid:152)(cid:213)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:202)(cid:44)(cid:105)(cid:171)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:204)(cid:202)(cid:211)(cid:228)(cid:163)(cid:211)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:1)(cid:152)(cid:152)(cid:213)(cid:62)(cid:143)(cid:202)(cid:45)(cid:213)(cid:147)(cid:147)(cid:62)(cid:192)(cid:222)(cid:202)(cid:211)(cid:228)(cid:163)(cid:211)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:19)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:147)(cid:202)(cid:211)(cid:228)(cid:135)(cid:19)
(cid:85)(cid:202)(cid:10)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:171)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:44)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:171)(cid:156)(cid:152)(cid:195)(cid:136)(cid:76)(cid:136)(cid:143)(cid:136)(cid:204)(cid:222)(cid:202)(cid:44)(cid:105)(cid:171)(cid:156)(cid:192)(cid:204)
(cid:21)(cid:105)(cid:62)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:34)(cid:118)(cid:119)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:202)(cid:62)(cid:152)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:44)(cid:105)(cid:125)(cid:136)(cid:195)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:34)(cid:118)(cid:119)(cid:86)(cid:105)(cid:202)
GlaxoSmithKline plc
(cid:153)(cid:110)(cid:228)(cid:202)(cid:20)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:62)(cid:204)(cid:202)(cid:55)(cid:105)(cid:195)(cid:204)(cid:202)(cid:44)(cid:156)(cid:62)(cid:96)(cid:202)
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
(cid:44)(cid:105)(cid:125)(cid:136)(cid:195)(cid:204)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:105)(cid:96)(cid:202)(cid:152)(cid:213)(cid:147)(cid:76)(cid:105)(cid:192)(cid:92)(cid:202)(cid:206)(cid:110)(cid:110)(cid:110)(cid:199)(cid:153)(cid:211)
You can also search for us here
Printed on Amadeus 100 silk, a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification. All pulps used are made
from 100% de-inked, post-consumer waste and are Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF). The manufacturing mill
holds the ISO 14001 and EU Eco-label certificates for environmental management. The mill has zero landfill
and extremely low carbon emissions, leading the WWF to approve its papers as the most environmentally
sustainable of uncoated recycled paper.