The Impact of Medicines
Do more, feel better, live longer Annual Report 2002
www.gsk.comMission Our global quest is to improve the quality of human life
by enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer.
Our Spirit We undertake our quest with the enthusiasm of entrepreneurs,
excited by the constant search for innovation. We value
performance achieved with integrity. We will attain
success as a world class global leader with each and every
one of our people contributing with passion and an unmatched
sense of urgency.
Strategic Intent We want to become the indisputable leader in our industry.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is an English public limited company.
Its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the
New York Stock Exchange.
GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and
SmithKline Beecham plc on 27th December 2000 by way
of a scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two
companies which became effective on 27th December 2000.
This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for
the year ended 31st December 2002. It comprises in a single
document the Annual Report of the company in accordance
with United Kingdom requirements and the Annual Report
on Form20-F to the Securities and Exchange Commission
in the United States of America.
A summary report on the year, the Annual Review 2002, intended
for the investor not needing the full detail of the Annual Report,
is produced as a separate document. The Annual Review includes
the joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive
Officer, a summary review of operations, summary financial
statements and a summary remuneration report.
The Annual Review is issued to all shareholders. The Annual
Report is issued to shareholders who have elected to receive it.
Both documents are available on GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate
website – at www.gsk.com.
Website
GlaxoSmithKline’s website, www.gsk.com gives additional
information on the Group. Information made available on
the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.GlaxoSmithKline 01
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Annual Report
for the year ended 31st December 2002
Contents
Report of the Directors
02 Financial summary
03 Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
05 Description of business
31 Corporate governance
39 Remuneration report
51 Operating and financial review and prospects
73 Financial statements
74 Directors’ statements of responsibility
75 Independent Auditors’ report
76 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
76 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
78 Consolidated statement of cash flow
80 Consolidated balance sheet
80 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
81 Company balance sheet
82 Notes to the financial statements
142 Financial record
151 Investor information
152 Shareholder return
153 Shareholder information
154 Share capital
156 Taxation information for shareholders
157 Cross reference to Form 20-F
158 Glossary of terms
The Annual Report was approved by the Board
159 Index
of Directors on 10th March 2003 and published
on 28th March 2003. Contact details02 GlaxoSmithKline
Financial summary
2001
2002 (restated) Increase
Statutory results £m £m £% CER%
Sales 21,212 20,489 4 7
Trading profit 5,662 4,697 21 26
Profit before taxation 5,506 4,517 22 28
Earnings/Net income 3,915 3,053 28 35
Basic earnings per share 66.2p 50.3p 32 38
Dividends per share 40.0p 39.0p
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
Trading profit (1,032) (1,356)
Profit before taxation (1,011) (1,652)
Earnings/Net income (712) (1,330)
Business performance
Sales 21,212 20,489 4 7
Trading profit 6,694 6,053 11 15
Profit before taxation 6,517 6,169 6 11
Adjusted earnings/Net income 4,627 4,383 6 11
Adjusted earnings per share 78.3p 72.3p 8 13
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items
provides a better comparison of business performance for the periods presented. Statutory results include these non-recurring items. This
information is provided as a supplement to that included in the consolidated statement of profit and loss on pages 76 and 77 prepared in
accordance with UKGAAP.
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies. The results of
the Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore affected by movements in exchange rates between sterling and overseas currencies. The
Group uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the year to translate the results of overseas companies into sterling. The currencies
which most influence these translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen. During 2002 average sterling exchange rates
were stronger against the USdollar and the Japanese Yen by four per cent and seven per cent, respectively, and weaker against the Euro
by one per cent, compared with 2001.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained
unchanged from those used in the previous year. The discussion in this report is therefore in terms of CER unless otherwise stated.
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
During 2002 FRS19 ‘Deferred tax’ has been implemented by the Group. This FRS requires deferred tax to be accounted for on a full
provision basis, rather than a partial provision basis as in 2001 and earlier years. This change has been accounted for as a prior year
adjustment and comparative information has been restated as necessary.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group's reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written information released, or oral statements
made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group's current
expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They
use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with
any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product
approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings,
and financial results. The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors including those in this
document could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to,
those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages 64 and 65 of this Annual Report.GlaxoSmithKline 03
Joint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
New product growth drives commercial strength
The success of our new products is providing the fuel for future
growth, with new products now representing 27 per cent of total
pharmaceutical sales, up 36 per cent in 2002. Sales of
Seretide/Advairfor asthma, now our second largest product,
continued to grow impressively, up 96 per cent to £1.6 billion. We
recently launched Avandametfor type 2 diabetes and Avodartfor
benign prostatic hyperplasia, as well as important line extensions of
Augmentinand Paxil. During 2003-2004 we look forward to
launching 12 new compounds and line extensions. These include
Levitra, a new treatment for erectile dysfunction, which we are co-
promoting with Bayer, and Wellbutrin XL, a new and improved
version of our successful anti-depressant.
Creating the most productive R&D organisation
At the outset of the merger we rethought the way R&D was
carried out at GlaxoSmithKline, with the aim of creating the most
The purpose of GlaxoSmithKline is to deliver
productive R&D organisation in the industry. We established six
medicines that have a positive impact on the quality
therapeutically focused Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery
of human life. We have chosen this fundamental and
(CEDDs). The CEDDs are nimble and entrepreneurial with the range
challenging objective as the theme of this year’s of skills and scale of resources required to drive mid-stage
Annual Review. development projects through to their key decision point, proof of
concept, before large-scale phase III clinical trials.
We are pleased to report that 2002 was a year of significant
After two years of activity by the new R&D organisation, we are
progress in establishing GlaxoSmithKline as one of the world’s
seeing significant progress as we advance our promising early stage
leading pharmaceutical companies. We achieved strong financial
pipeline of pharmaceutical products through clinical development.
results in 2002, despite the entry of generic competition in the
GlaxoSmithKline has 123 projects in clinical development, of which
USA to Augmentin, one of our major products.
61 are new chemical entities in a number of therapy areas, and 23
Our progress stems from the Group’s key strengths: a broadly new vaccines. The number of new chemical entities starting phase
based product portfolio, strong financial capability and a promising II clinical trials has more than doubled since the merger. We are
early stage pipeline of products. We have built on each of these confident that, as these and our phase I pipeline move through
core attributes in 2002 and we are confident that they will help development, we will build the best late stage pharmaceutical
GlaxoSmithKline to continue to deliver success in the future. pipeline in the industry. We plan to provide a detailed update on
progress in R&D towards the end of 2003.
While achieving business success it is essential that we
demonstrate to all our stakeholders, around the world, how we
Success as partner of choice
conduct our business with integrity and continue to make a
The size and quality of our global R&D organisation, together with
positive contribution to society.
the strength of our sales and marketing teams, have enabled
GlaxoSmithKline to become the partner of choice in the industry.
Good financial performance
We have signed an unprecedented 24 major external collaborations
We delivered a very solid financial performance in 2002 in a
in the last two years which has helped to boost our product
challenging operating environment. Global pharmaceutical sales
portfolio. It has also provided some exciting new opportunities in a
grew eight per cent to nearly £18 billion and US pharmaceutical
number of areas of unmet medical need such as erectile
sales grew 13 per cent, despite generic competition to Augmentin.
dysfunction, obesity and HIV.
The Group demonstrated continued financial strength with total
sales up seven per cent and business performance trading profit up
Patent challenges
15 per cent. There were strong performances from our key therapy
Over the last year there have been a number of developments
areas including central nervous system, respiratory, anti-virals and
involving the patents on some of our key products.
vaccines.
In July, in the USA, the first generic version of Augmentinwas
Our business performance earnings per share grew by 13 per cent,
launched. This followed a ruling by a federal judge that our
delivering on our guidance and demonstrating the continuing
Augmentinpatents were invalid. We are appealing against this
financial strength that will provide the Group with a sound
decision, in the firm belief that our patents are valid. Meanwhile,
platform for the future.
we have already offset some of the impact of generics with recent
GlaxoSmithKline has made good progress with its merger and successful launches of new improved versions of Augmentin - the
manufacturing restructuring plans and we remain on track to ES and XR formulations.
deliver forecast total annual merger and manufacturing
GlaxoSmithKline is also involved in litigation over the patents on
restructuring savings of at least £1.8 billion by 2003. We are not
Wellbutrin SRand Zybanin the USA. We are awaiting the outcome
stopping there; our continuous improvement programme,
of our appeal against a judgement last year in favour of Andrx
Operational Excellence, is delivering additional savings and will
Corporation, which has applied to market generic versions of the
continue to do so.
products.GlaxoSmithKline 05
Description of business
The Description of business discusses the activities, the
resourcesandthe operating environment of the business and
identifies developments and achievements in 2002, under the
following headings:
The business
06 History and development of the company
07 Products
Operating environment
10 Competition
11 Regulation
Operating activities
13 Marketing and distribution
13 Manufacture and supply
14 Research and development
Operating resources
23 Intellectual property
24 Information technology
24 GlaxoSmithKline people
25 Property, plant and equipment
The business and the community
26 Corporate and social responsibility
26 Responsibility for environment, health and safety
27 Access to healthcare in the developing world
27 Global community partnerships
Discussion of the Group’s management structures and corporate
governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance
(pages31to38).
The Remuneration report gives details of the Group’s policies on
Directors’ remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors
and senior management in 2002 (pages 39 to 50).
Discussion of the Group’s operating and financial performance
and financial resources is given in the Operating and financial
review andprospects (pages 51 to 72).
In this report: ‘GlaxoSmithKline’ or the ‘Group’ means GlaxoSmithKline
plc and its subsidiary undertakings and the‘company’ means
GlaxoSmithKline plc;‘GlaxoSmithKline share’ means an Ordinary Share
ofGlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p. American Depositary Shares (ADS)
represent two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Throughout this report, figures quoted for market size, market share
and market growth rates relate to the 12 months ended 30th
September 2002 (orlater where available). These are GlaxoSmithKline
estimates based onthe most recent data from independent external
sources, valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates. Figures quoted
for product market share reflect sales by GlaxoSmithKline and licensees.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trade marks
of GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with theexception of
Baycol and Levitra,trade marks of Bayer AG, Bexxar, a trade mark of
Corixa Corporation, Inc, Hepsera,a trademark of Gilead Services, Inc,
Natrecor,a trade mark of Scios Inc, Navelbine, a trade mark of Pierre
Fabre Médicament, Nicoderm, a trade mark of Aventis SA and Pritor, a
trade mark of Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH, all of which
are used under licence by the Group.04 GlaxoSmithKlineJoint statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer
Seroxat/Paxil continues to be subject to threat of generic Positive Action, our international programme of HIV/AIDS
competition, particularly in the USA. education, care and support has now been established for ten
years backing international programmes in 32 countries.
A federal judge in Chicago recently ruled that GlaxoSmithKline’s
patent in the USA covering the hemihydrate form of Paxilwas valid GlaxoSmithKline is a key partner in the global effort to eliminate
but not infringed by generics company Apotex’s product. We lymphatic filariasis. This disabling and disfiguring disease currently
believe our patent to be infringed by Apotex’s product and will affects 120 million people and threatens a further one billion in
appeal against the ruling. Also, we will continue to pursue some of the poorest nations of the world. To date,
litigation for infringement of other patents relating to Paxilagainst GlaxoSmithKline has donated 145 million tablets as part of our
Apotex and other generics companies in the USA. 20-year commitment to eradicate this disease.
As a result of these pending matters, the possible timing of generic The Guardian newspaper’s ‘Giving List’ recently recognised that
competition to Paxilin the USA is unclear. Consequently, GlaxoSmithKline’s total global community expenditure in 2001 was
GlaxoSmithKline’s published earnings guidance for 2003 remains as greater than that of any other British company. We increased our
previously stated. The guidance is for high single digit percentage comprehensive programme of social investment in 2002, investing
growth in business performance earnings per share at constant £239 million in support of global community programmes, product
exchange rates, assuming there is no generic competition to Paxil donations and charitable contributions.
in the USA. If a generic launch of paroxetine hydrochloride became
imminent, GlaxoSmithKline would reassess this guidance. Corporate governance
Corporate governance continues to be a high profile issue with the
Uptake of Paxil CR, our enhanced form of the antidepressant
publication of the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness of
launched in 2002, has been excellent and it now represents over
Non-Executive Directors and Sir Robert Smith’s Report on audit
30 per cent of Paxil’s new prescriptions in the USA. We also have
committees. In the USA, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act became law in
patent challenges to a number of other products such as Zofran
July 2002 and will have an impact on GlaxoSmithKline in relation
and Lamictal. These cases illustrate an industry-wide trend in which
to certification of the Annual Report on Form 20-F, disclosure
generics companies are filing more patent challenges earlier. We
processes, our relationship with external auditors, internal controls
will obviously defend our intellectual property vigorously.
and a number of governance issues. GlaxoSmithKline regularly
undertakes thorough reviews of the Group’s internal control
Contribution to society
systems and is committed to remaining a leader in governance
The responsible behaviour of all types of organisations, including
processes and structure.
multinational companies, governments and charities, is high on the
public agenda. Last year, in our first report of corporate and social
Acknowledgements
responsibility, we set out our commitment to reflecting ethical,
Our business is to discover effective medicines and healthcare
social and environmental concerns in our business decisions. Our
products for people throughout the world and, as a result, create
second report, updating our activities in 2002, is being published
shareholder value. We are in a great position to build on the
at the same time as this Annual Report and covers the issues that
success of the last year, to build the best pipeline in the industry
have generated significant interest from stakeholders.
and launch further new products. We extend our thanks to all our
The Corporate and Social Responsibility Report also includes some employees who are so committed to making this happen.
indicators to show our progress in addressing these issues.
Bob Ingram, Chief Operating Officer and President, Pharmaceutical
Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our business and Operations, retired at the end of December but will continue to
inherent in our mission. GlaxoSmithKline makes a significant work part-time as Vice Chairman of Pharmaceuticals and special
positive contribution to society around the world, through the advisor to the Group. We would like to express our appreciation
medicines, vaccines and healthcare products that we research, for his contribution to the company and in particular for his
develop, manufacture and sell. significant role in making the merger a success.
Our products must improve people’s lives and ensure a profitable On behalf of the Board and the Corporate Executive Team, we also
and sustainable future for our business. We also understand that thank you, our shareholders, for your support and hope that you
stakeholders, including employees, want to know how we make share our enthusiasm for our company and look forward to its
this profit, and need to be reassured of the sound ethical basis for continued success in 2003.
our business.
Our focus on making a contribution to improving healthcare and
alleviating suffering in the developing world has never been
greater. Significant progress has been made towards tackling the
enormous challenge of HIV/AIDS. By the end of 2002, we had
secured some 120 arrangements to supply preferentially-priced
HIV/AIDS medicines to 50 of the world’s poorest countries.
Shipments of these medicines to the developing world continue to
grow significantly year on year. In September 2002, we further
reduced the preferential prices of our HIV/AIDS medicines by up to
33 per cent.
Sir Christopher Hogg J P Garnier
Chairman Chief Executive Officer06 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
The business
History and development of the company
GlaxoSmithKline plc, and its subsidiary and associated
undertakings, constitute a major global healthcare group
engaged in the creation and discovery, development,
manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical and consumer
health-related products.
GlaxoSmithKline has its corporate head office in the London
area at:
980 Great West Road
Brentford
Middlesex TW8 9GS
England
Tel: 020 8047 5000
GlaxoSmithKline also has operational headquarters in
Philadelphia, PA and Research Triangle Park, NC, USA, and
operations in some 102 countries, with products sold in over
150 countries. The principal research and development (R&D)
facilities are in the UK, the USA, Japan, Italy and Belgium.
Products are currently manufactured in some 38 countries.
The major markets for the Group’s products are the USA, Japan,
France, Germany, theUK and Italy.
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on
6thDecember 1999 under English law. On 27th December 2000
the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
Beecham plc, both English public limited companies, by way of a
scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two companies.
Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were major global
healthcare businesses.
On 1st October 2001 Glaxo Wellcome plc changed its name to
GlaxoSmithKline Services plc and on 28th March 2002 became
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited. Historical references to Glaxo
Wellcome plc in this document have not been changed.
Business segments
GlaxoSmithKline operates principally in two industry segments:
• Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines)
• Consumer Healthcare (over-the-counter medicines, oral care
and nutritional healthcare).Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 07
Products – Pharmaceuticals
Therapeutic area Trade mark Compound Mechanism Indication (may vary by country)
Central nervous Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine selective serotonin re-uptake depression, panic, anxiety
system inhibitor
Wellbutrin bupropion noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor depression
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan 5HT agonist migraine, cluster headache
1
Naramig/Amerge naratriptan 5HT agonist migraine
1
Lamictal lamotrigine sodium channel modulator epilepsy
Requip ropinirole dopamine D2 agonist Parkinson’s disease
Zyban bupropion SR noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor smoking addiction
Respiratory Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate inhaled anti-inflammatory asthma, bronchial conditions
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate bronchodilator bronchial asthma, bronchitis
Seretide/Advair salmeterol and fluticasone bronchodilator/anti-inflammatory asthma
propionate
Flixonase/Flonase fluticasone propionate intranasal anti-inflammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis
Ventolin salbutamol/albuterol bronchodilator bronchial asthma, bronchitis
Becotide/Beclovent beclomethasone dipropionate inhaled anti-inflammatory bronchial asthma, bronchitis
Beconase beclomethasone dipropionate intranasal anti-inflammatory hayfever, perennial rhinitis
Anti-virals Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
and abacavir
Combivir/Biovir lamivudine and zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Epivir/3TC lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Retrovir/AZT zidovudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Ziagen abacavir reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Agenerase amprenavir protease inhibitor HIV/AIDS
Valtrex/Zelitrex valaciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor shingles, genital herpes
Zovirax aciclovir DNA polymerase inhibitor herpes infections, shingles,
chicken pox, cold sores
Zeffix/Heptavir/ lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor chronic hepatitis B infection
Heptodin/Epivir HBV
Anti-bacterials Augmentin amoxicillin/ broad spectrum oral/injectable common infections
/anti-malarials clavulanate potassium antibiotic
Zinnat/Ceftin cefuroxime axetil oral antibiotic common infections
Fortum/Fortaz ceftazidime injectable antibiotic severe, life threatening infections
Bactroban mupirocin topical antibiotic skin infections
Amoxil amoxicillin broad spectrum oral/injectable common infections
antibiotic
Malarone atovaquone/proguanil electron transport system treatment and prophylaxis of malaria
Metabolic and Avandia rosiglitazone PPAR-gamma agonist type 2 diabetes
gastro-intestinal Avandamet rosiglitazone + metformin PPAR-gamma agonist+ type 2 diabetes
hydrochloride antihyperglycemic agent
metformin
Zantac ranitidine hydrochloride anti-secretory duodenal ulcers, stomach ulcers,
reflux and dyspepsia
Avodart dutasteride selective inhibitor type I & II benign prostatic hyperplasia
isoforms 5AR
Vaccines Havrix hepatitis A
Engerix-B hepatitis B
Twinrix hepatitis A and B
Infanrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis
Oncology Zofran ondansetron 5HT receptor antagonist nausea and vomiting from cancer
3
and emesis therapy
Hycamtin topotecan topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ovarian cancer, small cell lung cancer
Navelbine vinorelbine cytotoxic non-small cell lung cancer, breast
cancer
Cardiovascular Coreg carvedilol alpha/beta blocker congestive heart failure
Lanoxin digoxin cardiac anti-arrhythmic congestive heart failure,
cardiac arrhythmia
Flolan epoprostenol inhibitor of blood clotting primary pulmonary hypertension
Lacipil lacidipine calcium channel blocker hypertension
Pritor telmisartan angiotensin II antagonist hypertension
Arthritis Relafen nabumetone non steroidal anti-inflammatory osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis08 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Products – Pharmaceuticals (by therapeutic area) Anti-virals
Combivir, a combination of Retrovirand Epivir, has consolidated
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products are presently
the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the
directed to 10 therapeutic areas. An analysis of salesby these
cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens. Physician
therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are
acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on
setout below:
minimising the ‘pill burden’ faced by patients.
2002 2001 2000
Sales by therapeutic area £m £m £m Ziagenis a reverse transcriptase inhibitor. The product’s potency,
Central nervous system 4,511 4,007 3,279 ease of use and resistance profile allow it to play a significant role
Respiratory 3,987 3,537 2,789 in a variety of highly active, well tolerated andsimplified HIV
Anti-virals 2,299 2,128 1,899 treatment regimens.
Anti-bacterials/anti-malarials 2,210 2,604 2,472
Triziviris a combination of Combivirand Ziagen, combining three
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 1,429 1,480 1,232
anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Vaccines 1,080 948 842
Oncology and emesis 977 838 710 Ageneraseis a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV,
Cardiovascular 655 591 463 the first medicine of this class to be brought to the market by
Arthritis 23 156 210 GlaxoSmithKline. Agenerasehas a twice daily dosing regimen
Others 824 916 1,086 and no significant food or drink restrictions.
Divested products – – 447
Zeffixhas been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China
17,995 17,205 15,429 and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
Valtrexis a treatment for chicken pox, zoster (shingles), cold sores
Central nervous system (CNS) and episodic genital herpes as well as the long term suppression of
Seroxat/Paxilis a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) genital herpes. Valtrex supersedes Zovirax, which is also widely
approved for depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder, used to treat herpes infections.
post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder and general
anxiety disorder. Paxil CR, a controlled release version, was Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
launched in the USA in 2002. Augmentinis a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the
treatment of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is
Wellbutrinis an anti-depressant, available in the USA in normal
particularly effective against respiratory tract infections. Augmentin
orsustained release tablet formulations.
ES-600is an extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat
Imigran/Imitrexis a 5HT receptor agonist used for the treatment children with recurrent or persistent middle ear infections.
1
ofsevere or frequent migraine and cluster headache, and has Augmentin XRis an extra strength tablet form for adults to combat
become the reference product in this sector. Naramig/Amergeis a the growing problem of bacterial resistance in the community.
newer migraine product.
Zinnatis an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired
Lamictalis a treatment for epilepsy. Used alone or in combination infections of the lower respiratory tract. Fortumis used in the
with other products, it has achieved penetration of this mature hospital-based injectable antibiotics market.
market through successful treatment of severe cases.
Malaroneis an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and
Requipis a specific dopamine D2-like receptor agonist for the prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
treatment ofParkinson’s disease.
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
Zybanis a nicotine-free prescription medicine, available
Avandiais a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the
asasustained-release tablet, for treating the problem of
underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes. Avandametis a
smokingaddiction.
combination of Avandiaand metformin HCI; it is the first medicine
that targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose production in
Respiratory
one convenient pill.
Seretide/Advair, a combination of Sereventand Flixotide, offers
along-acting bronchodilator and an anti-inflammatory in a single Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range
inhaler. ofgastric acid related disorders, continues to play a major role in a
number of markets, even where patent protection has been lost.
Sereventis a long-acting bronchodilator and Ventolinis a selective
short-acting bronchodilator.
Vaccines
Flixotide/Floventand Becotide/Becloventare inhaled steroids for the GlaxoSmithKline markets a range of hepatitis vaccines. Havrix
treatment of inflammation associated with bronchial asthma and protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-Bagainst hepatitis B.
chronic bronchitis. Twinrixis a combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, protecting against
both diseases with one vaccine and available in both adult and
Flixonase/Flonaseand Beconaseare intra-nasal preparations for the
paediatric strengths.
treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
Infanrixis a range of paediatric vaccine combinations. Infanrix
provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis
(whooping cough). Infanrix PeNta/Pediarix provides additional
protection against hepatitis B and polio, andInfanrix HeXafurther
adds protection against haemophilus influenzae type b, which
causesmeningitis.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 09
Additionally, GlaxoSmithKline markets Priorix,a measles, The major products are:
mumps and rubella vaccine, Typherix, a vaccine for protection
Category Product
against typhoid fever, and Varilrix, a vaccine against varicella or
chicken pox. Over-the-counter medicines
Analgesics Panadol
Oncology and emesis Dermatologicals Oxy
Zofranis used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with Zovirax
chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in Abreva
bothoral and injectable forms. It is also approved for use in the Gastro-intestinal Tums
prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting. Citrucel
Respiratory tract Contac
Hycamtinis a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and Beechams
forsmall cell lung cancer. Smoking control Commit
Navelbine is approved as first line treatment of non-small cell lung Nicorette
cancer in combination with cisplatin or as a single agent. NicoDerm CQ
NiQuitin CQ
Cardiovascular Nicabate CQ
Coregis an alpha/beta blocker which has been proven to be Natural wellness support Abtei
effective intreating mild, moderate and severe heart failure. Oral care Aquafresh
GlaxoSmithKline has sole marketing rights in the USA. Corega
DrBest
Arthritis Macleans
Relafenis a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for the treatment Odol
of arthritis. Polident
Poligrip
Other Sensodyne
The other category includes the Group’s principal dermatological
Nutritional healthcare Horlicks
products; Betnovate, thehigher potency Dermovateand the newer
Lucozade
Cutivateare anti-inflammatory steroid products used to treat skin
Ribena
diseases suchas eczema and psoriasis.
Divested products Over-the-counter medicines
In accordance with agreements for regulatory approvals of the The leading products are Panadol, a widely available
merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham, the paracetamol/acetominophen analgesic; Nicorettegum; the
products Kytril, for the treatment of chemotherapy – and Nicoderm,NiQuitinCQand Nicabaterange of smoking control
radiotherapy–induced nausea and vomiting, and Famvir, an patches; Tums, a calcium based antacid; Citrucellaxative; Contac
anti-viral for the treatment of shingles and herpes, were divested for the treatment of colds and influenza; Abtei, a natural
inDecember 2000. medicines and vitamin range; Oxyacne treatment and Zovirax
and Abreva for the treatment of cold sores.
Products – Consumer Healthcare
In 2002, GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare introduced two
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal consumer healthcare products are new prescription to over-the-counter switches:
presently directedto three major areas. An analysis of sales by
these areas isset out below: • Eumovate, a cream for clearing the skin flare-up from
dermatitis and eczema in the UK
2002 2001 2000
• Beconase Allergy 24 hoursfor hayfever in Australia.
£m £m £m
Over-the-counter medicines 1,586 1,603 1,454
Oral care
Oral care 1,052 1,106 642
The leading oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes
Nutritional healthcare 579 575 535
under the Aquafresh, Sensodyne, Macleansand Odolbrand
Divested products – – 19
names, and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh,
3,217 3,284 2,650 Sensodyneand Dr Bestnames. In addition, denture care products
are available principally under the Polident, Poligripand Corega
At constant exchange rates 2002 sales were two per cent higher brand names.
than 2001.
Nutritional healthcare
The leading products in this category are Lucozadeglucose
energy and sports drinks, Ribenablackcurrant-based juice drink
rich in vitamin C, and Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted
food and chocolate drinks.10 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Operating environment
Competition – Pharmaceuticals Respiratory
GlaxoSmithKline’s respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
Seretide/Advair, gaining patients from competitor products and
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal competitors are large international
the cannibalisation of Sereventand Flixotide. Ventolinand Becotide
pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources. Some of
have faced generic competition for some years but have
these companies and their major products are mentioned below.
maintained significant sales.
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other
Major respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially
products during the period of patent protection and, once off
in the USA, Symbicort from AstraZeneca, primarily in the European
patent, from generic versions. The manufacturers of generic
Union and Spiriva from Pfizer/Boehringer Ingelheim, primarily in
products typically donot bear significant research and development
Europe.
costs and consequently areable to offer their products at
considerably lower prices than thebranded competitors. A research
Anti-virals
and development based pharmaceutical company will normally
The major competitors in the HIV market are Bristol Myers Squibb,
seek to achieve a sufficiently high profit margin and sales volume
Merck and Pfizer amongst others.
during the period of patent protection to repay the original
investment and to fund research forthe future. Competition from
GlaxoSmithKline has a pioneering role in the HIV market, with
generic products generally occurs as patents in major markets
Retrovirand Epiviracting as the cornerstone of combination
expire. Increasingly patent challenges are made prior to patent
therapy, and available as Combivirin a single tablet. The launches
expiry.
of Ziagen, Ageneraseand Trizivirhave broadened theGroup’s
GlaxoSmithKline undertakes a range of activities to maximise the portfolio of HIV products. Valtrexhas helped strengthen the
value of its intellectual property, including introducing innovative Group’s position in the anti-herpes area, although Zoviraxfaces
products into as many markets as possible, accelerating the process competition from generic aciclovir. Both Valtrexand Zovirax
to bring new products tomarket and increasing brand recognition compete with Novartis’ Famvir. Zeffixwas the first anti-viral on the
among customers. market to treat Hepatitis B. Gilead’s Hepsera is the second and was
approved by the USFood and Drug Administration (FDA) in
GlaxoSmithKline believes that its competitive position is dependent
September 2002.
upon the discovery and development of new products, together
with effective marketing of existing products. Within the
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
pharmaceutical industry, the introduction of new products and
In 2002 generic versions of both Augmentinand Ceftin/Zinnat
processes by competitors may affect pricing levels or result in
were introduced in the USA, following successful legal challenges
product replacement. There can be no assurance that products may
by generic manufacturers (see Note 30 to the Financial statements,
not become outmoded, notwithstanding patent or trade mark
‘Legal proceedings’). Augmentinhas already lost patent protection
protection. In addition, increasing government and other pressure
in various countries in Europe. The recently launched Augmentin
for physicians and patients to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather
XR, and Augmentin EScompete against a broad range of other
than brand-name medicines, may increase competition for
branded and generic antibiotics. Malarone’s safety profile and
products that are no longer protected by patent.
convenient dosing regimen have helped put this product in a
strong position versus mefloquine following its recent launch for
CNS disorders
malaria prophylaxis.
Major competitors to Paxilin the USA selective serotonin re-uptake
inhibitor (SSRI) market are fluoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lilly’s
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
Prozac, Zoloft from Pfizer, Forest Laboratories’ Celexa and Lexapro.
The major competitor for Avandiais Takeda Chemical’s Actos,
The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrinare SSRIs and
which is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA.
Effexor XR, a Wyeth product. The success of Seroxat/Paxiland
Wellbutrin has made them a target for generic manufacturers,
Vaccines
against whom GlaxoSmithKline continues to respond appropriately
GlaxoSmithKline’s major competitors in the vaccine market include
(see Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’).
Aventis Pasteur (AP), Merck and Wyeth. Engerix-Band Havrix
Imigranhas grown to be one of GlaxoSmithKline’s leading products compete with vaccines produced by AP and Merck – Comvax and
through addressing the previously unmet needs of migraine Recombivax HB for hepatitis B, and Vaqta and Avaxim for hepatitis
sufferers. Although other companies have launched competing A. Infanrix’smajor competitor is AP’s range of DTPa-based
products, newer formulations of Imigran,such as the nasal spray, combination vaccines.
and the introduction of Naramighave helped the Group to retain
its lead over its competitors in the migraine market and maintain
growth.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 11
Competition – Consumer Healthcare Grant of a marketing authorisation affords the Group a protection
period during which a competitor cannot rely on confidential data
The main competitors in the Group’s Consumer Healthcare markets
in the regulatory file as a basis for its own marketing authorisation.
include the major international companies Colgate-Palmolive,
The data protection period begins on thedate an authorisation is
Johnson &Johnson, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, Unilever and Wyeth.
first granted in the European Union andexpires after ten years for
In addition, there are many other companies that compete with
authorisations granted via the Centralised Procedure, or ten or six
GlaxoSmithKline in selected markets.
years for authorisations grantedvia the Mutual Recognition
The major competitor products in over-the-counter (OTC) procedure, depending onthecountry concerned.
medicines are:
In the USA, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term
• in the USA:Metamucil (laxative), Clearasil (acne treatment), Restoration Act of 1984 (Hatch-Waxman) established the current
Pepcid (indigestion) and private label smoking control framework for approval of generic drugs, including related patent
products. and data protection provisions. Under Hatch-Waxman, the sponsor
• in the UK: Lemsip (cold remedy), Nurofen and Anadin of an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) can receive
(analgesics), and Nicorette and Nicotinell (smoking control marketing approval without submitting any safety or efficacy data.
remedies). It can rely on the pioneer company’s extensive pre-clinical and
clinical development data, provided the proposed generic drug has
In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicksare
been demonstrated to be bioequivalent to the pioneer product.
Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. The
However, generic drug approvals are subject to data protection
competitors to Ribenaare primarily local fruit juice products while
periods of five years for new chemical entities and three years for
Lucozadecompetes with other energy drinks.
any modifications supported by new clinical studies. Moreover,
GlaxoSmithKline holds leading global positions in all its key under the provisions of Hatch-Waxman, the filing of an ANDAcan
consumer product areas. Worldwide it is the second largest in Oral trigger procedures that may allow patent holders to initiate patent
care and the third largest in OTC medicines. In Nutritional infringement litigation with the significant procedural advantage of
healthcare it holds the leading position in the UK, India and being assured that the FDA’s approval of the proposed generic
Ireland. product will be stayed for up to 30 months, pending resolution of
the litigation. These procedures have generated litigation and
Regulation – Pharmaceuticals controversy, particularly because, as currently applied, they have
resulted in multiple, non-concurrent 30-month stays for some
The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated.
proposed generic products. The FDAhas proposed changes to its
National regulatory authorities administer a panoply of laws
regulations to address certain aspects of the procedures that have
andregulations governing the testing, approval, manufacturing,
generated litigation and controversy, and reform legislation has
labelling and marketing of drugs and also review the safety
also been proposed in the US Congress.
andefficacy of pharmaceutical products. These regulatory
requirements are a major factor in determining whether a In the USA, the second reauthorisation of the Prescription Drug
substance can be developed into a marketable product and the User Fee Act came into effect on 1st October 2002 (PDUFA III).
amount of time and expense associated with such development.
A recent General Accounting Office report to the Senate
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, has noted a
products be authorised or registered prior to marketing and that gradual increase in the median time to gain approval for drugs
such authorisation or registration be maintained subsequently. with a standard review designation. Since 1995, the approval time
for priority review drugs, judged by the FDA to represent a
The national regulatory authorities in many jurisdictions, including
significant therapeutic advance, has remained constant, with a
the USA, the European Union, Japan and Australia, have high
median time for approval of six months.
standards of technical appraisal and consequently the introduction
of new pharmaceutical products generally entails a lengthy There has been an increasing gap between the approval times for
approvalprocess. priority and standard applications. The approval time for drugs
designated as a standard review reached a low of about
In the European Union, there are two procedures for obtaining
13 months in 1998 before rising to about 20 months in 2000
marketing authorisations for medicinal products:
and 2001.
• The Centralised Procedure, with applications made direct to
It remains to be seen if the substantial additional resources funded
theEuropean Medicines Evaluation Agency and leading to an
under PDUFA III will result in a reduction of overall approval times
authorisation valid in all member states, is compulsory for
for all drugs and biologics. The review times for certain biologics,
products derived from biotechnology and optional for new
other than vaccines, may be substantially impacted by a recently
activesubstances and other innovative medicinal products.
announced consolidation of the review activities to the Center for
• The Mutual Recognition Procedure, which is applicable to the
Drug Evaluation and Research. These activities had previously been
majority of conventional medicinal products, operates by mutual
carried out by the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research.
recognition of national marketing authorisations; where
agreement cannot be reached, it is resolved by procedure of
binding arbitration.12 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Over the last decade, regulatory authorities have focused Value for money
significant attention on measures to manage the risk associated It is becoming increasingly necessary to demonstrate the value for
with the use of prescription products. This is particularly noticeable money of new products, in particular the impact upon drug
in the USA, where the FDA and the pharmaceutical industry have budget expenditure and the burden of the disease that will be
been subjected to intense public scrutiny of the adequacy of treated.
measures taken to protect the public health. Substantial funding
In some markets, the need to satisfy healthcare purchasers as to
for the FDA to strengthen post market surveillance activities was
value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for product
included under PDUFA III. Under performance goals associated
acceptance over and above the regulatory tests ofsafety, efficacy
with the legislation, drug manufacturers are encouraged to submit
and quality. This can delay bringing effective and improved
voluntarily proposed Risk Management Plans as part of applications
medicines to the market and reduce their effective patent
for marketing new drugs. These recent developments represent an
protection time.
additional challenge to the market registration process in the USA.
In many markets it is becoming increasingly difficult for a
On 7th June 2002, the FDA announced approval of a supplemental
significantly improved therapy to obtain a premium price over
New Drug Application (sNDA) that allows restricted marketing of
existing medication. Philosophies founded on value-based pricing
Lotronex(alosetron hydrochloride) to treat only women with severe
are difficult to follow in such circumstances although in the USA
diarrhoea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The
it is still possible to price products to reflect their value.
November 2002 reintroduction followed an advisory committee
review and implementation of a FDA-GlaxoSmithKline agreed risk It is not possible to predict whether, and to what extent, the
management programme intended to ensure patients and Group’sbusiness may be affected by future legislative and
physicians are fully informed of possible risks and benefits of regulatory developments relating to specific pharmaceutical
Lotronex. products or their price.
Across International markets, countries outside the USA and
Regulation – Consumer Healthcare
Europe, the regulatory environment continues to be extremely
varied and challenging. GlaxoSmithKline anticipates that the The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation
introduction of new products will continue to require substantial for the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing
effort, time and expense to comply with regulatory requirements. of products. In many countries high standards of technical
appraisal entail a lengthy approval process before a new product
Price controls is launched.
In manycountries the prices of pharmaceutical products are
National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the
controlled by law. Governments may also influence prices through
switch of products from prescription to OTC. The requirements
their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear
include long-term experience of the quality, safety and efficacy
a large part of the cost of supplying products to consumers.
oftheproduct in a wide patient population and data to confirm
In the USA, debate over the reform of the healthcare system has thatthe relevant condition is both self-limiting and can easily be
increased the focus on pricing. Currently there are no government diagnosed bythe consumer.
price controls over private sector purchases, but federal legislation
requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates
on certain drugs in order to be eligible for reimbursement under
Medicaid and other federal healthcare programmes.
In Europe, historically affected by government regulation in pricing
and reimbursement, the pharmaceutical industry continues to
experience pressure on its prices through a range of measures,
including across-the-board cuts, linking to low-cost countries, price
referencing and delays in agreeing reimbursement. There is an
increasing pressure for generic substitution and cross-border
imports fromlow-priced markets may exert a commercial pressure
on in-countrypricing.
In Japan, discussions are ongoing as to which new price and
reimbursement controls the government will introduce.
During 2002, the worldwide pharmaceutical market continued to
experience increasing pressure on pricing and reimbursement from
governments and healthcare providers, though it is non-price
factors, new products and higher volumes, which are principally
driving the growth of pharmaceutical expenditure.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 13
Operating activities
Marketing and distribution Direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising is a major component of
product marketing in the USA. DTC advertisements are now the
GlaxoSmithKline sells its products worldwide through an
primary source of information for patients requesting specific
extensivenetwork of subsidiaries, licensees and distributors.
brand name products from their physicians in the USA.
The gross profit margins earned on sales of pharmaceutical
Outside the USA, DTC is either prohibited or has a more limited
products are generally higher than those earned on sales of
rolein informing patients. In the European Union, DTC of
consumer products, reflecting the many risks and uncertainties
prescription-only products is currently prohibited. In Australia, the
inherent in developing and marketing pharmaceuticals. These risks
government allows DTC advertising of pharmacy-only products
include the high level of research and development expenditure
subject to certain safeguards. In New Zealand, DTC is allowed and
required to discover, test and obtain patent protection for new
self-regulated by the industry in collaboration with the Advertising
products and the competition from new and generic products.
Standards Agency. Other markets allow DTC, but to date the
GlaxoSmithKline’s worldwide operation is subject to a number of impact has been more limited.
risks inherent in conducting business in certain countries, including
In addition to the direct marketing of products by its subsidiaries
possible nationalisation, expropriation and other restrictive
GlaxoSmithKline has entered into agreements withother
government actions such as capital regulation. In addition, currency
pharmaceutical companies for the co-marketing and co-promotion
fluctuations and other changes in economic conditions may occur,
of their products in many markets, for example Levitra with Bayer.
which can have either a favourable or unfavourable effect on
trading income. The Group does not regard these factors as
Marketing and distribution – Consumer Healthcare
deterrents to further expansion of its international operations.
However, it closely reviews its methods of operation, particularly in The principal markets for Consumer Healthcare’s OTC medicines
developing countries, and develops strategies to respond to are the USA, the UK, Germany, Australia, Argentina, Italy, Mexico,
changing economic and political conditions. Japan, Canada and France. The principal markets for the Oral care
products are the USA, Germany and the UK. The nutritional drinks
Marketing and distribution – Pharmaceuticals business is particularly strong in the UK, Ireland and India, although
the range of products is available in other markets.
An analysis of total pharmaceutical sales, including in 2000
divested products, by geographic region is set out below: OTC and Oral care products are primarily distributed through
pharmacy or mass market outlets either directly or through
2002 2001 2000
Sales by geographic region £m £m £m wholesalers. Nutritional healthcare products are distributed through
a similar but more extensive retail and wholesale network.
USA 9,797 9,037 7,705
Europe 4,701 4,561 4,268
International: Manufacture and supply
Asia Pacific 1,177 1,119 1,049 GlaxoSmithKline has a large portfolio of products, ranging from
Japan 712 741 832 tablets and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over
Latin America 606 790 682 36,000 different pack sizes and presentations.
Middle East, Africa 575 539 511
Canada 427 418 382 Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a
therapeutic active ingredient (bulk active) in a selected formulation.
17,995 17,205 15,429
Global Manufacture & Supply (GMS) develops manufacturing
processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at
GlaxoSmithKline sells its prescription medicines primarily to
'primary' manufacturing sites. Converting active compounds into a
wholesale drug distributors, independent and chain retail
finished dosage formulation is the responsibility of the 'secondary'
pharmacies, physicians, hospitals, clinics, government entities and
manufacturing sites.
other institutions. These products are ordinarily dispensed to the
public by pharmacies through prescriptions written by doctors in GMS operates as a single global network of 95 sites in 38
hospitals or in doctors’ surgeries. countries. Each year GMS produces around 5,900 tonnes of bulk
actives and over four billion packs, which are packaged and
In the USA, the world’s largest pharmaceutical market, the
delivered for sale in over 150 countries. Throughout the world it
pressureto contain healthcare costs has encouraged the growth
also supports approximately 2,000 new product and line extension
of managed care organisations and pharmacy benefit managers.
launches a year.
These intermediaries use a range of methods to lower costs,
including the substitution of generic products or other cheaper GMS is focused on delivering:
therapies for branded products prescribed by doctors. Because of
• a secure source of supply of high quality products
its increasing importance as a supplier of healthcare to the
• compliance with regulatory requirements and customer
community, GlaxoSmithKline contracts with the managed care
expectations
sector through a small number of wholesalers.
• best in class cost
In each market, GlaxoSmithKline deploys salesforces of • leading edge practices and performance – at sites, in
representatives and supporting medical staff to promote its procurement and in other global functions.
prescription products to medical prescribers and healthcare
purchasers through personal visits. Organisation
GMS operations are structured into Supply Chains and Regions.
Promotion of GlaxoSmithKline’s products is supplemented by
scientific seminars, advertising in medical and other journals,
television advertising, provision of samples, direct mailing and
information contained on the Group’s website.14 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Primary supply chain Vaccines supply chain
This is a global organisation with 13 sites, spread across 6 Vaccine production is located principally at Rixensart, Belgium, with
countries, where a broad range of active ingredients for antibiotic six other sites worldwide. Managing the vaccine supply chain
and non-antibiotic products are manufactured and packaged. The involves anticipating market needs and using a flexible approach to
sites are located in Australia, India, Ireland, Singapore, the UK and be able to meet fluctuations in demand. These are based on
the USA. The majority of the active ingredients manufactured by forecasts from the different markets and firm orders from health
the primary supply chain are supplied to the secondary authorities for mass vaccination campaigns. Bulk, filling and
pharmaceutical sites in Europe, North America and International. packaging is carefully balanced and stocking of vaccines helps
manage short-term increases in demand. Such increases are
Secondary supply chain prompted by disease outbreaks or increased demand from the
European region public owing to disease awareness campaigns.
There are 17 sites in the European region spread across eight
countries. Between them the European sites manufacture nearly Consumer Healthcare supply chain
all of the major pharmaceutical products marketed globally by There are 27 Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites spread
GlaxoSmithKline in a wide variety of finished dosage forms. across 16 countries. The Consumer Healthcare supply chain is
diverse and includes the manufacturing and supply of OTC
North America region medicines, Oral care, Nutritional healthcare and Smoking control
There are six pharmaceutical sites in the North America region products. As well as internal facilities, over 230 contract suppliers
located in Puerto Rico, Canada and the USA. are used worldwide.
International region Research and development – Pharmaceuticals
The International region comprises 32 manufacturing sites, in
The global biological and pharmaceutical Research and
19 countries, spread across six distinct areas. There are five sites in
Development (R&D) function in GlaxoSmithKline is responsible for
Middle East/Africa, 17 sites spread across the Asia Pacific area,
discovering, developing, registering, commercialising and
four sites in China, one in Japan and five in Latin America.
supporting effective marketing of innovative prescription
medicines, vaccines and delivery systems for the treatment and
GlaxoSmithKline integration
prevention of human disease.
This long-term, integrated change programme implemented at the
time of the merger is called the Global Supply Network (GSN) and Fundamental to this goal is a thorough understanding of the
is structured to deliver benefits through five major streams of diseases under investigation, involving pioneering work ingenetics
activity: and predictive medicine, as well as more traditional research
disciplines. In addition to the work to create new medicines and
• Reduction in above-site infrastructure and costs
vaccines, extensive efforts are made to gain a clear understanding
• Procurement initiatives
of the unmet needs of patientsand of healthcare providers and
• Continued network rationalisation
payers as a guide to the overall direction of R&D.
• Logistics improvements
• Operational excellence and lean sigma improvements. In 2002 GlaxoSmithKline invested over £2.6 billion in
pharmaceuticals R&D. R&D is an organisation that benefits from
As part of the network rationalisation plan, production ceased in the insights of top scientists around the world and employs over
2002 at 12 sites in countries which included Argentina, India, 15,000 staff in biological and pharmaceutical R&D activities, at
Japan, Kenya, Mexico, South Africa, Taiwan, Venezuela and the more than 20 sites worldwide, including:
USA. The disposal or closure of further sites were announced in
• UK: Beckenham, Brentford, Cambridge, Dartford,
the year.
Greenford, Harlow, Stevenage, Tonbridge, Ware,
Welwyn
External suppliers
• USA: Bristol, Tennessee; Philadelphia, Upper Merion and
Procurement is a global function supporting all functions and areas
Upper Providence, Pennsylvania; Research Triangle
of the GlaxoSmithKline business. Manufacturing is one of the
Park, North Carolina
largest areas with over £2 billion spent with many external
• Belgium: Rixensart
suppliers every year, including the purchase of active ingredients,
• Canada: Mississauga
chemical intermediates, part-finished and finished products. GMS
• France: Les Ulis, Evreux
has taken appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any
• Italy: Verona
disruption resulting from interrupted external supply through
• Japan: Tsukuba Science City, Takasaki
appropriate stock levels, contracting and alternative registered
• Spain: Tres Cantos, Madrid.
suppliers.
During 2002, R&D continued to deliver a range of products to the
market and accelerated progress in the early stages of
development. The extensive in-licensing activity begun in 2001 has
continued and both the late-stage and the earlier pipeline have
been significantly enhanced. Practical prioritisation and
management of the portfolio of compounds in development has
also been a focus, ensuring that GlaxoSmithKline R&D invests its
resource to achieve the optimum value and deliver new medicines
to patients.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 15
Product development pipeline
The product development pipeline set out below shows considerable breadth and depth: at the end of 2002 GlaxoSmithKline had 177
pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in development, of which 123 are in the clinic.
Key
(v) Vaccine Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
(p) Pharmaccine in volunteers
* Compounds in Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals
LLC joint venture Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of
** In-license or other alliance relationship with third party efficacy, conducted in a small number of patients
S Date of first submission
A Date of first Regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo
EU approval letter) and/or established treatment) in patients to
AL Approvable letter establish clinical benefit and safety
MAA: Marketing authorisation application (Europe)
NDA: New drug application (USA)
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Cardiovascular, Urogenital &Metabolic
249417 anti-Factor IX monoclonal antibody stroke I
427353 beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes I
473178 thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications I
of cardiovascular disease
501516 peroxisome proliferator-activator dyslipidaemia I
receptor (PPAR)agonist
590735 PPAR agonist dyslipidaemia I
677954 PPAR agonist type 2 diabetes I
843362 (NIN-058)** oral insulin analogue type 2 diabetes I
181771 CCK-A agonist obesity II
424323** indirect thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications II
of cardiovascular disease
480848 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis II
876167 (BVT933)** 5HT2c agonist obesity II
piboserod (207266) 5HT4 antagonist atrial fibrillation II
Avandia + sulphonylurea PPAR gamma agonist plus sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes III
Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor prostate cancer prevention III
nesiritide** recombinant beta-type natriuretic peptide acute heart failure Submitted S:Sep02 N/A
Levitra(vardenafil)** PDE-V inhibitor erectile dysfunction Submitted S:Jan02 AL:Jul02
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist type 2 diabetes – in combination with insulin Submitted AL:Feb01
Avandamet PPAR gamma agonist plus metformin type 2 diabetes Approved S:Oct02 A:Oct02
(Avandia+ metformin) combination tablet
Infectious Diseases
275833 topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections I 2005 2005
Lapdap+ artesunate antifolate + artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria I 2005 N/A
270773** phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II
Augmentin(granules)** beta lactam antibiotic respiratory tract infections (incl. penicillin-resistant II 2004 N/A
S. pneumoniae) – modified release granule formulation
Augmentin- ES Chewable beta lactam antibiotic acute otitis media (incl. penicillin-resistant III N/A 2003
S. pneumoniae) – high-dose chewable tablet
AugmentinXR beta lactam antibiotic treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis III 2003 2003
(AECB), including complicated AECB
oxibendazole polymerase inhibitor treatment of adult & paediatric helminth III 2004 N/A
intestinal infections
sitamaquine unknown treatment of visceral leishmaniasis III 2003 N/A
tafenoquine (252263)** 8-aminoquinoline malaria prophylaxis (adults) III 2005 2005
Lapdap antifolate treatment of uncomplicated malaria Submitted S:Oct02 N/A
Anti-virals
640385** aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV infections I
695634 non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV infections I
810781 (S-1360)* HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections II
Ziagen/Epivir** reverse transcriptase inhibitors HIV infection – combination tablet III 2004 2003
433908** protease inhibitor; amprenavir pro-drug HIV infection Submitted S:Dec02 S:Dec02
Valtrex nucleoside analogue HSV suppression in immunocompromised patients Submitted N/A S:Sep02
Valtrex/Zelitrex nucleoside analogue prevention of Herpes simplex virus (HSV) transmission Submitted S:Nov02 S:Oct0216 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Neurology & Gastrointestinal
234551** endothelin A antagonist stroke I
271046 5HT6 antagonist Alzheimer’s disease & schizophrenia I
683699 (T-0047)** dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis (MS) & inflammatory bowel I
disease (IBD) (also asthma & rheumatoid arthritis (RA))
723620** corticotropin releasing factor (CRF-R1) irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) (also anxiety I
antagonist & depression)
406381 COX-2 inhibitor (second generation) pain II
493838 adenosine A1 agonist neuropathic pain II
737004 (S-0139)* endothelin A antagonist stroke II
737552 (S-8510)* benzodiazepine inverse agonist Alzheimer’s disease & vascular dementia II
carabersat (204269) benzopyran migraine prophylaxis & epilepsy II
Imigran/Imitrex 5HT1 agonist migraine – needle-free injection II 2005 2005
talnetant (223412) tachykinin (NK3) antagonist IBS (also schizophrenia) II 2005 2005
alvimopan (ADL 8-2698)** peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus III 2004 2003
Imigran/Imitrex 5HT1 agonist migraine – fast dissolving tablet III 2003 2003
Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor neuropathic pain III N/A 2004
Requip** non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinson’s disease – controlled release formulation III 2005 2005
Requip non-ergot dopamine agonist restless leg syndrome III 2003 2003
Imigran/Imitrex 5HT1 agonist adolescent migraine – nasal formulation Submitted S:Sep02 AL:Dec00
Oncology, Musculoskeletal & Inflammation
251353 Groß-T CXC chemokine prevention of chemotherapy-induced cytopaenias I
462795 cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis I
485232** recombinant human interleukin-18 immunologically-sensitive cancers (melanoma & I
immunomodulator renal cell)
497115** thrombopoietin agonist chemoprotection I
681323 p38 alpha kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis (also chronic obstructive I
pulmonary disease)
715992** kinesin inhibitor breast & ovarian cancers I
786034 vascular epidermal growth factor 2 tyrosine solid tumours I
kinase inhibitor
topotecan + 120918 topo-isomerase l inhibitor + bioenhancer cancer I
572016 ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor solid tumours (breast & colorectal cancers) II 2004 2004
ethynylcytidine (596168)** selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer first line therapy II 2004 2004
repifermin** keratinocyte Growth Factor-2 mucositis (also wound care & inflammatory II
bowel disease)
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2005 N/A
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy III 2003 2003
– oral formulation
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first line therapy III 2004 2004
ibandronate** bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal III 2004 2004
osteoporosis – monthly oral dosing
ibandronate** bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal III 2004 2004
osteoporosis – quarterly i.v. dosing
Navelbine** vinca alkaloid non-small cell lung cancer – oral therapy III N/A 2003
Bexxar** I131 radiolabelled anti-B1 monoclonal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma Submitted N/A S:Sep00
antibody
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second line therapy Submitted S:Nov02 N/A
ibandronate** bisphosphonate treatment & prevention of postmenopausal Submitted S:Jun02 S:Jul02
osteoporosis – daily oral regimen
Psychiatry
271046 5HT6 antagonist schizophrenia (& Alzheimer’s disease) I
353162 noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression & bipolar disorder I
468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation I
679769 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
723620** corticotropin releasing factor (CRF-R1) anxiety & depression (also IBS) I
antagonist
597599 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety II
talnetant (223412) tachykinin (NK3) antagonist schizophrenia (also for IBS) II
vilazodone (659746) selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) depression II 2005 2004
(EMD 68843)** + 5HT1a partial agonist
Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder – acute treatment III N/A 2006
Paxil CR** SSRI premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), intermittent III N/A 2003
treatment – controlled release formulation
Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder – long-term prophylaxis Submitted S:Aug02 S:Jun02
Paxil CR** SSRI PMDD continuous treatment – controlled Submitted N/A S:Jun02
release formulation
Paxil CR** SSRI social anxiety disorder Submitted N/A S:Dec02
Wellbutrin XL** noradrenaline/dopamine reuptake inhibitor depression – controlled release formulation, Submitted S:Aug02
once daily dosingDescription of businessGlaxoSmithKline 17
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Respiratory
159797 (TD 3327)** beta2 agonist asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) I
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor asthma, COPD I
& allergic rhinitis
597901 beta2 agonist asthma & COPD I
681323 p38 alpha kinase inhibitor COPD (also RA) I
683699 (T-0047)** dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) asthma & RA (also MS & IBD) I
766994 chemokine receptor 3 antagonist asthma & allergic rhinitis I
559090 alpha4 integrin antagonist asthma & allergic rhinitis II
685698 glucocorticoid receptor agonist asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis II
842470 (AWD 12-281)** PDE IV inhibitor asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis II
mepolizumab (240563) anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody asthma & atopic dermatitis II
Ariflo PDE IV inhibitor COPD Submitted 2004 S:Dec02
Non-CFC Metered Dose Inhaler propellants (106642)
Serevent beta2 agonist asthma & COPD III 2004 N/A
Flixotide/Flovent inhaled corticosteroid asthma & COPD Approved A:Apr97 AL:Dec02
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma Approved A:Jun00 AL:Oct01
& Oct02
Diskus/Accuhaler (dry powder inhaler)
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid adult & paediatric asthma – once daily dosing III 2005 2005
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid COPD Submitted S:Sep01 AL:Mar02
& Dec02
Serevent beta2 agonist COPD Approved 2003 A:Mar02
Hepatitis Vaccines
Hepatitis E recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis II
Extra strength hepatitis B recombinant extra strength hepatitis B prophylaxis III 2003 TBD
Twinrix 2 doses recombinant combined hepatitis A and B prophylaxis Approved A:Sep02 2003
(child/adolescent)
Paediatric Vaccines
Rotarix live attenuated – oral rotavirus prophylaxis II 2005
N. meningitidis conjugated meningitis prophylaxis II 2004
Meningitis B (Cuba) subunit meningitis B prophylaxis II TBD
S. pneumoniae paediatric conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children III 2005
MMR-varicella live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella and varicella prophylaxis III 2005
Infanrix/PediarixPeNta- recombinant diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B Approved A:Oct00 A:Dec02
HepB-IPV and inactivated polio prophylaxis
InfanrixHeXa-Hep B- IPV/Hib conjugated/recombinant diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B Approved A:Oct00 TBD
and inactivated polio prophylaxis and
Haemophilus influenzae type B prophylaxis
Other Vaccines
Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine prophylactic use I
HIV recombinant HIV prophylaxis I
New influenza subunit influenza prophylaxis – new delivery I
S. pneumoniae elderly conjugated S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis I
Staphylococcal antibodies** monoclonal antibody prevention of staphylococcal infections I
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) recombinant EBV prophylaxis II
Human papillomavirus (HPV) recombinant prophylaxis of HPV infections II
Malaria recombinant malaria prophylaxis II
Boostrix subunit adolescent/adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus Approved A:Oct00 2004
and pertussis
Boostrix IPV subunit adolescent/adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus, III 2003
pertussis and inactivated polio
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis III
Pharmaccines
GSK/PowderJect** recombinant hepatitis B treatment I
249553 recombinant treatment of lung cancer/melanoma II
The content of the portfolio will change over time as new compounds progress from research to development and from development to
the market. Owing to the nature of the drug development process, it is not unusual for some compounds, especially those in early stage
of investigation, to be terminated as they progress through development.
For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some project types may not have been
identified.18 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Compounds progressed into Phase I clinical development in 2002
During 2002 several discovery projects, listed in the table below, progressed through non-clinical safety testing and into early (Phase I)
clinical development. These compounds are continuing their rigorous non-clinical, clinical and commercial assessments, leading to proof of
concept decisions over the next 12–24 months.
Compound Mechanism Indication
120918 + topotecan multi-drug resistance inhibitor + topoisomerase inhibitor cancer
234551 endothelin A antagonist stroke
274150 iNOS inhibitor asthma
275833 topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections
353162 norepinephrine/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression
462795 cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis
468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation
485232 interleukin 18 cancer
497115 thrombopoietin agonist chemoprotection
559090 alpha4-integrin antagonist allergic rhinitis
597901 inhaled beta2 adrenergic receptor agonist asthma
640385 aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV
677954 PPAR pan agonist diabetes
679769 neurokine 1 antagonist depression
681323 p38 alpha kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis
683699 dual alpha4-integrin antagonist multiple sclerosis/irritable bowel syndrome
685698 inhaled corticosteroid asthma/allergic rhinitis
695634 non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor HIV
715992 kinesin inhibitor cancer
766994 chemokine receptor antagonist asthma
786034 VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor solid tumours
Lapdap+ artesunate chlorproguanil/dapsone combination + artesunate malaria
HIV prophylactic vaccine HIV
Dengue fever vaccine vaccine Dengue fever
Significant regulatory submissions in 2002
Product Country/Region Description
Advair USA labelling for corticosteroid sparing effect of the combination of salmeterol,
a long-acting beta-blocker, and fluticasone, a corticosteroid in a dry powder
Diskusdevice
Ariflo USA cilomilast, a PDE IV inhibitor for the treatment of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease
Avandamet Europe combination of rosiglitazone and metformin for type 2 diabetes
Coreg USA carvedilol, alpha/beta-blocker in-licensed from Roche for cardiac dysfunction
following heart attack
Flixotide Europe lower age limit for fluticasone, an inhaled corticosteroid for asthma
Flovent USA CFC-free metered dose inhaler for fluticasone
ibandronate Europe and USA bisphosphonate, for the treatment of osteoporosis, in-licensed from Roche
Lamictal Europe and USA lamotrigine, a sodium channel blocker for long-term prophylaxis/prevention of
bipolar disorder
Lamictal Japan lamotrigine for epilepsy
Levitra Europe PDE V inhibitor, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, in-licensed from Bayer
nesiritide Europe natriuretic peptide in-licensed from Scios Inc for acute heart failure
Paxil CR USA controlled release (CR) paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor for
the treatment of pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder
Paxil CR USA paroxetine for the treatment of social anxiety disorder
433908 Europe and USA protease inhibitor for HIV
Valtrex USA and Europe valaciclovir, a DNA polymerase inhibitor for the suppression of transmission of
herpes simplex virus
Wellbutrin SR USA additional sustained release (SR) strength of bupropion, a noradrenaline/dopamine
re-uptake inhibitor for the treatment of depression
Wellbutrin XL USA extended release (XL) formulation of bupropion for the treatment of depression.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 19
Product approvals
In 2002, approvals were received for a number of new products, including several significant new indications and formulations for existing
products, as summarised in the table below.
Country/Region
Product (Approval Date) Description
Augmentin XR USA (October) extended release formulation of amoxicillin (a beta-lactam antibiotic)
and clavulanate (a beta lactamase inhibitor) for adult respiratory tract
infections
Avandamet USA (October) fixed dose combination of Avandia and metformin for type 2 diabetes
Avodart USA (October) 2 year data on dutasteride, a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor for the
treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH)
Avodart Europe (July) dutasteride, for the treatment of BPH
Epivir USA (October) once daily dosing with lamivudine, a reverse transcriptase inhibitor, for
HIV
Flixotide Europe (October) lower age limit for fluticasone, an inhaled corticosteroid for asthma
Flonase USA (May) intranasal fluticasone for nasal symptoms
Flutide Japan (October) fluticasone in a CFC-free inhaler
Lotronex USA (June) reintroduction of alosetron for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
Paxil CR USA (February) paroxetine, a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor for panic disorder
Pediarix USA (December) combined diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B and polio vaccine
for children
Serevent Diskus USA (March) dry powder formulation of salmeterol (a long-acting beta blocker) for
COPD
Serevent MDI and Diskus Japan (April) salmeterol in both metered dose and dry powder inhalers for asthma
Sultanol Diskus Japan (March) the short-acting beta blocker salbutamol in a dry powder device for
asthma
Twinrix2 dose Europe (September) combined vaccine for hepatitis A and B
Valtrex USA (September) valaciclovir, a DNA polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of cold sores
Wellbutrin SR USA (June) additional strength of bupropion for depression
Zovirax cream USA(December) aciclovir, a DNA polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of cold sores
Zylorictablets Japan (March) allopurinol, a xanthine-oxidase inhibitor, for the treatment of gout
R&D Processes – Discovery, Commercialisation & Delivery
R&D measures this productivity not just by the number and
innovation of the products it creates, but also by the
commercial value of the product's ability to address the unmet
needs of healthcare customers including patients, healthcare
professionals, budget holders and regulators; each with their
Centres own perspective on what constitutes a valuable new product.
Genetics Pre-clinical
Research of Excellence Development New R&D is now positioned to ensure that it generates the right
Medicines safety, efficacy and quality information to respond to these
for Drug Discovery of Proven different perspectives through data demonstrating the overall
Discovery New Product Value
Research Development social benefits of the new medicine; increased length or quality
"CEDDs"
of life, and increased workplace productivity.
One of the historical contradictions in the pharmaceutical
industry has been the need to lever the advantages of a large
organisation without losing the creative spirit of the research
environment. In GlaxoSmithKline, R&D has been structured to
balance the areas that benefit from large scale with those that
take advantage of being small to enhance their productivity.
Intellectual property The key areas that benefit from being large are those that are
validated targets Drugs Products
and leads capital intensive or high throughput activities such as
compound screening; those that require scarce skills; and
R&D processes those that are highly regulated, mainly at the later end of the
In line with GlaxoSmithKline's strategic intent to become the development chain. Other areas flourish to their best
indisputable leader in the industry, R&D has set itself the goal of advantage if the structural unit remains small: the units can
becoming the industry’s most productive R&D organisation. Steps respond quickly to the changing environment; the opportunity
to achieve this have included initiatives to both reduce the time for scientists to interact is optimised; and the need for return
taken in all phases of the discovery and development chain; and on investment is focussed through the fostering of an
also to gain earlier understanding of candidate molecules, entrepreneurial, accountable culture.
increasing the probability of making a new medicine available to
treat patients as soon as possible.20 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
In R&D the power of smaller units is manifest in the Centres of Discovery research
Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDD). They ensure the most The purpose of Discovery Research (DR) is to identify lead
efficient and rapid validation of lead candidates through preclinical compounds that may form the basis of drug discovery efforts in
testing against proof of concept criteria, before handing over the the CEDDs. Investment in DR is focused on improving productivity
compound to the New Product Development organisation for large in both quality and quantity. In 2002, R&D completed construction
scale clinical trials. of new automation facilities at Tres Cantos, in Spain, and
continued work on facilities at Upper Providence and Harlow.
The New Product Development function integrates the clinical,
regulatory and commercial activities necessary to bring a new In parallel with the development of the ability to generate
medicine to the marketplace. Similarly, the New Product Supply efficiently large numbers of high quality new compounds, there
organisation bridges the traditional divide between development has been substantial progress in implementing methods to evaluate
and manufacturing, ensuring that robust manufacturing processes them using high throughput biology. This discipline, with its
are developed. integration of knowledge from both animal and human biology,
is starting to deliver highly predictive models to forecast efficacy
Significant progress has also been made in the integration of the
of compounds and to extend understanding of human disease.
Group’s R&D in Japan with the global development and
commercialisation processes in order to eliminate duplication and
Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery
to speed up regulatory filings. During 2002 the discovery and
The two crucial steps in converting lead compounds into drug
development portfolio in Japan was reviewed and prioritised in the
candidates are (i) optimising the lead for potency, efficacy, safety
context of the global R&D pipeline.
and other intrinsic characteristics of the molecule, and (ii)
Crucial to the success of R&D is its capacity to embrace and demonstrating the validity of the therapeutic hypothesis through
develop new technologies to streamline the drug discovery process. early clinical trials of the resulting candidate. The CEDDs are
The technology development organisation keeps abreast of focused on specific disease areas and designed to be nimble and
emerging technologies that may advance the creation of new entrepreneurial with the range of skills and resources required to
medicines, evaluates them and provides the investment and drive mid-stage development projects from lead optimisation
knowledge required to develop selected technologies appropriately. through to their key decision-point, demonstration of proof of
As R&D generates and modifies technologies, it will not only focus concept, before major investments are made to fund large-scale
them on the Group’s internal goals but also maximise the return on clinical trials.
R&D assets through sales, spin-outs and out-licensing.
There are six CEDDs, three based in the USA and three in Europe:
Early research and the role of genetics • Cardiovascular & Urogenital Diseases, centred in Upper
The early stages of finding new medicines requires essentially two Merion
components; targets that can be shown to affect mechanisms of • Metabolic & Viral Diseases, centred in Research Triangle Park
important pathological processes in human disease and • Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases, including
compounds, typically small molecules but also including cancer, centred in Upper Providence
macromolecules, protein therapeutics and vaccines, able to • Neurology, centred in Harlow (UK)
modulate the behaviour of specific targets. • Psychiatry, centred in Verona (Italy)
• Respiratory and Inflammation, centred in Stevenage (UK).
As part of this target validation process, GlaxoSmithKline aims to
identify the genes most relevant to common diseases with large Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the optimal drug
unmet medical needs, such as asthma, non-insulin dependent candidate for the desired biological effect and then assessing its
diabetes, osteoarthritis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, safety and other development characteristics in preclinical screens.
early onset heart disease and Alzheimer’s disease. Many diseases Once this is achieved, the CEDDs are responsible for proving that
arise through complex interactions between a number of gene the compound is safe and efficacious in patients in small-scale
variants and environmental factors, so the challenge involved is clinical trials – the proof of concept decision point.
significant. Identifying the genes that predispose patients to a
A decision is then made on whether the information available to
particular disease and understanding their role in its progression
date justifies the compound’s progression into late-stage drug
lead to finding new ways to intervene in these diseases.
development where the necessary large-scale clinical trials are
In 2002, a programme to identify tractable targets that are conducted to register and commercialise the product.
genetically associated with human diseases of interest was
In 2002, the CEDDs progressed significantly more compounds
initiated. This enables the validation of targets associated with
through both first dosing in humans and initial evaluation of
these diseases prior to extensive investigation.
efficacy in patients than in 2001. See table of compounds
The practical application of genetics has moved forward during progressed into Phase I on page 18. In order to progress highly
the year. Several opportunities have been identified where promising medicines yet more rapidly without compromising safety,
knowledge of specific markers for efficacy or susceptibility to selected projects are currently piloting a process that involves
adverse events is enhancing the ability to focus development of running some activities in parallel, rather than sequentially.
new medicines on patients who will be most likely to benefit from
them, ultimately providing reassurance to both the prescriber and
the patient.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 21
As part of GlaxoSmithKline’s major response to the challenges of These matrix teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide
diseases affecting the developing world, the Microbial, development opportunities for each product within their remit.
Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases CEDD has responsibility for They ensure that at an early stage regional marketing needs are
a drug discovery unit, based at Tres Cantos, that is dedicated to fully integrated into any development plans so that all information
finding new medicines for these diseases. Research projects at needed to support the registration, safety programmes, pricing and
Tres Cantos focus on malaria and TB and, together with work formulary negotiations is available. Careful prioritisation across all
elsewhere in the Group on HIV/AIDS and vaccines, address the phases of development ensures that a high potential and
prevention and treatment of all three of the World Health integrated portfolio is achieved.
Organization’s (WHO) top priority diseases. The Group also works
The teams collaborate at an early stage with the CEDDs to define
with numerous external partners worldwide in the search for new
target product profiles for new molecules and with integrated
treatment for Diseases of the Developing World (DDW).
technical development and manufacturing functions to ensure
rapid, effective launch and delivery of the product. Innovative
Preclinical development
clinical programmes for lead molecules from the CEDDs are
Preclinical Development (PCD)participates in a wide range of
developed using cross-functional project teams.
activities within the drug development process from optimising the
selection of compounds for potential development through launch During 2002 a new group, Translational Medicine & Technology,
to the marketplace and enhancement of existing products by was established within NPD to optimise the use of a variety of
devising more convenient formulations. Early in the development technologies to reduce risk and cost across development.
process, the metabolic fate and safety of compounds are evaluated
Cross-functional input extends to focused lifecycle management for
in laboratory animals prior to testing in humans. The testing
products to deliver new indications and new presentations after
required in both animals and humans is mandated and is highly
the initial regulatory approval and commercial launch. Examples of
regulated by governmental agencies.
lifecycle management include the extended release formulation,
PCD researchers investigate dosage form (e.g. tablet or inhaled) Augmentin XR, and development programmes designed to deliver
and develop formulations to enhance the drug’s effectiveness. PCD new indications such as the use of Seretide/Advairfor chronic
is also responsible for the development of drug formulations used obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
in clinical trials. Processes and supporting analytical methods for
A new initiative, Gold Pass, was implemented in 2002. This
drug synthesis and product formulation and delivery are scaled up
designation, agreed between R&D, regional markets and
to meet increasing supply requirements, ultimately leading to the
manufacturing, is a key component of the portfolio and resource
technical transfer of the processes and methods to manufacturing.
prioritisation and management process, to ensure that the
The New Product Supply Process, a partnership between R&D and
resources placed behind key emerging assets yield the optimum
Global Manufacturing and Supply, ensures that a robust product is
commercial benefit as well as the maximum medical benefit to
developed for large scale commercial manufacturing and launch.
patients. Gold Pass assets are of high value and strategic
PCD is pursuing novel technologies to enhance R&D productivity importance to GlaxoSmithKline and require specific organisational
by lowering the rate of project failure, reducing cycle time and visibility and urgency to meet patients’ needs. Consequently, only a
enhancing product value. Predictive toxicology, an integrated multi- small number of assets receive Gold Passstatus at any one time,
disciplinary collaboration between PCD, DR and Genetics Research, enabling the full focus of the organisation to be aligned.
has been established to improve the quality of candidate selections
and reduce late-stage attrition due to toxicity. In-licensing and research collaborations
GlaxoSmithKline has continued to identify compounds that would
Other key technology areas that provide ways to improve R&D’s
enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations to
productivity include drug delivery systems, predictive technologies,
ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for both
particle engineering and process innovation. The use of particle
large and small companies. Compounds that were the subject of
engineering and process innovations enhances the ability to
in-licensing or co-promotion deals during 2002 and in January
manufacture efficiently consistently high-quality products.
2003 were:
New product development • alvimopan (ADL 8-2698), an oral mu-opoid antagonist, in
To provide focus for the development and commercialisation Phase III for post-operative ileus, to be co-developed and
process, which must proceed in unison, all the major functional co-promoted with Adolor
components clinical, medical, biomedical data, regulatory, safety • BVT 933 and other 5HT2C receptor agonist compounds, the
and commercial strategy, have been integrated into this single most advanced of which is in Phase II for obesity, in-licensed
management organisation, New Product Development (NPD). from Biovitrum. Biovitrum retains exclusive
There are six cross-functional Therapeutic Area Strategy Teams, commercialisation rights for five Nordic countries, while
each covering one of the following groups of diseases: GlaxoSmithKline has exclusive rights elsewhere
• 842470 (AWD 12-281) and backup compounds, the most
• Cardiovascular, Urogenital and Metabolic Diseases
advanced of which is in Phase II (intra-nasal delivery) for
• Infectious Diseases including DDW
allergic rhinitis and Phase I (inhaled) for asthma and COPD,
• Neurology & Gastro-intestinal Diseases
in-licensed from elbion AG
• Oncology, Musculoskeletal Diseases and Inflammation
• a preclinical development programme of PPAR-gamma
• Psychiatry
modulators, the most advanced of which, BAY 54-9801 is in
• Respiratory.
development for osteoporosis, in-licensed from Bayer AG.
Bayer retains the right to claim certain compounds for its
own use in the fields of cardiovascular disease and oncology22 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
• novel selective inhibitors of the sodium-dependent renal Other late-stage projects terminated during 2002 were the
glucose transporter type 2 (SGLT2) compounds, in preclinical development of 237376 for cardiac arrhythmia, 660511 for
development as oral anti-diabetic agents, in-licensed hypertension in Phase II and a once-daily formulation of
excluding Japan, China, Korea and Taiwan, from Kissei Augmentin.
• an oral formulation of an analogue of parathyroid hormone,
in preclinical development for the treatment of osteoporosis, Vaccines R&D
in-licensed from Unigene Laboratories, Inc As part of the Pharmaceuticals sector worldwide, vaccines R&D is
• novel medicines containing long-acting Beta2 agonists conducted in GlaxoSmithKline’s centre in Rixensart, Belgium,
(LABA) for the treatment of respiratory diseases licenced together with other activities related to vaccines including clinical
from Theravance, Inc. Phase I clinical studies have already development, regulatory, scaling up, production, packaging and all
started support functions. Over 1,000 research scientists are employed
• a cellular chemokine receptor (CCR5) antagonist currently who are devoted to discovering new vaccines and developing more
in development for treatment of HIV infection, as well as cost-effective and convenient combination products to prevent
back-up and follow-up compounds licenced from Ono. infections which cause serious medical problems worldwide.
GlaxoSmithKline plans to initiate Phase I clinical studies in Discovery work for new vaccines is performed, then potential
the USA in the first half of 2003. candidate vaccines are expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian
cells and purified to a very high level. This is followed by
A strategic alliance was formed with Nobex Corporation for the
formulation of the vaccine which involves mixing antigens with
development and commercialisation of orally administered insulin
selected adjuvants to stimulate a good immune response in
products. The first product to be developed collaboratively is
humans. The next step is to evaluate safety and efficacy of the
843362 (NIN-058), a novel modified oral insulin, in Phase I for
candidate vaccine in in-vivo models. Once preclinical proof of
type 2 diabetes.
concept has been established, the next stage is to test the
An alliance was also formed with Exelixis, Inc for the development candidate vaccine in clinical trials in healthy individuals, to evaluate
by Exelixis of small molecule compounds. Using its gene-to-drug- safety and how effective the vaccine is in inducing an immune
discovery technology platform these will be delivered in Phase II response to protect the body from disease encountered later in a
for full development and exclusive global commercialisation and natural setting. Large-scale field trials in healthy individuals follow
manufacturing rights. Exelixis retains co-promotion rights in North to establish safety and efficacy in a cross section of the population.
America. The results obtained during clinical trials and the development of a
quality production process and facilities are then combined into a
The existing collaborative agreement with Tanabe Seiyaku Co Ltd
regulatory file which is submitted to the authorities in the various
was extended to facilitate the acceleration to candidate selection
countries where the Group intends to launch the vaccine.
by Tanabe of GlaxoSmithKline hits from screening.
In addition, GlaxoSmithKline has already entered into a number of Animals and research
agreements with third parties to co-develop and then co-market For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals
certain compounds. These arrangements range from milestone remains a vital part of the research and development of new
payments to third parties to acquire rights to their intellectual medicines and vaccines. Animals are only used where no
property, to joint ventures to develop and commercialise specified alternative is available and GlaxoSmithKline constantly aims to
compounds. Under many of these agreements the Group has reduce the numbers used. The Group strives to exceed industry
obligations to make payments in the future if specified milestones standards in the care and welfare of the animals it uses: laboratory
are achieved. These financial commitments are summarised in animals are usually bred specifically for research and are well cared
Note 26 to the Financial statements, ‘Commitments’. for throughout their lives by qualified, trained staff.
When animals are used in research unnecessary pain or suffering
Discontinuations
isscrupulously avoided. GlaxoSmithKline is actively engaged in
All research and development carries a risk of failure
research to develop and validate experimental methods that can
commensurate with the extension of scientific knowledge of a
provide more and better alternatives to the use of animals in
compound and its effects. Not all lead compounds that are
research.
identified to possess positive activity against a validated target
will prove to be safe enough to introduce to humans or feasible GlaxoSmithKline acknowledges that use of animals for research
to manufacture on a commercial scale. GlaxoSmithKline R&D purposes is a subject that rightly commands a high level of public
endeavours to ensure that as far as possible these risks are interest. The full GlaxoSmithKline Public PolicyPosition 'The care
ameliorated by extensive predictive testing as early as possible in and ethical use of animals in research' isavailable on the website,
the development process. Despite these efforts, the ultimate test www.gsk.com, or from the Secretariat.
for a product remains the point at which it is administered to
large numbers of patients with the disease. Research and development – Consumer Healthcare
In 2002, GlaxoSmithKline and Korean company LG Chem The principal centres for Consumer Healthcare R&D are in the UK
Investments (LGCI) reviewed the status of the joint development and in the USA. The focus of R&D is on the identification and
programme for the quinolone antibiotic Factive (gemifloxacin). rapid development of novel products that bring benefits to
As a result, the companies agreed that Factive’s value could be consumers in the OTC, Oral care and Nutritional healthcare
better realised within LGCI’s portfolio. LGCI has taken full markets. Consumer Healthcare liaises closely with Pharmaceuticals
worldwide responsibility for the future commercialisation of the to maximise the Group’s assets, where prescription products can
product, including regulatory activities following a transition also find application in the OTC marketplace.
period.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 23
Operating resources
Intellectual property Paxil/Seroxat. The patent protecting the commercial form of
Paxil/Seroxatis not due to expire, in most major markets, until
GlaxoSmithKline regards its intellectual property as a key business
2006. GlaxoSmithKline has initiated patent infringement litigation
asset. The effective legal protection of intellectual property is
in the USA, Europe and several other markets against a number of
critical in ensuring an effective return on investment in R&D.
generic manufacturers who are attempting to launch their own
Intellectual property can be protected by patents, trade marks,
versions of the product prior to this patent expiry.
registered designs, copyrights and domain name registrations.
Patent and trade mark rights are regarded as particularly valuable. Retrovir.There are no patents on the active ingredient zidovudine.
Patents covering pharmaceutical formulations containing
Patents zidovudine and their medical use are not due to expire until 2005
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is to obtain patent protection on all in the USA and 2006 in Europe.
significant products discovered or developed through its R&D
Seretide/Advair.The patents on the specific combination of active
activities. Patent protection for new active ingredients is available in
ingredients salmeterol and fluticasone propionate are not due to
all significant markets. Protection can also be obtained for new
expire until 2010 in the USA and 2013bin Europe. A patent
pharmaceutical formulations and manufacturing processes and for
challenge has been made to the combination patent in the UK.
new medical uses and special devices for administering products.
Serevent. Patents on the active ingredient salmeterol xinafoate are
The patent position with respect to significant products is as
not due to expire until 2005bin most of Europe (2008b in France
follows:
and 2009c in Italy) and until 2008 in the USA.
Augmentin.In the USA patents on the key active ingredient,
Valtrex. The patents on the active ingredient valaciclovir are not
potassium clavulanate, extending to 2018, were held invalid by
due to expire until 2009ain the USA and 2009bin Europe.
decisions of a federal court in 2001 and 2002. These decisions are
under appeal. In other markets, the patents on potassium Wellbutrin SR andZyban.Patents on the basic active ingredient
clavulanate have expired, except in Italy (2006c). have expired. Various formulation patents protect the currently
marketed SR(sustained release) formulations, the latest of which
Avandia and Avandamet.The basic patent on the active ingredient
is not due to expire in the USA until 2013. These patents are under
rosiglitazone in these products is not due to expire until 2011ain
legal challenge in the UScourts. In Europe, regulatory data
the USA and 2013 in Europe. Patents on the commercial form of
exclusivity provides protection until at least 2005, and until 2009
the active ingredient rosiglitazone maleate are not due to expire
in some countries.
until 2015 in the USA and 2014bin Europe.
Ziagen. The patents on the active ingredient abacavir are not due
Avodart. Patents on the active ingredient dutasteride have a
to expire until 2011ain the USA and 2014bin Europe.
normal expiry of 2013 (USA) and 2014 (Europe). Requests for
extension of term of these patents are pending and are expected Zofran. The patents on the active ingredient ondansetron are
to extend the terms of these patents to 2015a in the USA and not due to expire until 2005 in the USA and 2005bin Europe,
2017bin Europe. (2010c Italy). Patents on use in treating emesis expire in 2006.
GlaxoSmithKline has initiated legal action under these patents
Combivir.The patents on the specific combination of lamivudine
against generic manufacturers in the USA.
and zidovudine are not due to expire until 2012 in the USA and
2013bin Europe.
Trade marks
Coreg. GlaxoSmithKline is exclusive licensee under the US patent
All of GlaxoSmithKline’s pharmaceutical products are protected by
on the active ingredient carvedilol, which is not due to expire until
registered trade marks in major markets. In general, the same mark
2007a.
is used for a product in each market around the world, but there
Epivir.The patents on the active ingredient lamivudine are not due may be local variations. For example in the USA the trade mark
to expire until 2009ain the USA and 2011bin Europe. Paxilis used instead of Seroxatand Advairis used instead of
Seretide.
Flixotide/Floventand Flixonase/Flonase.In the USA, the patent on
the active ingredient fluticasone propionate expires in 2003, but Trade mark protection may generally be extended for as a long as
protection is expected to be extended by virtue of paediatric the trade mark is used by renewing it when necessary.
exclusivity until May 2004. In most European countries protection GlaxoSmithKline’s trade marks on pharmaceutical products
is not due to expire until 2005. generally assume an increasing importance when the patent for
that product has expired in a particular country and generic
Imigran/Imitrex. The patents on the active ingredient sumatriptan
versions of the product become available.
are not due to expire until 2008 in the USA and 2006bin Europe,
(2010c Italy). In the Consumer Healthcare business trade marks are particularly
important, as the business is very brand orientated and many
Lamictal. The patents on the active ingredient lamotrigine are not
products do not have patent protection.
due to expire until 2008ain the USA (2009 by virtue of paediatric
exclusivity) and 2005bin Europe. GlaxoSmithKline has initiated GlaxoSmithKline is routinely engaged in legal disputes in defence
legal action in the USA against a generic manufacturer that is of intellectual property rights on many of its products (see Note 30
attempting to launch its own version of the product prior to this to the Financial statements, ‘Legal Proceedings’).
patent expiry.
Levitrad. GlaxoSmithKline has co-promotion rights under the US
a Including extension of term
patent on the active ingredient vardenafil which is not due to b Including extension of term by supplementary protection certificates
expire until 2018 in the USA. c Including extension of term by national supplementary protection certificate, as
notified following a recent change in Italian law but subject to legal challenges
d a Registered Trademark of Bayer AG.24 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Information technology Access to information for regulatory agencies, clinical opinion
leaders, healthcare professionals, patients and the public has been
Information technology (IT) plays three strategic roles in
enhanced in a number of markets. Steps have been taken to
GlaxoSmithKline:
reduce reliance on paper based processes for clinical trials and
• supporting key business processes at the local, regional, registration of new medicines through use of wireless, handheld
functional and global levels technologies as well as the internet.
• enabling the transformation and extension of key business
activities Collaborating and assessing information
• facilitating collaboration and access to information on a The importance to GlaxoSmithKline of the internet and the internal
global basis. intranet continues to grow. Internal websites allow information to
be shared across the Group on a global basis and are supported by
In addition to computer infrastructure, hardware and software, the
search engines analogous to those used externally on the internet.
IT organisation is responsible for voice and video technologies,
The ability to provide shared access to information has enabled the
monitoring business and technology trends that could have an IT
growing use of virtual teams, which work collaboratively, spanning
impact on GlaxoSmithKline and preparing the Group for the risks
multiple geographies and time zones. GlaxoSmithKline has
associated with modern information technology.
adopted a strategy, which enables employees to choose and
Integrating business systems from the two legacy companies has receive the information they most need.
remained a top priority for IT. This has been achieved while
GlaxoSmithKline project teams and departments are using their
avoiding any significant disruption to critical business systems.
computers to collaborate effectively. A standard collaboration
The Group’s IT function has a strong focus on improving business
product suite is being deployed across the Group; included in this
processes and has adopted new, rapid and cost effective methods
is a new specialist tool that permits information to be shared with
to do this.
external colleagues, securely and quickly.
Enhancing business performance
As part of an overall internet technologies initiative, significant
Virtually all GlaxoSmithKline’s major business processes rely heavily
savings have been achieved, for example via global learning
on the use of information technology. There are major programmes
management. Information is exchanged electronically with a broad
to capture at source key information in electronic form and make it
array of suppliers, customers and partners. Protection against
available wherever required.
unauthorised access to information assets and the growing risks
Improving the quality and potential value of the molecules that posed by computer viruses is a major issue. This is being addressed
move from discovery to development is a key aim of R&D. IT has through rigorous security management processes.
developed web based tools that provide scientists with the
The telephone and video conferences that are a familiar aspect of
information they need on candidate medicines. In this way, early
business life are being complemented by computer-based
phase R&D teams can draw up shortlists of molecules for
collaborative working and screen-sharing tools that help teams
consideration as possible treatments for specific diseases faster
respond to the practical challenges posed by operating in a global
than before and with more confidence in the qualities of the
organisation. Enabling GlaxoSmithKline’s knowledge workers to be
shortlist. Other areas in R&D where IT is playing an important role
more productive is a key goal for IT. A standard desktop has been
are high-throughput biology, laboratory automation, imaging,
adopted globally, which will assist IT in supporting employees’ use
electronic data capture, document knowledge and clinical data
of software more efficiently.
management.
Work has continued to extend the Manufacturing Enterprise GlaxoSmithKline people
Resources Planning Solution to ensure that there are compliant
GlaxoSmithKline people are fundamental to the success of the
systems with common processes in place. Standard transactions
business. Their skills and intellect are key components in the
and middleware are being used to enable efficient movement
successful implementation of sound business strategy. This is the
across the supply chain whilst at the same time allowing for
human capital that maximises the potential of the Group’s
independent optimisation of commercial units at a regional or
scientific, commercial and financial assets. The outcome of effective
functional level as well as manufacturing.
human resources policy is GlaxoSmithKline’ssolid reputation as an
The ability to consolidate critical operations reflects the growing international employer of choice.
availability and reliability of global data networks. Employees, such
To achieve this, the Group initiated Candidate Care – the
as US sales representatives, are benefiting from the ability to
commitment to seeking and acquiring the best employment
connect to systems via a virtual private network when away from
candidates who reflect a diversity of background, experience
the office.
and perspective and who can contribute most to the success of
GlaxoSmithKline.
Transforming and extending business activities
Insights gained from genomics and proteomics are transforming
Performance and reward
the way that disease targets are identified and validated.
The importance of people must translate into employment
Information obtained from a variety of external sources needs to
practices that demonstrate the value of each individual.
be integrated with internally generated information in a rapid and
Compensation and benefit packages (GlaxoSmithKline’s Total
flexible manner that relies heavily on information technology
Reward) aim to be competitive and innovative and are either global
support. The analysis of these databases also requires significant
or local in orientation, depending on what best drives business
amounts of processing power, taking full advantage of advances in
performance and rewards individual contribution.
computer technology. New technological approaches, such as grid
computing, whereby computers are linked to use their processing
power more fully, are being investigated.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 25
Compensation philosophy and programme development Comprehensive leadership development opportunities are available
underscore GlaxoSmithKline’s commitment to a performance to managers at all levels. These opportunities are targeted to help
culture. Performance based pay, both base and variable, share leaders to meet the challenges they face in a global organisation.
awards, share options, performance and development planning They ensure leadership motivates and enables teams and
and evaluation contribute to retention of key talent, superior individuals to do their best work. Development opportunities are
performance and accomplishment of business targets. innovative, based on peer interaction and idea exchange, and
contribute to strategy deployment.
A commitment to flexible working through flexi-time,
teleconferencing, remote working and flexible work schedules,
Human Resources services and information systems
recognises that employees work best in an environment that helps
GlaxoSmithKline’s human resource delivery strategy is designed to
them integrate their work and personal lives.
make the most of technology. Human Resources services and
information are delivered through low cost, highly effective
Communication and involvement
channels that make it easy for job candidates, employees, and
An extensive programme of open, two-way communications
retirees to access information about employment, compensation
stimulates employee engagement in GlaxoSmithKline’s strategy and
and benefits, policies and programmes. These include intuitive
day-to-day operations. This includes the publication of regular
personalised web-based tools, available to employees in many
summary reports from Corporate Executive Team meetings, a
locations.
Chief Executive Officer’s home page featuring presentations and a
Q&A area, a Group-wide magazine, town hall meetings and video
Property, plant and equipment
conferences. In 2002, there was a satellite broadcast involving
60 sites in 31 countries, and watched by an employee audience of GlaxoSmithKline has operating establishments in some 102
around 30,000. Live video streaming and video on demand options countries. The geographical spread of the Group‘s activities is
are being developed as additional means of ensuring employees indicated in Note 38 to the Financial statements, ‘Principal Group
have access to the most senior levels of management, and as companies’. GlaxoSmithKline conducts research and development
powerful tools for building culture and driving alignment across at more than 20 sites and manufactures product at more than
common goals. 95 sites in 38 countries. Refer to ‘Research and development –
Pharmaceuticals’ (page 14) and ‘Manufacture and supply’
Share ownership schemes encourage participation as owners of the
(page 13).
business, increasing awareness of short and long term business
objectives. Global and local employee opinion surveys allow GlaxoSmithKline has invested over £4 billion in its property, with
employees the opportunity to express their views and perspectives acarrying value in the Financial statements of almost £3 billion,
on important Group issues. with a further £3.6 billion, at carrying value, invested in plant and
equipment and assets in construction. In2002, GlaxoSmithKline
Diversity invested £1 billion in new andrenewal property, plant and
The GlaxoSmithKline Diversity Strategy focuses on creating an equipment. This is mainly related to a large number of projects for
inclusive work environment. The approach aims to enhance the improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide
employee innovation and productivity by valuing and drawing on sites. Property is mainly heldfreehold. New investment is financed
the differing knowledge, perspectives, experiences and styles from Group liquid resources. At 31st December 2002, the Group
resident in the global community. The Corporate Executive Team had capital contractual commitments for future expenditure of
leads the Diversity Initiative with its key objective: to create and some £382 million and in 2003 operating lease commitments of
implement diversity strategies that measurably improve employee £168 million.
attraction, development and retention. Tailored initiatives are in
GlaxoSmithKline’s business is science-based, technology-intensive
progress to embed inclusive behaviours into GlaxoSmithKline’s
and highly regulated by governmental authorities. It allocates
culture and practices.
significant financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to employment policies free from its property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption
discrimination against potential or existing staff on the grounds of of production and to achieve compliance with regulatory
age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, standards. The research and development and manufacture of
faith or disability. active pharmaceutical ingredients require the use ofchemicals and
hazardous materials. GlaxoSmithKline observes stringent
In particular GlaxoSmithKline is committed to offering people with
procedures and uses specialist skills to manage environmental risks
disabilities access to the full range of recruitment and career
from these activities. Environmental issues, sometimes dating from
opportunities. Every effort is made to retain and support staff who
operations now modified or discontinued, are referenced under
become disabled while working for the Group.
‘Responsibility for Environment, Health and Safety’ (page 26) and
in Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Talent management and leadership development
GlaxoSmithKline believes that its facilities are adequate for its
Development planning is a key element in performance planning
current needs. The integration of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
for all employees each year. Reviews are conducted in each
Beecham operations has involved a series of announcements of
business and function to ensure that a diverse talent pool is fully
rationalisation and potential disposal of a number of sites and
developed to meet future business needs, and that successors are
properties. It is considered that there will be further changes.
identified for key positions.26 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
The business and the community
Corporate and social responsibility Objectives and targets
Objectives for 2002 focused on progressing toward full
This year GlaxoSmithKline has again produced a separate report on
implementation of EHS management systems. These systems are
social and environmental issues. This covers the issues that are of
meant to ensure on-going compliance with legislation and
primary concern to stakeholders. These include medicines for the
regulations as well as internal standards. Sites analysed how well
developing world, community investment, R&D, the environment
their programmes met the requirements of the EHS Standards and
and health and safety. While metrics for environmental
then developed plans to achieve any requirements that are not
performance have been reported for many years, during 2002 the
currently met in full. Assistance from the corporate EHSgroup is
Group developed indicators for other issues that will enable it to
provided in the form of information materials, an intranet system
show progress in addressing these. The report is available from the
to support EHS programmes and an awards programme to
Secretariat and on the website at www.gsk.com.
encourage innovative solutions.
Responsibility for Environment, Health and Safety Targets for EHS improvements were set in 2001 that are to be
accomplished over five years. The health and safety target is a
Environment Health and Safety (EHS)is a key issue for the Group
reduction in lost time injury and illness rate by 15 per cent per year.
and has a high priority. Responsibility for EHS is at the highest
Environmental targets include reductions in energy usage and
level. There is a corporate group reporting to the General Counsel
associated greenhouse gas emissions, reductions in waste and
that has overall responsibility for providing governance and services
wastewater disposed and increase in waste recycled.
on EHS issues. Within the operations, line managers are
responsible for EHS and are supported by EHS and medical
Performance improvement measures
professionals.
GlaxoSmithKline measures its impact on the health and safety of
people who work at our sites and its impact on the environment.
Environment, Health and Safety management
The measure of impact on people is the lost time injury and illness
GlaxoSmithKline takes a systematic approach to managing EHS
rate. This is the number of injuries and illnesses serious enough to
risks and impacts. A framework of information and programmes
result in lost time per 100,000 hours worked. The impacts on air,
based on a set of universal EHSStandards guides management of
water and land are measured as metric tonnes of material emitted,
these issues throughout the organisation.
waste disposed and the impact on natural resources is measured as
cubic metres of water used and gigajoules of energy consumed.
Environment, Health and Safety audits
As part of its governance responsibility, GlaxoSmithKline conducts GlaxoSmithKline selects its measures of performance improvement
EHS audits of its sites, contract manufacturers and key suppliers. based on the risk. Risks are determined, in part, through evaluation
The audit protocols developed and introduced during 2002 were of impacts. The impacts considered were those with the potential
derived from the EHS Standards. A new scoring system was tested for adverse impact on people or the environment, business
during the year and will be fully implemented in 2003. continuity or business reputation. Most of the measures selected
are similar to those reported by other companies and are
A pilot process has begun, with Global Manufacturing and Supply,
recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative, a long-term,
to investigate obtaining Group wide certification to the
multi-stakeholder, international undertaking to develop and
international standards on EHS. This involves review by a third
disseminate globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
party registrar of GlaxoSmithKline’s EHS Standards and auditing
procedures and completion of a number of certification audits of
Product stewardship
Group sites. The aim is for the registrar to gain confidence in the
GlaxoSmithKline has a global standard for product stewardship
corporate auditing process as well as in the performance of
that establishes requirements for responsible and ethical
representative sites against the international standards to proceed
management of EHS aspects of products throughout their
with a full certification based on a sample of sites. The remaining
life-cycles. Product stewardship provides a systematic way to
sites will be subject to audits by the third party registrar as part of
identify product or process risks early, so that they may be
obtaining certification.
mitigated and managed. Integrating product stewardship into
In 2002, 21 sites were audited and seven follow-up reviews were business activities protects people and the environment, enhances
performed. As part of the continuous improvement process, compliance with local regulatory requirements and avoids
progress was monitored on actions arising from issues raised on interruption of product supply.
audits. A web based tool to assist this process was developed and
will be launched in 2003. Environmental sustainability
The concept of sustainable development is central to the Group’s
As part of the commitment to corporate social responsibility and
environmental programmes. Work has started towards eventual
the pro-active management of the GlaxoSmithKline manufacturing
environmental sustainability by mitigating environmental impacts
and supply base, 16 of the key contract manufacturers and
and looking at ways to improve production efficiency. The use of
suppliers were also assessed. This process evaluated the
renewable raw materials and the overall balance of the
management of EHS risks and impacts based on the Group’s EHS
consumption of resources with the generation of waste will be
requirements for contract manufacturers. Good performance was
investigated in the future. The Group has a standard on sustainable
identified and recommendations were made where improvements
development that defines the approach from discovery through
were needed.
manufacturing to sales. Environmental sustainability starts with
R&D. As part of the support for R&D, a toolkit has been developed
to assist in the selection of “green” chemistries and processes.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 27
Access to healthcare in the developing world In 2002, evidence was uncovered that some of the company’s
ARVs that had been sold to Africa at not-for-profit prices were
Access to healthcare in developing countries presents a unique
being illegally re-imported into the European Union for sale at a
challenge to the global community. The problem, which is rooted
higher price. The victims of this trade are HIV/AIDS patients in
in poverty, demands a significant mobilisation of resources, an
Africa and the only beneficiaries are the illegal importers. This
unprecedented sense of urgency and a new spirit of partnership.
diversion threatens GlaxoSmithKline’s ability to provide preferential
It must be tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global
prices to the developing world. The offer of not-for-profit prices
society. The Group does not have the mandate, expertise or
requires a sustainable framework, combining the Group’s
resources to address the underlying problems that exist. However,
commitment to preferential pricing with commitments from others
GlaxoSmithKline is playing a vital role. There are three key areas in
to put in place ways to prevent product diversion and to avoid
which it makes innovative, responsible and, above all, sustainable
price referencing against preferentially priced medicines.
contributions to improving healthcare in the developing world:
GlaxoSmithKline has taken steps to address the problem and from
a regulatory perspective, it is now able to supply 31 countries with
• investing in R&D that targets diseases which particularly affect
Combivirin a special, tri-lingual ‘access’ pack to provide a barrier to
the developing world
diversion. However, this alone will not fully deter illegal traders
• preferential pricing of its antiretrovirals (ARVs), anti-malarials
who are experts in the repackaging of medicines. Stricter
and vaccines
regulations and enforcement to counter this illegal trade will be
• and community investment activities and partnerships that
required.
foster effective health care.
Success through partnership
R&D for diseases of the developing world
During 2002, GlaxoSmithKline continued to engage with
Continued investment in R&D into new drugs and vaccines for
stakeholders working on improving access to healthcare in the
diseases that affect the developing world is essential to long-term
developing world. The Group has a long history of supporting
improvement in the health of people in these regions, not least
community investment programmes and has a wide range of
because of challenges such as the development of resistance to
partnerships to support delivery of better health and education to
current treatments and poor patient adherence to complex
under-served communities around the world. The Group also
treatment regimens.
consulted and worked with governments of both the developed
The Group believes GlaxoSmithKline has the industry’s most and developing world, the United Nations, the WHO, NGOs and
extensive portfolio of products and R&D projects for diseases of the with the investment community and will continue constructive
developing world, and that it is the only Group undertaking R&D dialogue with organisations that share its aim of trying to improve
into the prevention and treatment of all three of the World Health access to healthcare in the developing world.
Organisation’s (WHO) priority diseases in the developing world -
GlaxoSmithKline is making a vital contribution to improving
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. The Group currently has over
healthcare in the developing world. The Group will continue with
20 R&D projects and programmes of relevance to the developing
its efforts, improving its initiatives by applying lessons learned and
world, ten of which are aimed at producing vaccines and
looking for opportunities to do more. For example, in September
medicines for diseases that disproportionally affect developing
2002 the Group further reduced its preferential prices for ARVs
countries. GlaxoSmithKline is increasingly involved in public-private
by up to 33 per cent. It looks to other stakeholders also to go
partnerships to enable a wider range of projects to be undertaken.
further and play their part through embracing partnership,
In addition to the R&D on HIV/AIDS, an R&D group dedicated to showing political will and, above all, committing significant new
Diseases of the Developing World has been created to ensure a funding. This is critical if an improvement in healthcare and quality
focus on these diseases. Projects are prioritised primarily on their of life across the developing world is to be achieved.
socio-economic and public health benefits rather than on their
commercial returns. Global community partnerships
Preferential pricing arrangements GlaxoSmithKline’s community investment in 2002 totalled
GlaxoSmithKline has offered its vaccines to public health £239million of which £112 million was related to the Group’s
programmes at significant discounts for over 20 years. The Group patient assistance programmes in the USA. This was equivalent to
sets a single, sustainable, preferential price for each of its ARVs 4.3 per cent of Group profit before tax. Many of the programmes
and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the Least are long-term commitments that help bring about sustainable
Developed Countries and sub-Saharan Africa - a total of 63 change. The Group’s community investment activities are focused
countries. GlaxoSmithKline is committed to contributing to health on health and education and include:
improvements in a sustainable manner. Preferential prices for its
ARVs and anti-malarials are therefore set at levels on which no Patient assistance programmes
profit is made, but that cover direct costs, so that supply can be The patient assistance programmes provide access to
sustained for as long as required. There has been notable progress GlaxoSmithKline’s medicines for the most needy USpatients who
in expanding access through preferential pricing. The Group has do not have prescription drug insurance. In 2002, over 410,000
some 120 arrangements, covering 50 of the world’s poorest patients received medicines through the Group’s patient assistance
countries, to supply ARVs at preferential prices. Customers include programmes, at a value of $168 million.
governments, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), hospitals,
academic institutions and private employers.28 GlaxoSmithKline Description of business
Public health programmes GlaxoSmithKline gave an unrestricted gift of £5 million to Imperial
College London. The gift will be used to support biomedical
The Global Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis research in an effort to identify and develop new treatments for
GlaxoSmithKline is an active and involved member of the Global disease.
Alliance to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (LF); a unique partnership
The Group announced renewed support for science education by
which includes the WHO, the ministries of health in endemic
investing £1 million over four years in INSPIRE (INnovative Scheme
countries, non-governmental organisations, community based
for Post-docs in Research and Education), in partnership with the
organisations, academic institutions, international organisations
Department for Education and Skills, Imperial College London, and
and the private sector - all committed to eliminating one of the
the Specialist Schools Trust.
world’s most disabling diseases.
Other 2002 education programmes included £100,000 for Science
GlaxoSmithKline has committed as much of its anti-parasitic drug
Across The World, an international educational programme
albendazole as is required to eliminate LF over the anticipated
encouraging communication and shared learning across different
20 year life of the programme. In 2002, the fourth year of the
cultures, and sponsorship of The Royal Institution Christmas
programme, 66 million tablets, worth £8.7 million at wholesale
Lectures, which provide an opportunity for young people to learn
acquisition cost were donated to 31 countries. These numbers will
from eminent scientists.
expand as the programme extends to the one billion people at risk
in 80 countries. In addition the Group gave grants to support the The International Impact Awards (UK) recognise excellence in the
Global Alliance to Eliminate LF totalling £750,000. work of voluntary community healthcare organisations across the
UK. This years’ ten winners each received an unrestricted award of
Positive Action on HIV/AIDS £25,000. £100,000 was donated to the Royal National Institute for
In 2002 Positive Action - the Group’s international programme of the Blind, in support of their new Low Vision Unit in London. The
HIV education, care and community support – marked its tenth Group is also supporting the Shaw Trust’s Pain Management
anniversary. Through the programme GlaxoSmithKline works in project in Wales with a donation of over £36,000.
partnership with networks of people living with HIV/AIDS,
The Group sponsored the exhibition ‘Art in the Making -
community groups, international agencies, NGOs and governments
Underdrawings in Renaissance Paintings’ at the National Gallery,
to intensify community responses to HIV/AIDS.
London. It is supporting Earthwatch Institute’s environmental
During 2002 Positive Action supported 25 international awards for primary school teachers for three years with a donation
programmes in 32 countries. Programmes included a grant of of £150,000.
$250,000 over three years to the International Center for Research
on Women, to investigate the underlying factors that cause Europe
HIV/AIDS-related stigma and discrimination and to develop Programmes in Europe in 2002 focused on children’s health with
interventions to minimise the barriers limiting access to healthcare. total funding of £1.1 million supporting a range of long-term
The project is being conducted in Ethiopia, Tanzania and Zambia. programmes, including £335,000 for Zippy’s Friends; a programme
run by Partnership for Children to teach coping skills to children in
Following consultation with the conference community committee,
Denmark and Lithuania.
Positive Action contributed over £90,000 to support attendance
and participation of community representatives from under- Barretstown Gang in Ireland and L’Envol in France, both of which
resourced regions at the 14th International AIDS Conference, held provide therapeutic recreation for seriously ill children from across
in Barcelona in July 2002. Europe, received £350,000 and £100,000, respectively.
Working with the charity HealthProm and the Azerbaijan Health
African Malaria Partnership
Ministry, GlaxoSmithKline invested £92,000 in 2002 as part of a
In April 2002 GlaxoSmithKline launched the African Malaria
four year programme to benefit nearly 250,000 refugees in
Partnership to fund three behavioural development programmes
Azerbaijan with a new safe childbirth initiative.
in Africa to help combat a disease that kills more than a million
people every year.
North America
In November 2002, it was announced that three programmes had Programmes in North America focused on improving access to
been selected to share grants totalling £1 million over three years. better healthcare. Funding of $13.1 million was allocated through
The programmes will benefit nearly two million people in seven the North America Community Partnerships team. A further
countries. $93.7 million was donated to regional community activities.
The SHARE Awards foster healthy ageing across cultures by
Regional community initiatives
recognising community-based programmes that meet the needs of
United Kingdom older people from racially, ethnically and culturally diverse
GlaxoSmithKline made corporate contributions of £4.1 million to backgrounds. Over the past four years, GlaxoSmithKline’s grants of
UK charities. More than 350 projects in science education and $6.5 million have supported SHAREawards for 51 organisations,
medical research, healthcare, the arts and the environment were enabling them to improve healthcare access and delivery.
funded. In addition GlaxoSmithKline companies in the UK provided
The International Impact Awards (USA) acknowledge and reward
a further £8.5 million for community investment purposes, giving a
excellence in the non-profit healthcare community, in the Greater
combined total of £12.6 million in support of projects in the UK.
Philadelphia area. Ten winners each received $40,000 as an
Almost £500,000 in total was provided for medical research to The unrestricted award.
Foundation for the Study of Infant Deaths, Multiple Sclerosis
Society, Action Research, Primary Immunodeficiency Association
and The Stroke Association.Description of businessGlaxoSmithKline 29
GlaxoSmithKline gave unrestricted gifts of $10 million to the Product donations
University of Pennsylvania and $5 million to Duke University. The GlaxoSmithKline donates essential products for humanitarian relief
gifts will be used to support their discovery research efforts to efforts. Donations are made at the request of governments and
identify and develop new treatments for disease. major charitable organisations and are generally manufactured
specifically to meet these requests. NGOs complete a needs
Science in the Summer is a library-based science education
assessment and then order the product needed in their
programme in the Philadelphia area offering hands-on courses
international communities. This ensures that the right product
taught by certified teachers. A GlaxoSmithKline grant of $400,000
reaches the right person at the right time.
to the American Association for the Advancement of Science
supports this programme. In 2002, the total value of the Group’s international product
donations, excluding the lymphatic filariasis programme, was
In North Carolina, Duke University Medical Center received a
$23.4 million, at wholesale acquisition cost. This is
$250,000 grant over two years to expand their adult diabetes
GlaxoSmithKline’s wholesale list price, not including discounts and
education programme’s outreach to minority and underserved
is a standard industry method of valuing product donations.
populations.
With a $250,000 contribution over five years, the Rescue Missions Employee involvement
Ministry will set up a GlaxoSmithKline educational scholarship GlaxoSmithKline employees are encouraged to contribute to their
endowment for formerly homeless people. local communities through employee volunteering schemes.
Support for this varies around the world but includes employee
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill received $250,000
time, donations to charities where employees have completed
as part of an overall $1.25 million grant for a travelling science and
voluntary work and a matching gifts programme. In 2002, in the
technology bus to help improve science teaching and to encourage
USA, the Group matched more than 9,000 employee gifts, at a
and advance the science careers of underserved and ethnic
value of $3.1 million.
minority students.
GlaxoSmithKline also matched contributions by employees to the
International United Way campaigns at a value of $1.6 million. This was further
GlaxoSmithKline’s International Community Partnerships supplemented by GlaxoSmithKline’s three year grant of $555,000
programmes addressed health education and mobilisation, to the United Way of Southeastern Pennsylvania which provides
providing partnership funding of £1.1 million in 2002. Programmes specific capacity building grants and creates more effective
included: healthcare delivery at the United Way’s 91 member agencies.
£320,000 to support its PHASE initiative (Personal Hygiene GlaxoSmithKline’s Investment in Volunteer Excellence (GIVE)
And Sanitation Education) in Kenya, Uganda, Nicaragua and provided $500 grants to qualifying USnon-profit organisations
Peru. PHASE targets school children and aims to reduce based on employee or partner volunteer time. The GIVE grants
diarrhoea-related disease and death. totalled $145,000 and reflect over 34,000 employee volunteer
hours.
£100,000 as part of a three-year commitment to fund an
HIV/AIDS clinic in the Masoyi tribal area of Mpumalanga,
Foundations
South Africa.
The Group does not operate a single charitable foundation for its
The Group extended its Rural Nursing Excellence programme in corporate programmes but has a numberof country-based
Thailand, which sponsors female high school graduates from rural foundations including:
areas to complete four-year nursing degrees. GlaxoSmithKline has
The GlaxoSmithKline France Foundation supports programmes to
donated another £100,000 to train a further 50 nurses.
improve HIV/AIDS prevention education, training and care,
In Ethiopia GlaxoSmithKline provided £100,000 for the Integrated primarily in Africa. As a result, over 200,000 people are expected
Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) in partnership with the to access care and support services by the end of 2005.
WHO and UNICEF. The goal is to contribute to the global reduction
The North Carolina GlaxoSmithKline Foundation is an endowed,
of mortality and morbidity in children under the age of five from
self-funding organisation which operates as a separate entity. The
pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria, measles and malnutrition.
foundation publishes its own annual report, which is available on
In China, £100,000 of GlaxoSmithKline funding is supporting the request, and uses its asset base to support math, science and
development of a community-based HIV/AIDS programme in health education in North Carolina. In 2002, this foundation made
collaboration with the Red Cross Movement in China, British Red donations totalling $2.2 million. This figure is not included in the
Cross and Australian Red Cross. Group’s total community investment figure.30 GlaxoSmithKlineGlaxoSmithKline 31
Corporate governance
This section discusses GlaxoSmithKline’s management
structures and governance procedures.
32 The Board
33 Corporate Executive Team
34 Governance and policy
34 Dialogue with shareholders
35 Annual General Meeting
35 Accountability, audit and internal control framework
37 The Combined Code32 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
deh
The Board Donald McHenry (Aged 66)
Non-Executive Director. Mr McHenry was formerly a Non-
The Directors listed below were appointed on 23rd May 2000 and
Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is a
have served since that date.
Distinguished Professor in the Practice of Diplomacy at the School
bdfh of Foreign Service at Georgetown University and President of the
Sir Christopher Hogg (Aged 66)
IRC Group, LLC. His other Non-Executive directorships include
Non-Executive Chairman. Sir Christopher was formerly a
The Coca-Cola Company, FleetBoston Financial Corporation,
Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is Non-
International Paper Company and AT&T Corporation. He
Executive Chairman of Reuters Group PLC and amember of the
previously served as Ambassador and US Permanent
Supervisory Board of Air Liquide S.A. and Chairman of The Royal
Representative to the United Nations.
National Theatre.
bdg
dhj Sir Ian Prosser (Aged 59)
Sir Roger Hurn (Aged 64)
Non-Executive Director. Sir Ian was formerly a Non-Executive
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman. Sir Roger was appointed a
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is Executive Chairman of
Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc in 1996 and Deputy
Six Continents PLC and the World Travel &Tourism Council and
Chairman in 1997. He is a Non-Executive Director of Cazenove
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc. He is a member of
Group plc. He is also Chairman of the Court of Governors of
the CBI President’s Committee.
Henley College.
ad
d Dr Ronaldo Schmitz (Aged 64)
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier (Aged 55)
Non-Executive Director. Dr Schmitz was formerly a Non-Executive
Chief Executive Officer. Dr Garnier was appointed an Executive
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a Non-Executive Director of
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and became Chief
Legal & General Group plc and a member of the Board of Directors
Executive Officer in April 2000. He is a Non-Executive Director of
of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot Corporation.
United Technologies Corporation and a member of the Board of
df
Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships. He holds a PhD Dr Lucy Shapiro (Aged 62)
in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in France Non-Executive Director. Dr Shapiro was formerly a Non-Executive
and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA. Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. She is Ludwig Professor
d of Cancer Research in the Department of Developmental Biology
John Coombe (Aged 57)
and Director of the Beckman Center for Molecular and Genetic
Chief Financial Officer. Mr Coombe was formerly an Executive
Medicine at the Stanford University School of Medicine. She
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he was responsible for
holds a PhD in molecular biology from Albert Einstein College
Finance and Investor Relations. He is a member of the Supervisory
of Medicine.
Board of Siemens AG, the UK Accounting Standards Board and
the Code Committee of the UK Takeover Panel.
Membership of Board committees is indicated by the following
di
Paul Allaire (Aged 64) symbols:
Non-Executive Director. Mr Allaire was formerly a Non-Executive
Chairman Member
Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He is a Non-Executive Director
Audit a b
of Lucent Technologies Inc. and priceline.com Inc. He is Chairman
Corporate Administration – d
of The Ford Foundation.
&Transactions
Dr Michèle Barzachdfj (Aged 59) Corporate Social Responsibility e f
Non-Executive Director. Dr Barzach was formerly a Non-Executive Financial Results – d
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. She is a member of the Nominations g h
International Cooperation High Council, Chairman of the Board of Remuneration i j
Equilibres et Populations and Director of the Board of Project Hope.
International consultant in health strategy, she was formerly French Details of the terms of reference of the Board Committees may be
Minister of Health and Family. found on page 34.
bdj
Sir Peter Job (Aged 61)
Other Directors
Non-Executive Director. Sir Peter was formerly a Non-Executive
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a Non-Executive Director of Sir Richard Sykes, Non-Executive Chairman, Sir Peter Walters,
Schroders plc, Shell Transport and Trading Company plc, TIBCO Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Mr John Young, Non-Executive
Software Inc, Instinet Group Inc. and Multex.com Inc. He is also a Director, all retired from the Board on 20th May 2002.
member of the Supervisory Boards of Deutsche Bank AGand
Bertelsmann AG.
dhj
John McArthur (Aged 68)
Non-Executive Director. Mr McArthur was formerly a Non-Executive
Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is a Non-Executive Director of
BCE Inc., BCEEmergis Inc., Cabot Corporation, HCACorporation,
Koc Holdings A.S., Rohm and Haas Company, Telsat Canada and
The AES Corporation. He is also Senior Advisor to the President of
the World Bank.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 33
Corporate Executive Team (CET) David Stout
President
JP Garnier Pharmaceutical Operations
Chief Executive Officer Mr Stout was President of USPharmaceuticals until he was
As Chief Executive Officer, Dr Garnier is the link between the Board appointed to his current position in January 2003. He is responsible
and staff, and oversees all operational aspects including establishing for the global pharmaceuticals business as well as the global
policies, objectives and initiatives, and directing long-term strategy. vaccines business. He joined SmithKline Beecham in 1996 as head
Dr Garnier was formerly Chief Executive Officer of SmithKline of its US Sales and Marketing function, and in 1998 became
Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990. President, Pharmaceuticals, North America.
Rupert Bondy Chris Viehbacher
Senior Vice President and General Counsel President
Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, USPharmaceuticals
together with environmental, health and safety issues, insurance Responsible for European pharmaceuticals operations until the
and security. He was a lawyer in private practice before joining end of 2002, Mr Viehbacher took over the US pharmaceuticals
SmithKline Beecham in 1995 as Senior Counsel. operations in January 2003. He joined Wellcome in 1988 and
became Director, Continental Europe, at Glaxo Wellcome in 1999.
Ford Calhoun
Chief Information Officer Andrew Witty
Dr Calhoun is responsible for information technology, a global President
function that enables key business processes across all parts of the Pharmaceuticals Europe
Group. With doctoral and post-doctoral training in microbiology, Mr Witty is responsible for the Group’s pharmaceuticals
genetics, biomathematics and computer science, Dr Calhoun operations in Europe, a post he took up in January 2003 when
joined Smith Kline & French in 1984. he was appointed to the CET. Mr Witty joined Glaxo in 1985 and
at GlaxoSmithKline was Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific, until
John Coombe his current post.
Chief Financial Officer
As head of the finance function, Mr Coombe is responsible for Tachi Yamada
activities such as financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, Chairman
investor relations, finance systems, internal audit and real estate. Research & Development
He joined Glaxo in 1986 as Group Financial Controller and was Dr Yamada leads the Group’s complex business of drug discovery
appointed Group Finance Director in 1992. and development - creating new medicines through research. He
joined SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a Non-Executive member
Dan Phelan of the Board and became Chairman, R&D, Pharmaceuticals
Senior Vice President in 1999.
Human Resources
Mr Phelan is responsible for benefits, compensation, recruitment, Jennie Younger
organisation development, leadership development and succession Senior Vice President
planning, human resource information systems and employee Corporate Communications & Community Partnerships
health management. He joined Smith Kline &French in 1981 Mrs Younger is responsible for the Group’s internal and external
and in 1994 was appointed Senior Vice President and Director, communications, its image and partnerships with communities
Human Resources, SmithKline Beecham. of the world. She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director of
Investor Relations.
Howard Pien
President Jack Ziegler
Pharmaceuticals International President
Mr Pien leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA and Consumer Healthcare
most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries that account Mr Ziegler is head of the global Consumer Healthcare business,
for over 82 per cent of the world’s population. He joined which produces oral healthcare, over-the-counter medicines and
SmithKline Beecham in 1991 and in 1998 was appointed nutritional healthcare products. He joined SmithKline Beecham in
President, Pharmaceuticals. 1991 and in 1998 was appointed President of the Consumer
Healthcare business.
David Pulman
President Other members
Global Manufacturing &Supply Dr Palmer and Mr Tyson left the Group on 1st December 2002
Appointed to the post in December 2002, Dr Pulman is to pursue other roles in the pharmaceutical industry. Mr Ingram
responsible for the global manufacturing and supply chain retired on 31st December 2002, but will continue to work
network. He joined Glaxo in 1978 and prior to his most recent part-time as Vice Chairman of Pharmaceuticals, acting as a
posting was responsible for the North American supply network, special advisor to the Group and will attend CET meetings in
manufacturing strategy and logistics. that capacity.34 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
Governance and policy Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and
The Board and Executive
remuneration of the Executive Directors and Corporate Executives
The Directors are listed under ‘The Board’ (page 32).
and with the assistance of external independent advisors it
The Board of GlaxoSmithKline plc is responsible for the Group’s evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on the
system of corporate governance and is ultimately accountable for remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
the Group's activities, strategy and financial performance.
The Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors. It
The Board comprises Executive and Non-Executive Directors. The
meets four times a year and otherwise as necessary. The Chairman
role of Non-Executive Directors is to bring independent judgement
and CEO attend the meetings except when their own remuneration
to Board deliberations and decisions. The Board considers each of
is being considered. The Senior Vice President, Human Resources
the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
also attends each meeting.
Sir Christopher Hogg was appointed Non-Executive Chairman
following the retirement of Sir Richard Sykes on 20th May 2002, Nominations Committee
and Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier is Chief Executive Officer. Sir Roger Hurn The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and
is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director. composition of the Board and the appointment of Corporate
Executives and new Board members and makes recommendations
Board process to the Board as appropriate. The Committee will also review the
The Board meets at least sixtimes a year. It has a formal schedule management’s succession plan to ensure its adequacy. The
of matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise delegates Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors and meets
specific responsibilities to Board committees, as described below. at least once a year to consider succession planning and otherwise
The Board works to an agreed agenda in reviewing the key as necessary.
activities of the business, and receives papers and presentations to
enable it to do so effectively. The Board considers and reviews the Corporate Administration &Transactions Committee
work undertaken by its Committees. The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews
and approves matters in connection with the administration of the
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or
Group’s business, and of certain corporate transactions. The
more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent
Committee consists of the Directors, Corporate Executive Team
legal and/or financial advice. There is an agreed procedure to
members and the Company Secretary. The Committee meets as
enable them to do so.
necessary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available
to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures. The Company Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Secretary is Simon Bicknell who was appointed in May 2000. He is The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee consists entirely of
a barrister and joined the Group in 1984. He is secretary to all the Non-Executive Directors and provides a Board level forum for the
Board Committees. regular review of external issues that have the potential for serious
impact upon the Group’s business and reputation. The Committee
Board committees is also responsible for annual governance oversight of the Group’s
The Board has established the following Committees each of which worldwide donations and community support. The Committee
has its own written terms of reference: meets formally twice a year and has further meetings and
consultations as required.
Audit Committee
The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting Corporate Executive Team
process, the system of internal control and management of risks The executive management of the Group is the responsibility of
and the external and internal audit process. The Committee also the CEO and other senior managers, who form the Corporate
proposes to the shareholders the appointment of the external Executive Team (CET)which meets 11 times per year. The
auditors and is directly responsible for their remuneration and members and their responsibilities are listed under 'Corporate
oversight of their work. The Committee consists entirely of Executive Team'(page 33).
Non-Executive Directors. It meets at least four times a year with
the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Remuneration of Directors
the General Counsel, the heads of global internal audit and Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in the
corporate compliance, and representatives of the external auditors Remuneration report on pages 39 to 50.
in attendance.
Dialogue with shareholders
Financial Results Committee
Financial results are announced quarterly.
The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf
of the Board, the Annual Report on Form 20-F and Annual Review The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when
and the convening of the Annual General Meeting together with its half-year and full-year results are announced. The CEO and CFO
the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results. Each give presentations on the final year end results to institutional
Director is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a investors, analysts and the media in London and in New York. In
meeting is any three members. To be quorate, each meeting must addition, there are teleconferences after the release of the first,
include the Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee second and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts
and the CEO or the CFO. It meets as necessary. and the media. These presentations may also be accessed via the
www.gsk.com website.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 35
The Annual General Meeting takes place in London and formal Remuneration report
notification is sent to shareholders at least one month in advance. The Remuneration report on pages 39 to 50sets out the
At the Meeting a business presentation is made to shareholders remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures
and all Directors able to attend are available, formally during the on Directors’ remuneration including those required by the
Meeting, and informally afterwards, for questions. Details of the Companies Act 1985, Schedule 7A, of the Directors’ Remuneration
2003 Annual General Meeting are set out in the section 'Annual Report Regulations 2002. A resolution will be proposed to approve
General Meeting'. the Remuneration report.
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional
Auditors
shareholders on plans and objectives through a programme of
Following the transfer of PricewaterhouseCoopers’ business into
regular meetings. They both speak regularly at external conferences
a limited liability partnership, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, on
and presentations.
1st January 2003, PricewaterhouseCoopers resigned as auditors of
The Group’s Investor Relations department, with offices in London the company. The Audit Committee proposed, and the Board
and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors subsequently appointed, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors
throughout the year. of the company to fill the casual vacancy created by the resignation.
The website, www.gsk.com, gives access to current financial and Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers
business information about the Group. LLP as auditors and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine
their remuneration.
Share buy-back programme
In October 2002, following the completion of the £4 billion share Special business
buy-back programme announced in 2001, the company announced The company will seek to renew its authority to:
plans for a new £4 billion share buy-back programme.
• make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur
The programme covers purchases by the company of shares for EU Political Expenditure
cancellation, in accordance with the authority given by shareholders • give the Directors authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights
at the Annual General Meetings in 2001 and 2002. when allotting new shares in certain circumstances up to a
maximum of five per cent of the current issued share capital
In total £2.2billion was spent during 2002. In May 2002 the
• obtain authority to purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a
company was authorised to purchase a maximum of 617 million
maximum of just under ten per cent of the current issued
shares (623 million shares in May 2001) and 156 million shares
share capital.
were purchased for cancellation during 2002; details are given in
Note 27 to the Financial statements, ‘Share capital and share
Accountability, audit and internal control framework
premium account’. The exact amount and timing of future
purchases will be determined by the company and is dependent The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and
on market conditions and other factors. understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects.
The structure of accountability and audit operated in
Donations to Political Organisations and EUPolitical GlaxoSmithKline is as follows:
Expenditure
At the Annual General Meetings in May 2001 and 2002, Audit Committee and the Board
shareholders authorised the company to make donations to EU The Audit Committee of the Board has responsibility for reviewing,
Political Organisations and to incur EU Political Expenditure, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the system of internal
under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and control, management of risks, the external and internal audit
Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000 each year. The Group process, and the process for monitoring compliance with laws,
made donations to non-EU Political Organisations totalling regulations, and ethical codes of practice. An internal control
£554,000 during 2002. No donations were made to EUPolitical framework has been in operation for the whole of the year under
Organisations. review and continues to operate up to the date of approval of this
report.
Annual General Meeting
The Audit Committee receives regular reports on areas of significant
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Monday, risk to the Group and on related internal controls. Following
19th May 2003 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, consideration of these reports, the Committee reports annually
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. to the Board on the effectiveness of controls. Such controls may
mitigate but cannot eliminate risks. In addition, there are areas of
Directors the Group’s business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve
Sir Christopher Hogg, Dr Garnier, Sir Roger Hurn, Mr Coombe, a satisfactory return for shareholders. In these cases it is the
Sir Peter Job, Mr McArthur, Mr McHenry, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz company’s objective to apply its expertise in the prudent
and Dr Shapiro will each retire and offer themselves for re-election management rather than elimination of risk. The Directors’ review
to the Board under article 93 of the company's Articles of relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend
Association. Biographical details for each of them are given under to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other
'The Board' (page 32). investments.36 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
Having considered the Audit Committee reports on the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
effectiveness of controls, the Board believes that the system The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board
of internal controls provides reasonable although not absolute to oversee the risk management and internal control activities of
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The process the Group and to ensure that business units have designated
accords with the guidance on internal control issued by the managers to manage significant risks. Membership comprises
Turnbull Committee in 1999. several members of the CET and the heads of departments with
internal control, risk management, audit, or compliance
The Audit Committee also keeps under review the scope and
responsibilities. The ROCC’s responsibilities also include ensuring
results of the external audit and the independence and objectivity
that regular analysis is carried out to identify gaps in internal
of the external auditors. The Committee reviewed the nature and
controls and providing reports to the CET and Audit Committee in
extent of non-audit services the external auditors provided during
addition to the separate reports provided by individual internal
2002 to ensure that the services were not so significant as to call
control, audit, and compliance departments. A direct reporting line
into question the auditors’ independence from the Group. With
to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism for bypassing the
effect from 1st January 2003 the Committee will pre-approve all
executive management if irregularities are ever identified.
non-audit services to be provided by the external auditors.
The internal control framework relies on the ROCC, as well as
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of the Board
sector and other business unit Risk Management and Compliance
reviews, amongst other matters, external issues that have the
Boards (RMCBs), to help identify risks and to provide guidance to
potential for serious impact upon the Group’s business and
the risk management and compliance initiatives at the corporate
reputation and as such forms part of the internal control
and business unit levels. The ROCC meets regularly to review and
framework.
assess significant risks and mitigation plans directed against those
risks. The ROCC has developed the corporate policy referred to
Management structure
above and provided the business units with a framework for risk
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group is
management and for reporting risks to management and the
appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives agreed
ROCC. Mitigation planning and identification of a manager with
by the Board. To enable it to exercise this responsibility, the Board
overall responsibility for management of any given risk is a
requires from management information concerning the business,
requirement. While the ROCC oversees many of the risks deemed
including relevant information on risk exposures, internal controls
significant to GlaxoSmithKline, each RMCB oversees risks important
and external developments. The CEO reports to the Board and is
to its business or function, thus increasing the number of risks that
responsible for the management of the Group. To assist him in this
are actively managed across the Group. The ROCC is supported by
task, the CEO has established the CET, which is not a Committee
the Corporate Ethics & Compliance department.
of the Board. Key functional activities and management sectors
are represented on the CET.
Corporate Ethics & Compliance
The internal control framework includes central direction, resource The Corporate Ethics & Compliance department is responsible for
allocation, and risk management of the key activities of research supporting the development and implementation of practices that
and development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, facilitate employees’ compliance with laws and Group policy.
human resources, information systems, and financial practice. As The thrust of the Group’s compliance effort is due diligence in
part of this framework there is a comprehensive planning system preventing and detecting misconduct and non-compliance with
with an annual budget approved by the Board. The results of law or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with
operating units are reported monthly and compared to the all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels, and
budget. Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year. Extensive effective compliance systems. Compliance officers support the
financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises and risk Group’s main operating sectors of R&D, Manufacturing,
mitigation activities are reviewed by the Group’s internal auditors. Pharmaceuticals, and Consumer Healthcare. The Corporate
Commercial and financial responsibility, however, is clearly Compliance Officer chairs the ROCC, coordinates some of the
delegated to local business units, supported by a regional risk management activities among the various compliance and
management structure. These principles are designed to provide audit functions across the Group, and provides summary reports
an environment of central leadership coupled with local operating on the ROCC’s activities and the Group’s significant risks to the
autonomy as the framework for the exercise of accountability and Audit Committee on a regular basis.
control within the Group.
Areas of potentially significant risks
The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and
Areas of potentially significant risk that are subject to regular
procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and
reporting to and by the ROCC include the following. Further
control. A corporate policy, ‘Risk Management and Legal
details of the risks affecting the Group may be found in Note 30
Compliance’, mandates that business units establish processes
to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’ and in
for managing risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
‘Risk factors’ on pages 64 and 65.
In a number of risk areas, specific standards that meet or exceed
requirements of applicable law have been established.
Human resources
Specialist audit and compliance groups (for example Corporate
The legal requirements regarding discrimination and harassment,
Environment, Health and Safety and Worldwide Regulatory
the integrity of the workforce, including pre-employment screening,
Compliance) assist in the dissemination and implementation of
and the control and use of contractors and temporary staff are
and carry out audits of these standards.
risks inherent in a Group with over 100,000 employees.Corporate governanceGlaxoSmithKline 37
Research and development Information technology
Safety of marketed products is a potentially significant risk and a Protecting information technology assets is an increasing risk as
matter of great concern to GlaxoSmithKline, as is the conduct of businesses extend networks, systems and data to third parties,
laboratory and clinical practices in R&D. These must be in and as dependency on the Internet for communications increases.
accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as with Ensuring proper systems validation and electronic records and
corporate standards that may exceed such requirements. All signatures are key regulatory issues and matters of potential risk
pharmaceutical products bring with them benefits and risks, for the Group. Web systems accessible to the public must comply
including potential side effects. Pre-clinical and clinical trials are with legal and regulatory requirements and represent potential
conducted during the development of potential products to risks. Other potential risks include use of personally identifiable
determine the safety and efficacy of products for use by humans information, electronic record retention, outsourced business
following approval by regulatory bodies. In spite of these efforts, applications, and susceptibility to viruses and outside incursions.
when drugs are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated With much of the Group’s business dependent upon electronic
side effects may become evident. The Group views the use of means, disaster recovery also poses a potential risk.
animals and human tissue in the testing required to develop new
products as another risk. Security, environment and safety
Threats to the security and well being of our employees, property
Marketing and sales and the environment present significant risks for which appropriate
The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory safeguards and precautions are continually reviewed and upgraded.
environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The Group’s Employee injury, changes in health due to occupational conditions
policy is to conduct marketing in accordance with applicable laws and plant management and the potential impact of plants on the
and regulations as well as with corporate standards that may environment are potential risks the Group addresses through a
exceed such requirements. Any failure to observe applicable process that sets targets and provides guidance on how results
marketing codes, rules regarding government pricing, management may be achieved.
of samples, and legal restrictions on sale and marketing practices
may create significant risks to the commercial sectors and the The Combined Code
Group. Failure to comply may result in legal proceedings.
The company seeks to uphold, and to report on compliance with,
best practice in corporate governance. The Board is reviewing the
Legal and intellectual property
recommendations from Derek Higgs’ ‘Review of the role and
Product liability, intellectual property, antitrust and government
effectiveness of non-executive directors’ and Sir Robert Smith’s
investigations, and related private litigation are potential risks to
Report on ‘Audit Committees, Combined Code Guidance’ and
GlaxoSmithKline, and the Group is involved in various legal and
intends to ensure that the Group will continue to comply with
administrative proceedings in these areas. The outcome of these
the Listing Rule requirement in relation to ‘The Combined Code
proceedings cannot be predicted with any level of certainty.
– Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice’ (the
There is also a potential risk that third parties may allege that Combined Code) which is issued by the UK Listing Authority. The
the marketing of the Group’s own products will infringe the Combined Code comprises recommendations as to best practice
intellectual property rights of those third parties. in terms of the control and reporting functions of the board of
a company. The Combined Code sets out principles under the
Finance headings of:
There are potential risks surrounding the Group’s ability to forecast
the future and thus uncertainty about its ability to meet financial • directors
targets set out in its budgeting process. The Group invests in new • directors’ remuneration
products and ventures based on assumptions about the success of • relations with shareholders
those efforts that may prove to be inaccurate. In addition, there • accountability and audit and prescribes more detailed
are potential risks around the Group’s treasury operations including provisions in respect of each principle.
tax liabilities, transfer pricing, and the possibility of trading losses
Specifically the provisions require directors to report in the
and counterparty fraud. Compliance with evolving financial
Annual Report on:
disclosures and other legal reporting requirements constitute risks.
The Group’s pension liabilities represent a further area of potential
• directors’ remuneration
risk. Further discussion may be found in Note 33 to the Financial
• directors’ responsibility for the Financial statements
statements, ‘Employee costs’.
• going concern
• internal control.
Manufacturing
Maintaining supply of key GlaxoSmithKline products is a potentially
Compliance
significant risk. The Group’s policy is to take reasonable measures
The Directors’ report on compliance with the Combined Code
to ensure uninterrupted supply of product, including manufacturing
and other corporate governance requirements, and their reports
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations as well as with
in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, are set
corporate standards that may exceed such requirements. The
out under ‘Directors’ statements of responsibility’ (page 74).
Group takes efforts to minimise the single sourcing of key products.
Rationalising the supply chain and balancing manufacturing
capacity present other risks that could potentially disrupt the supply
of important products.38 GlaxoSmithKline Corporate governance
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures
Within the 90 days prior to the date of this report, the Group
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the
carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the
USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 (Sarbanes-
participation of the Group’s management, including the CEO
Oxley) which took effect on 30th July 2002. Sarbanes-Oxley
and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
establishes new or enhanced standards for corporate accountability
the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures. There are inherent
in the USA. A number of provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley apply to
limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls
GlaxoSmithKline because the company is quoted on the New York
and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the
Stock Exchange in the form of ADSs. Although the company’s
circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
corporate governance structure is believed to be robust and in
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures
line with best practice, certain changes were necessary to ensure
can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control
compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
objectives. Based upon and as of the date of the Group’s
As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission evaluation, the CEOand CFO concluded that the disclosure
(SEC), GlaxoSmithKline has established a Disclosure Committee. controls and procedures are effective in all material respects to
The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports the
Committee. It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the Group files and submits under the USSecurities Exchange Act of
members consist of senior managers from finance, legal, 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarised and
compliance and public and investor relations. It has responsibility reported as and when required.
for considering the materiality of information and on a timely
basis, determination of the disclosure and treatment of material Related party transactions
information. The Committee also has responsibility for the timely
GlaxoSmithKline held a 23 per cent interest in Quest Diagnostics
filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the
Inc. throughout 2002. This holding was reduced to 21 per cent
contents of GlaxoSmithKline’s Annual Report on Form 20-F.
in February 2003 following Quest’s acquisition of Unilab
Corporation. In December 2002 GlaxoSmithKline and Quest
CEO/CFO Certifications
amended the terms of their Global Trials Agreement, which is
Sarbanes-Oxley has introduced a requirement that the CEO and
a long-term contractual relationship under which Quest is the
the CFO must complete formal certifications, which require
primary provider of clinical laboratory testing to support the
confirmation that:
Group’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide.
• they have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 20-F
• it contains no material misstatements or omissions In February 2002, Mr Ingram, then a member of the CET,
• the Financial statements and other financial information fairly purchased a portion of land being part of a residential property
presents, in all material aspects, the financial condition, results owned by the Group that was adjacent to Mr Ingram’s own
of operations and cash flows for the period under the report residence. The total sale price was $16,500 based on an
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure independent valuation of the land. The Group subsequently
controls and procedures that ensure material information is determined that retention of the residential property no longer
made known to them and that they have evaluated the served its business needs and listed the property for sale. An
effectiveness of these controls and procedures within the past independent valuation of the property on 3rd June 2002 valued
90 days, the results of such evaluation being contained in it at $1,050,000 and the property was offered for sale through
the report an estate agent. Mr Ingram made the highest offer for the
• they have disclosed to the auditors and the Audit Committee property and purchased it from the Group for total
all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design consideration of $1,070,000.
or operation of internal controls and any fraud (regardless of
materiality) involving persons that have a significant role in Documents on display
the internal controls of GlaxoSmithKline
Documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for
• they have indicated in the report whether there were any
inspection at the Registered Office of the company.
significant changes in internal controls including any
corrective actions.
The CEO and CFO have completed these certifications which will
be filed with the SEC in the USA as part of the Group’s Form 20-F.GlaxoSmithKline 39
Remuneration report
The Remuneration report sets out the remuneration policies
operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on Directors’
remuneration including those required by schedule 7A to the
Companies Act 1985, The Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 (the Regulations). In accordance with the
Regulations, the following sections of the Remuneration report
are subject to audit: Annual remuneration; Non-Executive Directors’
share arrangements; Share options; Incentive plans and Pensions.
The remaining sections are not subject to audit.
40 Remuneration introduction
This describes the processes, policies and programmes which were
in effect in 2002.
46 Directors’ remuneration 2002
This sets out the remuneration earned in 2002 by Directors of
GlaxoSmithKline, together with their interests in share options and
share incentive plans.
50 Directors and Senior Management
This sets out the interests of Directors of GlaxoSmithKline in shares
of GlaxoSmithKline plc and in contracts. Information is also
provided on the aggregate remuneration and interests of Directors
and Senior Management of GlaxoSmithKline.40 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
2002 Directors’ remuneration report
This report is submitted to shareholders by the Board for approval In 2003, the Remuneration Committee engaged Deloitte & Touche
at the Annual General Meeting, as referenced in the Chairman’s to conduct an additional independent review of GlaxoSmithKline’s
letter and notice of Annual General Meeting, which has been sent current remuneration policy, including its competitiveness, and to
to all shareholders. advise the Committee as to the shaping and development of future
remuneration policy in the context of GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate
This report describes the background to and outlines the Group’s
base in the UK and the competitive needs of the business from a
remuneration policy. It also gives required information about the
global point of view.
earnings of Directors and senior management in 2002, as well as
about Directors’ interests in the shares of GlaxoSmithKline and in
Background
contracts.
GlaxoSmithKline is one of the world’s leading research-based
References to GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs mean, respectively, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies. As such, it has to
Ordinary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p and American be global in outlook and operations. The Group employs over
Depositary shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Each ADS represents 100,000 people in over 100 countries. Over 90 per cent of its
two GlaxoSmithKline shares. sales are generated outside the UK.
The USA is the largest pharmaceutical market in the world and is
The Remuneration Committee
fundamental to GlaxoSmithKline’s success and profitability. More
In reviewing governance arrangements, the Board decided during
than 50 per cent of its pharmaceutical sales are in the USA. The
the year to separate the roles of the former Remuneration and
Chief Executive Officer is based there, along with another eight of
Nominations (R&N) Committee in order to give a separate individual
the thirteen person Corporate Executive Team (CET). The CET has
Board focus to both functions. Accordingly a Remuneration
considerable global experience with over half the group having
Committee, with terms of reference revised to take into account
worked outside their home country.
latest governance standards, assumed the remuneration
responsibilities of the previous R&N Committee in October 2002. The quality and motivation of management matter enormously
The members of the Remuneration Committee, and previously the in a very large and complex company like GlaxoSmithKline. A
R&N Committee, are and have been at all times when the matters considerable corporate effort is required to recruit, develop and
relating to the directors’ remuneration for 2002 have been motivate talented people, and to ensure that managers at each
considered: Mr Allaire (Chairman), Dr Barzach, Sir Roger Hurn, level have the necessary breadth of experience, knowledge and
Mr McArthur, Mr McHenry and Mr Young until his retirement. leadership skills.
Mr Allaire succeeded Mr Young as chairman of the R&N Committee
The pharmaceutical industry is international and highly specialised.
on 20th May 2002. Sir Peter Job was appointed a member of the
It is characterised by a handful of global companies which compete
Committee on 7th February 2003. The Chairman and the Chief
as intensely for talent as they do for business. The industry’s top
Executive Officer (CEO) are invited to attend the Committee’s
managers and scientists are very much in demand, widely known
meetings except when their own remuneration is being considered.
in the industry and are internationally and corporately mobile. The
The Board will review the current terms of reference of all its
way all managers and scientists in GlaxoSmithKline are rewarded
committees in the light of the Higgs’ Review of the role and
and developed therefore has to be industry-competitive. It is crucial
effectiveness of non-executive directors and consequent changes
to their retention and effectiveness. Key market data with regard to
to the Combined Code. Any material changes to the Remuneration
remuneration for senior management, science based positions and
Committee’s terms of reference will be reported in next year’s
sales is provided by a survey which covers the following group of
report.
global pharmaceutical companies (the ‘competitor panel’):
Remit of the Remuneration Committee
Market Cap
The Remuneration Committee considers and regularly reviews the Constituents of the 31.12.02
Competitor Panel Location £m
Group’s policy on Executive remuneration for approval by the
Board and determines the individual remuneration packages of Abbott Laboratories USA 38,816
the members of the Corporate Executive Team. AstraZeneca UK 38,154
Aventis France 26,941
The policy set by the Remuneration Committee shapes
Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 27,854
remuneration at other levels within the Group affecting the
Eli Lilly USA 44,313
arrangements for the management population as a whole
Johnson &Johnson USA 99,105
(approximately 11,000 individuals, representing over 10 per cent
Merck USA 79,103
of the employee population).
Novartis Switzerland 65,390
Towers Perrin, a leading firm of remuneration and benefits Pfizer USA 117,011
consultants, provides strategic advice to GlaxoSmithKline on general Pharmacia USA 33,499
remuneration and benefits planning and also provides market data. Roche Switzerland 30,409
Towers Perrin also advises the Remuneration Committee, under a Schering-Plough USA 20,221
separate mandate, with regard to the remuneration of senior Wyeth USA 30,796
executive management and the Non-Executive Directors. Changes
At 31st December 2002 the market capitalisation of
to the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors are determined
GlaxoSmithKline was £71,809 million, compared to the average
by the GlaxoSmithKline Board itself on advice from the
market capitalisation of the group of £51,673 million.
Remuneration Committee.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 41
The majority of the competitor panel are US based companies In relating total remuneration opportunity to that available for
which operate globally. These companies are competing for the comparable roles within the competitor panel, the Committee’s
same talent and any perceived shortfall in GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is to provide the opportunity to earn total remuneration
competitive position could lead to a loss of key talent. within a range targeted between the median and 65th percentile
of that available among those comparable roles. These
GlaxoSmithKline’s remuneration policy was set out at the time
opportunities only crystallise where individual, team and corporate
of the merger, endorsed by shareholders then, and has made a
performance have met strategic, financial and related business
major contribution to the success of the merger.
objectives. To provide appropriate incentives for exceptional
performance, the Committee’s policy is to provide market
Remuneration policy
referenced opportunities beyond this for truly outstanding
GlaxoSmithKline’s remuneration policy is to pay at industry
performance.
competitive levels with a heavy emphasis on pay for performance
and ‘at risk’ remuneration. The policy is designed to: However, the Committee is aware that current levels of long term
incentives do not deliver this policy. Independent market data
• focus on long-term sustained success
demonstrates that GlaxoSmithKline’s top management
• focus on shareholder value through a strong emphasis on share
remuneration is currently uncompetitive with regard to long-term
plans
incentives. As a result their total remuneration opportunity for
• set high levels of minimum achievement
2002 was well below the industry median.
• ensure integrated performance assessment throughout the
management team to deliver concerted action towards success The Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor closely the
• provide opportunities to earn globally competitive rewards, but quantum and trend of the competitor panel’s awards and will
only if performance is delivered. consider what should be done in the best interests of the company
and its shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee believe that both individual and
team performance are directly linked to organisational success
Salary
and are, therefore, critical to GlaxoSmithKline’s future.
Base salaries are established by reference to the median for the
Global job evaluation for management level employees is monitored relevant market (in most cases this is the competitor panel) and
centrally to ensure consistency and the interlinking of performance will vary based on an executive’s experience, responsibility and
objectives from top to bottom of the management chain and market value. Adjustments to base salaries following appointment
throughout the Group. to a position are based on performance. Salaries are typically
reviewed on an annual basis.
GlaxoSmithKline’s Executive remuneration consists of four
components:
Performance bonus
• Salary This is based on a formal review of annual performance by business
• Performance bonus teams against demanding financial targets and on detailed
• Long-term incentives assessment of individual accomplishments against objectives.
• Benefits Bonuses are subject to upper limits, derived from practice across
the competitor panel. The highest of these limits is 200 per cent
The relative importance of the fixed and variable elements of pay
of base salary. On target business performance brings total annual
for the Executive Directors is illustrated in the table below:
cash remuneration into line with the competitor panel. Annual
cash remuneration rises if the target performance is exceeded,
Fixed Performance-related but falls well below the level of competitors if these targets are
Short-term incentives Long-term incentives not achieved. Executives may invest their bonus in GlaxoSmithKline
shares, in which case the bonus is enhanced by ten per cent but
Base pay Performance bonus Share option Performance
plan share plan the shares must be held for a minimum of three years.
Measures
Long-term incentives
Operating financial EPS growth of 9 TSR vs FTSE 100
These comprise share options and participation in a Performance
measures percentage points
greater than Retail EPS growth of 9 Share Plan that links reward to shareholder value over the long
Performance against Prices Index (RPI) percentage points and medium term respectively.
individual objectives over 3 years greater than RPI
over 3 years Performance conditions over the relevant measurement periods
for the different plans were designed to provide a competitive
15-25% 75-85%
remuneration package that, as a whole, focuses Executive Directors
on meeting the Group’s business objectives.
These components are subject to regular review to make sure that
The design of plans is reviewed to ensure that they evolve to meet
remuneration remains competitive and challenging. The following
the needs of a changing competitive environment, both in terms
sections provide greater detail on the performance conditions
of maintaining the competitive position in the global market and
above.
ensuring a focus on current business issues.42 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Share options Benefits
Share options allow the holder to buy shares at a future date at a The Executive Directors participate in GlaxoSmithKline’s senior
price determined by reference to the open market price of shares executive pension plans (see page 50 for details). Mr Coombe
at the time of grant. Share options are granted to more than participates in a defined benefit plan in the UK and Dr Garnier
11,000 managers at GlaxoSmithKline including the Executive in cash balance plans in the USA. Benefits are payable at age 60.
Directors. The vesting of options granted to Executive Directors
Executive Directors participate in legacy Glaxo Wellcome and
is subject to the performance condition that business performance
SmithKline Beecham all employee share plans in either the UK
earnings per share growth, excluding currency and exceptional
or the USA and in the GlaxoSmithKline plans that replaced them.
items, should be at least nine percentage points more than the
Under the US Retirement Savings Plan Dr Garnier received
increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over any three-year
four per cent of his basic salary in the form of GlaxoSmithKline
measurement period. With respect to future grants, the
shares.
Remuneration Committee reviews performance conditions
annually in the light of market conditions. However, it currently Under the UK arrangements, Mr Coombe is a member of the
considers that this performance condition achieves a balance Sharesave plan and contributes £250 per month with the option
between the expectations of UK institutional investor guidelines to buy shares at the end of the three year savings period at a
and the pressures of responding to market practice within the 20 per cent discount to the market price ruling at the start of the
competitor panel. savings period. Mr Coombe is also a member of the ShareReward
plan, contributing £125 per month to buy shares. The number of
Performance Share Plan shares bought each month is matched by the company. Both the
Participations in the Performance Share Plan are granted to Sharesave plan and ShareReward plan are Inland Revenue approved
approximately 700 top executives in the Group, including the plans open to all UK employees on the same terms.
Executive Directors, designating a target number of shares for
The Executive Directors also receive the following benefits, the cash
each participant. Vesting of awards under the plan is subject to
value of which is shown on page 46:
two performance conditions which apply during a three year
measurement period. No provision for re-testing operates in the • healthcare – medical and dental
event that the performance conditions are not satisfied over this • personal financial advice
period. • life assurance contributions
• personal/family travel.
The first condition, which applies to half of the award, compares
GlaxoSmithKline’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over the period
Share ownership guidelines
with the TSR of companies in the UK FTSE 100 Index over the
To align executive interest with that of shareholders, executives are
same period. If GlaxoSmithKline delivers returns which would rank
required to hold shares in the company. The Chief Executive Officer
in the top 20 of the FTSE 100 based on TSR performance, then all
is required to hold shares to the value of four times basic salary.
of the shares, in this part of the award, will vest. For the
Other Executive Directors are required to hold shares to the value
50th position in the FTSE 100, 40 per cent of the shares will vest.
of three times basic salary. Members of the CET are required to
If GlaxoSmithKline is ranked below 50th position, none of the
hold shares to the value of two times basic salary and other
shares, subject to this part of the award, will vest. Between the
executives, who participate in the Performance Share Plan,
20th and 50th positions, vesting will occur on a sliding scale.
one times salary. For the purposes of these requirements, shares
The second condition, which applies to the balance of the award, and ADSs held in the GlaxoSmithKline Annual Investment Plan
requires GlaxoSmithKline business performance earnings per share and the SmithKline Beecham bonus deferral plans, and vested
growth, excluding currency and exceptional items, to be at least but deferred awards under the SmithKline Beecham Mid-term
nine percentage points more than the increase in the UK Retail Incentive Plan are included. As at the year end Dr Garnier’s total
Prices Index over the three-year performance period. If this shareholding on this basis was 171,019 ADSs and Mr Coombe’s
condition is met then all of the shares, subject to this performance was 172,537 shares. As a result both Directors exceeded the share
condition, will vest. If this condition is not met, then none of the ownership guidelines.
shares, subject to this part of the performance condition, will vest.
The extent to which awards vest will be reported upon on Performance graph
completion of each performance period. The new regulations covering Directors’ remuneration require that
a graph be presented showing the company’s total shareholder
This combination of an earnings based measure and one based on
return (TSR) against the TSR performance of a broad equity market
shareholder return compared to the FTSE 100 Index was decided
index. The following graph shows GlaxoSmithKline’s TSR
on at the time of the merger following consultation. At that time,
performance against the FTSE 100, which has been chosen because
a number of shareholders with a UK equity mandate requested a
it is the principal index in which the company’s shares are quoted
performance measure tied to a UKequity index.
and against the competitor panel set out on page 40 which
Even if the performance conditions are met, the vesting of all indicates GlaxoSmithKline’s relative performance against its peers.
Performance Share Plan awards for the CET is subject to final
approval by the Remuneration Committee, which will consider
whether the final vesting is consistent with the underlying
financial performance of the Group.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 43
Performance graph The Remuneration Committee believes that the current termination
payments due under Executive Director’s contracts are justified
100 because they represent fair and reasonable compensation in the
event that the contracts are terminated, given market practice and
90
the associated restrictions arising from the need to protect
80 intellectual property.
70 Dr J P Garnier
Dr Garnier has a service agreement with SmithKline Beecham
60
31/12/00 31/12/01 31 /12/02 Corporation dated 2nd December 1999. The agreement expires
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index FTSE 100 Total Return Index on 31st October 2007, being the last day of the month in which
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index
Dr Garnier reaches his 60th birthday. Dr Garnier’s contract specifies
Notes the compensation to be paid on termination of his employment.
1.The TSR graph starts at the beginning of the first accounting year Dr Garnier’s current basic salary is US$1,450,000 and will be
following the formation of GlaxoSmithKline and uses as a base the share increased to US$1,522,500 on 1st April 2003.
price on 31st December 2000. Calculations for the graph are based on spot
Dr Garnier may terminate the agreement on giving 12 calendar
prices at the beginning and end of each year as required by the Directors
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, whereas GlaxoSmithKline’s months’ written notice, following which he is credited with an
performance conditions under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) use average extra three years’ pension contributions and he will be treated
prices over a period of a year. Therefore the above graph should not be as if he is three years older than his actual age.
taken as an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under the PSP.
SmithKline Beecham Corporation may terminate the agreement on
The average price method was selected for the PSP because it smoothes out
volatility and reduces the impact of any particularly large temporary price giving 24 calendar months notice. On termination by SmithKline
movements at either the beginning or end of the performance period. Beecham Corporation, other than for cause, Dr Garnier is entitled
to receive, within 30 days, a lump sum representing his salary and
2. Past performance should not be taken as a guide to future performance. bonus for the notice period. The bonus is calculated on the basis
of ‘on target’ performance which gives a bonus payout of
Executive Directors’ terms and conditions 100 per cent of basic salary.
The following section sets out the date and unexpired term of
In addition, for the first 12 months of the notice period Dr Garnier
each Executive Director’s contract, and details of other provisions
is entitled to receive share entitlements, under stock and share
necessary to enable shareholders to estimate the liability of the
incentive plans available to senior executives in the USA, except
company in the event of early termination.
to the extent of any part of that period that would fall beyond his
In determining its overall policy in respect of service contracts, retirement date, and he can be awarded only one annual share
the Committee aims to balance the costs associated with any early option grant and Performance Share Plan grant after the date of
termination provisions with the need to protect GlaxoSmithKline’s the termination notice.
intellectual property rights. The Committee maintains a close watch,
For pension purposes, he is provided with pension benefits such
through its advisors, on trends in contractual terms amongst other
that he is treated, by way of additional pension contributions or
companies in the competitor panel and in the wider market place.
otherwise, as if his employment had ended three years after the
It is committed to ensuring that, in achieving this balance, its
actual termination date, or three years after the expiry of his service
processes are fair, while limiting as far as possible the scope for
agreement in the event that Dr Garnier’s employment continues
‘rewarding failure’. The Committee has considered the recent
until the expiry of the service agreement. In addition, Dr Garnier
guidance produced by the Association of British Insurers and the
and his spouse will be treated as if they are both three years older
National Association of Pension Funds in the UK. It will take this
than their actual ages on the termination (other than for cause) or
into account, alongside market practice, when reviewing
expiry of the service agreement, as applicable, for the purpose of
contractual terms.
calculating annuity rates on which the pension will be based.
Executive Directors are employed on service contracts under which
He would also receive outplacement counselling and financial
the employing company is required to give 24 calendar months’
planning and advice for two years following termination, but this
notice of termination and the Executive Directors are required to
shall be limited to $20,000 per year and he can choose to have
give 12 calendar months’ notice.
life assurance cover which will provide a benefit of two times his
Executive Directors’ service contracts contain ‘garden leave’, salary until his 65th birthday.
non-competition, non-solicitation and confidentiality clauses.
Dr Garnier will continue to receive his benefits, or their cash value,
The Remuneration Committee currently believes that one year during the notice period. If Dr Garnier’s agreement is terminated
contracts would not be in the best interest of GlaxoSmithKline by reason of disability he will be treated as if still employed for the
with regard to offering a globally competitive overall remuneration purposes of his pension benefits until his retirement date.
package and securing maximum protection for its intellectual
In addition, if any payment or distribution to or for the benefit of
property rights.
Dr Garnier would be subject to excise tax, or any interest or
penalties are incurred, Dr Garnier is entitled to receive an additional
cash payment so that he is in the same after-tax position as if no
such additional tax had been imposed.44 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
In the event of retirement on the expiry of his service agreement or In addition, if Mr Coombe leaves employment through incapacity
in the event of termination of his employment by SmithKline before the age of 60, the pension he has already accrued becomes
Beecham Corporation (other than for cause) or in the event of payable from the date of his incapacity and may be augmented by
Dr Garnier not being elected or retained as a Director of the trustees of the pension plan to the amount to which he would
GlaxoSmithKline (or any merged company), or as a result of a have been entitled had he been employed in full service until 60.
change of control of GlaxoSmithKline (provided that such
In the event that notice of termination is given, other than in the
resignation occurs on or within 30 days after the first anniversary
case of redundancy, Mr Coombe is required to mitigate any loss of
of such change in control), then (a) all share option grants will vest
earnings resulting thereafter.
immediately and will remain exercisable until the expiry of the
option period as if Dr Garnier had still been employed by SmithKline In the event of Mr Coombe’s early retirement as a result of
Beecham Corporation and all performance and time conditions termination by GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (other than for
shall be deemed to have been satisfied, and (b) final awards under cause or redundancy), all outstanding options granted under the
the Performance Share Plan will be determined after the end of GlaxoSmithKline share option plan must be exercised within
the full performance period originally specified for the relevant 48 months from the date of grant. All outstanding options granted
participation without any proportionate reduction because of such under the Glaxo Wellcome share option plans must be exercised
retirement, termination or resignation. In respect of Dr Garnier’s within 12 months from cessation of employment or by the end of
participation in the SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Bonus the option period, if earlier, where such options are more than
Investment Plan, provided that his agreement is terminated other three years old and outstanding options less than three years old
than for cause, any deferred amount and any income, gains and must be exercised within 42 months from the date of grant. In
losses, are automatically distributed as soon as administratively each case, the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to
practicable after his termination. If Dr Garnier resigns, retires or allow a longer period of exercise.
the termination is for cause then any deferred amount is not
In the case of awards under the Performance Share Plan, if
distributed until the end of a minimum three year deferral period.
Mr Coombe’s employment contract is terminated for redundancy,
retirement or his employing company ceases to be a member of
Mr J D Coombe
the GlaxoSmithKline Group then the Remuneration Committee
Mr Coombe has a service agreement with Glaxo Wellcome plc,
will determine the percentage of each award that will vest under
now GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited, dated 14th February
the Plan rules after the end of the financial year in which the
2000. The agreement expires on 31st March 2005, being the last
cessation of employment occurred. This will ordinarily be calculated
day of the month in which Mr Coombe reaches his 60th birthday.
by reference to the performance period which has elapsed and the
Mr Coombe’s current basic salary is £475,000, and will be increased extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied over
to £495,000 on 1st April 2003. that period. If his employment ceases for any other reason before
the end of the awards performance period, the awards will lapse
Mr Coombe may terminate the agreement on giving 12 calendar
unless the Committee determines otherwise.
months’ written notice.
In respect of Mr Coombe’s participation in the Glaxo Wellcome
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited may terminate the agreement
Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) special rules apply when a
on 24 calendar months’ written notice or without notice in the
participant’s employment ends. However all awards made to
event of Mr Coombe’s gross misconduct, wilful neglect, dishonesty,
Mr Coombe under the LTIP have now vested on the completion
bankruptcy or conviction of a criminal offence affecting his position
of the measurement period.
as a senior executive.
Mr Coombe’s agreement specifies that the compensation in cash Other entitlements
to be paid in the event of redundancy will be as follows: In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above in the
event that Dr Garnier or Mr Coombe’s service agreements are
• an amount equal to twice his annual rate of salary terminated by their employing company they would be entitled to:
• an amount on account of bonus equal to 80 per cent of his
• the Special Deferred Bonus awarded to each member of the
annual rate of salary
CET in respect of 2001 and payable on 15th February 2005,
• an amount equal to the value of two years’ benefit.
unless terminated for cause prior to that date. Details of this
In such circumstances, Mr Coombe’s pension entitlement will also bonus are given on page 46
be augmented by an amount equal in value to the pension which
• in the case of awards under the GlaxoSmithKline Annual
would have accrued to him over the period of 24 months
Investment Plan, provided that their agreement is terminated
commencing on the date of termination of his employment.
other than for cause, any deferred amount and any income,
After a period of 12 consecutive months incapacity or after gains and losses, are automatically distributed as soon as
Mr Coombe becomes entitled to a disablement pension, he is administratively practicable after termination. If they resign,
entitled to an amount equivalent to the amount he would have retire or the termination is for cause then any deferred
received had he worked for a period of 24 months from the first amount is not distributed until the end of a minimum
day of his absence less any amounts actually received during that three year deferral period.
period.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 45
Non-Executive Directors Sir Peter Walters and Mr John Young
Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service Sir Peter Walters retired as Deputy Chairman and as a
contracts but instead have letters of appointment. The company Non-Executive Director, and Mr Young retired as a Non-Executive
aims to provide Non-Executive Directors with fees that are Director, with effect from 20th May 2002. Sir Peter’s and
competitive with other companies of equivalent size and complexity. Mr Young’s letters of appointment were both dated 19th June 2000
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation if their and in both cases it was agreed that they serve the company as
appointment is terminated. Non-Executive Directors until the conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting following the third anniversary of their appointment.
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders and as
In both cases this could have been extended for a further term
set out in the table below, GlaxoSmithKline requires Non-Executive
of three years by mutual agreement. Sir Peter received fees of
Directors to receive a significant part of their fees in the form of
£80,000 per annum together with an allocation of 3,000 ordinary
shares allocated to a share account and offers the opportunity to
shares under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Arrangements.
invest part or all of the balance of fees in a share account. These
Mr Young received fees of $88,000 per annum together with an
shares are not paid out until the Director’s retirement from the
allocation of 500 American Depositary Shares made under the
Board, or at a later date, on the basis of dividends being reinvested
Non-Executive Directors’ Share Arrangements.
in the interim.
The Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the chairmen of the Sir Roger Hurn, Mr Paul Allaire, Dr Michèle Barzach, Sir Peter
Board Committees receive higher fees. Job, Mr John McArthur, Mr Donald McHenry, Sir Ian Prosser,
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz and Dr Lucy Shapiro
Terms and conditions
The letters of appointment for all of the above Directors were
Sir Richard Sykes dated 19th June 2000 and in all cases it was agreed that they
Sir Richard Sykes retired as Chairman and as a Non-Executive serve the company as Non-Executive Directors until the conclusion
Director on 20th May 2002. Sir Richard’s letter of appointment to of the Annual General Meeting following the third anniversary of
the Board was dated 20th June 2000, under which it was agreed their appointment. In all cases this could be extended for a further
that he serve the company as a Non-Executive Director until the term of three years by mutual agreement. The fees payable and
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting following the third the share allocations under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share
anniversary of his appointment. This could have been extended Arrangements for each of these directors is as follows:
for a further term of three years by mutual agreement.
Sir Richard received fees of £300,000 per annum together with 2002
an allocation of 6,000 shares under the Non-Executive Directors’ Non-Executive Annual Shares Allocated
Directors Fees Annually
Share Arrangements.
Sir Roger Hurn £80,000 3,000 ordinary shares
Following his retirement from the Board, and in recognition of his Paul Allaire $88,000 500 ADSs
services to the company, the Board decided to make an Michèle Barzach £45,000 1,000 ordinary shares
augmentation payment to the pension plan of £300,000 in respect Sir Peter Job £45,000 1,000 ordinary shares
of Sir Richard. It was also agreed that for a period of two years, John McArthur $72,000 500 ADSs
from 1st June 2002, Sir Richard be appointed Senior Advisor to the Donald McHenry $72,000 500 ADSs
company, at a salary of £49,000 per annum. Sir Ian Prosser £45,000 1,000 ordinary shares
Ronaldo Schmitz £55,000 1,000 ordinary shares
The company has agreed to procure that Sir Richard Sykes’ pension
Lucy Shapiro $72,000 500 ADSs
from the age of 60 will be calculated on the basis of his salary as
at 31st December 2000 and as if he had remained in full-time
employment until his 60th birthday. Mr Allaire succeeded Mr Young as Chairman of the R&N
Committee on 20th May 2002 and his fees were increased to
Sir Christopher Hogg
$88,000 per annum from that date. Mr McHenry succeeded
Sir Christopher Hogg’s letter of appointment to the Board was
Sir Christopher Hogg as Chairman of the Corporate Social
dated 19th June 2000, under which it was agreed that he serve
Responsibility Committee on 7th February 2003 and his fees were
the company as a Non-Executive Director until the conclusion of
increased to $88,000 per annum from that date. Sir Ian Prosser
the Annual General Meeting following the third anniversary of his
succeeded Sir Christopher Hogg as Chairman of the Nominations
appointment. This can be extended for a further term of three
Committee on 7th February 2003 and his fees were increased to
years by mutual agreement.
£55,000 per annum from that date.
Sir Christopher’s letter of appointment was amended on
1st September 2002 to record his appointment as Non-Executive Directors and Senior Management Remuneration
Chairman with effect from 20th May 2002. On becoming The following tables set out for the Directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Chairman, Sir Christopher’s fees were increased from the remuneration earned in 2002; their interest in shares of
£45,000 per annum plus an allocation of 1,000 shares per annum GlaxoSmithKline plc; their interests in share options and incentive
under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Arrangements, to plans and their pension benefits. The members of the Corporate
£300,000 per annum plus an allocation of 6,000 shares per annum. Executive Team (CET) and Company Secretary, known as the Senior
Management, also participate in the same remuneration plans as
the Executive Directors and the aggregate remuneration and
interests of the Directors and Senior Management are also provided.46 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Annual remuneration
2002 2001
Total Annual and Total
Fees and Other Annual annual Fees and Other deferred annual
salary benefits bonus remuneration salary benefits bonus remuneration
Footnote £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Executive Directors
Dr J P Garnier a,c 967 132 1,353 2,452 932 101 2,417 3,450
Mr J D Coombe b,c 475 15 457 947 475 3 848 1,326
Total 1,442 147 1,810 3,399 1,407 104 3,265 4,776
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Richard Sykes d,e 154 8 – 162 411 3 – 414
Sir Christopher Hogg 252 – – 252 63 – – 63
Sir Roger Hurn 121 – – 121 135 – – 135
Sir Peter Walters e 51 2 – 53 135 1 – 136
Mr P A Allaire 68 – – 68 68 – – 68
Dr M Barzach f 100 – – 100 102 – – 102
Mr D C Bonham g – 5 – 5 29 – – 29
Sir Peter Job 59 – – 59 63 – – 63
Mr J H McArthur f 62 – – 62 73 – – 73
Mr D F McHenry 62 – – 62 68 – – 68
Sir Ian Prosser 59 – – 59 63 – – 63
Dr R Schmitz 69 – – 69 70 – – 70
Dr L Shapiro h 62 – – 62 68 – – 68
Mr J A Young e 29 2 – 31 80 – – 80
Total 1,148 17 – 1,165 1,428 4 – 1,432
Total remuneration 2,590 164 1,810 4,564 2,835 108 3,265 6,208
a In previous years, Dr Garnier’s salary and fees have included GlaxoSmithKline’s match on compensation that is deferred. For 2002 this is included within
contributions to money purchase schemes. Dr Garnier’s salary and fees for 2001 have been restated by £58,419, representing GlaxoSmithKline’s match
in 2001, in order to provide consistent presentation.
b Mr Coombe’s bonus for 2001 includes GlaxoSmithKline’s match on his deferred 2001 bonus. In addition to the bonus shown above for 2001,
Mr Coombe received £142,500 in 2001 awarded in respect of the second half of 2000 when he was an Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
c The 2001bonus for Dr JPGarnier and Mr Coombe includes the special deferred bonus awarded to them as members of the CET. The amount awarded
was equivalent to their salary on 31st December 2001 and was notionally invested in GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs on 15th February 2002. The bonus
to be paid out on 15th February 2005 will be an amount equivalent to the then value of shares or ADSs notionally acquired in February 2002 plus
dividends reinvested over the period. As at 31st December 2002 the value of those shares or ADSs notionally acquired in respect of Dr JPGarnier was
£687,946, a decrease of 32 per cent over the year. This includes dividends reinvested during the year of £15,225. Those shares notionally acquired in
respect of Mr Coombe were valued at £329,957 as at 31st December 2002, a decrease of 31 per cent over the year. This includes dividends reinvested
during the year of £7,521.
d In addition to the above, Sir Richard Sykes received £28,583relating to his appointment as Senior Advisor from 1st June 2002. In 2001, Sir Richard
received a bonus of £314,700 awarded in respect of the second half of 2000 when he was Executive Chairman of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
e On 20th May 2002, Sir Richard Sykes, Sir Peter Walters and Mr Young retired from the Board. Following retirement they received the value of their shares
and ADSs as awarded under the Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements (page 47) and equivalent SmithKline Beecham arrangements. As at
20th May 2002 they had been awarded shares and ADSs with a total value at the date of award, as indicated: Sir Richard Sykes £135,530; Sir Peter Walters
£249,876; Mr Young £187,034. On 20th May 2002 the value of these shares and ADSs as paid to them was: Sir Richard Sykes £122,860; Sir Peter Walters
£241,468; Mr Young £174,354. The change in value is attributable to dividends re-invested and the change in share price between the dates of awards
and 20th May 2002. Mr Young has elected to receive the value of his shares as at 20th May 2002 in three equal annual instalments and accordingly,
received £58,118 in 2002.
f Dr Barzach received fees of Euro 66,369 (2001 – Euro 62,428) from GSKFrance for healthcare consultancy provided. This is included within fees and salary
above. In 2001, Mr McArthur received fees of £4,631as a Director of Glaxo Wellcome Inc. Mr McArthur no longer receives these fees. In 2001 these were
shown as other emoluments and have been restated to fees and salary, in accordance with the requirements of schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985,
The Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 (‘schedule 7A’).
g Mr Bonham resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 21stMay 2001. During 2002 Mr Bonham received £5,000 in respect of 2001 and the value of his
shares, as at 21st May 2001, as allocated under the Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements (page 47). As at 21st May 2001 he had been awarded
shares valued at £4,539 at the date of award. On 21st May 2001 these shares were worth £4,860. The change in value is attributable to dividends
re-invested and the change in share price between the date of award and 21st May 2001.
h Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board for which she received fees, in addition to those shown above of $85,000
(2001 – $85,000) with $30,000 (2001 – $30,000) in the form of ADSs.
Where the Directors above have received part or all of their remuneration in currencies other than sterling, the average rates of exchange for the year have
been used. None of the above Directors received expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by schedule 7A.Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 47
Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements
Non-Executive Directors are required to receive part of their fees in the form of shares and ADSs which are detailed below together with
their value at the dates of award. They may also elect to receive part or all of the balance of their fees in the form of shares and ADSs.
The shares allocated to their accounts, which are not transferred to them until retirement, are also included in Directors’ interests.
Total value 2002 2001
of holdings
at 31.12.02 Allocated Elected Allocated Elected
£ Shares ADSs £ £ Shares ADSs £ £
Sir Richard Sykes – 1,500 – 24,535 – 6,000 – 110,995 –
Sir Christopher Hogg 111,141 4,063 – 50,713 37,500 1,000 – 18,499 –
Sir Roger Hurn 128,827 3,000 – 40,733 40,000 3,000 – 55,498 30,000
Sir Peter Walters – 750 – 12,268 10,000 3,000 – 55,498 30,000
Mr PAAllaire 34,946 – 500 13,720 – – 500 18,457 –
Dr M Barzach 24,338 1,000 – 13,578 – 1,000 – 18,499 –
Mr DCBonham – – – – – 250 – 4,539 –
Sir Peter Job 87,128 1,000 – 13,578 45,000 1,000 – 18,499 33,750
Mr JHMcArthur 35,827 – 500 13,720 – – 500 18,457 18,750
Mr D F McHenry 34,946 – 500 13,720 – – 500 18,457 –
Sir Ian Prosser 67,254 1,000 – 13,578 22,500 1,000 – 18,499 16,875
Dr R Schmitz 54,830 1,000 – 13,578 22,000 1,000 – 18,499 16,170
Dr L Shapiro 53,666 – 500 13,720 – – 500 18,457 –
Mr J A Young – – 125 3,886 14,667 – 500 18,457 45,833
The total value of holdings as at 31st December 2002 represents the value of those shares and ADSs awarded in 2002 and prior years,
together with the value of dividends re-invested. Upon retirement the Non-Executive Directors will receive either the shares and ADSs or
a cash amount equal to the value of the shares and ADSs as at the date of retirement.
Directors’ interests
The following beneficial interests of the Directors of the company are shown in the register maintained by the company in accordance
with the Companies Act 1985:
Shares ADSs
3rd March31st December 31st December 3rd March31st December 31st December
Footnote 2003 2002 2001 2003 2002 2001
Dr J P Garnier – – – 55,639 55,010 53,735
Mr J D Coombe a,b 173,243 172,537 150,836 – – –
Sir Christopher Hogg d 13,714 13,714 6,216 – – –
Sir Roger Hurn d 21,695 21,695 15,519 – – –
Mr P A Allaire d – – – 7,192 7,192 6,660
Dr M Barzach d 3,028 3,028 1,990 – – –
Sir Peter Job d 9,537 9,531 5,023 – – –
Mr J H McArthur d – – – 6,314 6,281 5,631
Mr D F McHenry c,d – – – 4,345 4,345 3,795
Sir Ian Prosser d 7,047 7,047 4,255 – – –
Dr R Schmitz d 4,600 4,600 1,878 2,840 2,840 3,840
Dr L Shapiro d 1,570 1,570 1,518 3,399 3,399 2,218
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
a Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan totalling 225 shares at 31st December 2002 (2001 – 14) and 271shares at
3rd March 2003.
b Includes a non-beneficial interest in trusts which hold 13,241 shares at 31st December 2002 (2001 – 16,901) and nil shares at 3rd March 2003.
c In addition to the interests shown above, Mr McHenry has interests in a deferred fees plan relating to the period during which MrMcHenry was
a Director of SmithKline Beckman priorto the merger with Beecham Group in 1989. The deferred fees are now indexed to the total return on
GlaxoSmithKline shares and are payable over seven years following Mr McHenry’s retirement as a Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline.
The total accumulated value of deferred fees on 31st December 2002, restated to reflect the merger and fully provided for, was equivalent to 21,964
GlaxoSmithKline ADSs.
d Includes shares and ADSs received as part or all of their fees as described under Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements above. Dividends received
on these shares and ADSs were converted to shares and ADSs as at 31st December 2002. These are also included in the Directors’ interests above.
The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 3rdMarch 2003 reflect changes between the end of the financial year and 3rdMarch 2003.48 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Share options
Granted
Weighted average
Options – ADSs At 31.12.01 grant price Number At 31.12.02
Dr J P Garnier 2,897,443 $37.25 450,000 3,347,443
Granted
Weighted average
Options – Shares At 31.12.01 grant price Number At 31.12.02
Mr JDCoombe 867,948 £11.78 291,031 1,158,979
Sir Richard Sykes 634,701 – – 634,701
Dr JPGarnier was granted 450,000 options over ADSs during 2002. These were granted on 3rd December 2002 at a grant price of
$37.25. Mr JDCoombe was granted 290,000 options over shares on 3rd December 2002 at a grant price of £11.79. He was also
granted 1,031 options over shares in the GlaxoSmithKline Sharesave scheme on 1st December 2002 at a grant price of £9.16.
For those options outstanding at 31st December 2002 the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for those above and below the
market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share at the year end are given in the table below.
Vesting date Lapse date
Weighted average
grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Dr JPGarnier Above market price at year end $54.45 2,258,772 13.11.00 28.11.04 12.11.07 27.11.11
Below market price at year end $26.62 1,088,671 31.05.97 03.12.05 30.05.04 02.12.12
Mr JDCoombe Above market price at year end £16.97 867,948 01.12.02 28.11.04 31.05.03 27.11.11
Below market price at year end £11.78 291,031 01.12.05 03.12.05 31.05.06 02.12.12
All options held by Sir Richard Sykes have a grant price above the market price of a GlaxoSmithKline share at year end.
GlaxoSmithKline grants share options to Executive Directors and Senior Managers on an annual basis around November. An initial grant
was made following completion of the merger in March 2001. The measurement period for the options granted in March 2001
commenced on 1st January 2001. The measurement period for options granted in November 2001 and 2002 commenced on
1st January 2002 and 2003 respectively.
The Directors hold these options under the various share option plans referred to in Note 34 to the Financial statements, ‘Employee share
schemes’. None of the other Directors had an interest in any option over the company’s shares.
Following the merger, each of the Directors above elected to exchange their outstanding options in the legacy share option plans for
options over GlaxoSmithKline shares. These Directors and all other participants in those legacy schemes who made such an election, will
receive an additional benefit of a cash sum equal to ten per cent of the grant price of the original option. This additional benefit will be
given when the new option is exercised or lapses, provided the exercise or lapse is on or after the second anniversary of the effective date
of the merger (or, as in the case of Sir Richard Sykes, on cessation of executive employment, if earlier).
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31st December 2002 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £17.80 and £10.57
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADSs during the year to 31st December 2002 were $50.87 and $32.86
respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2002 was £11.92 (on 31st December 2001 – £17.23) and
for a GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $37.46 (on 31st December 2001 – $49.82). The share price on 3rd March 2003 was £11.22 per
GlaxoSmithKline Share and $35.27 per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
2002 2001
Options exercised – ADSs Gain Gain
Dr J P Garnier – £2,407,497
2002 2001
Options exercised – shares Gain Gain
Mr JDCoombe – –
Sir Richard Sykes – £1,495Remuneration reportGlaxoSmithKline 49
Incentive plans
Granted
ADSs Market ADSs
Performance Share Plan – ADSs at 31.12.01 Number price at 31.12.02
Dr J P Garnier – 2001 award 70,000 – – 70,000
2002 award 70,000 – – 70,000
2003 award – 70,000 $37.25 70,000
Granted
Shares Market Shares
Performance Share Plan – shares at 31.12.01 Number price at 31.12.02
Mr J D Coombe – 2001 award 40,000 – – 40,000
2002 award 40,000 – – 40,000
2003 award – 40,000 £11.79 40,000
The Performance Share Plan (PSP) is a medium-term incentive scheme introduced during 2001. The PSP replaces the Long-Term Incentive
Plan and the Mid-Term Incentive Plan operated respectively by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant three year measurement
period and is dependent on GlaxoSmithKline’s performance during that period as described on page 42. The share awards are granted
annually in November or December and the measurement period commences on the following 1st January and ends after three years, on
31st December. Following completion of the merger an initial grant was made in March 2001. The measurement period for those awards
commenced on 1st January 2001 and will end on 31st December 2003.
Shares exercised
Market Average Money
price on market price value on
Shares award on exercise exercise
Long-Term Incentive Plan – shares at 31.12.01 Number £ £ £ at 31.12.02
Mr J D Coombe 41,100 18,087 18.58 16.22 293,370 23,013
The Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) was a share award scheme operated by Glaxo Wellcome. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further grants have been made. The awards made to Mr Coombe in March 1999 and February 2000
vested in March 2002 and February 2003 respectively on completion of the measurement periods. In connection with the merger the
performance conditions in respect of the grants made in March 1999 and February 2000 have been waived. Awards made under the LTIP
will lapse if not exercised within 12 months of vesting. Shares under the LTIP are awarded atnominal cost to the recipient.
Vested and Vested and
Unvested Participations Unvested deferred Participations Dividends deferred
participations vesting participations participations vested reinvested participations
Mid-Term Incentive Plan – ADSs at 31.12.01 in 2002 at 31.12.02 at 31.12.01 in 2002 in 2002 at 31.12.02
Dr J P Garnier 73,970 36,985 36,985 76,323 36,985 2,701 116,009
The Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) was a share award scheme operated by SmithKline Beecham. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further participations have been granted. In connection with the merger, the performance conditions in
respect of grants made in 1999 have been waived. The measurement period ended on 31st December 2002.
The participations that vested in 2002 were awarded to Dr Garnier on 29th October 1998 when theADS price was $54.48.The ADS price at
the time of vesting was $47.50. Where a final award of ADS is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director. Dr Garnier deferred
receipt of the full amount awarded in 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002. The deferred awards, together with any additional ADSs subsequently
received through dividend reinvestment, arenot included in the Directors’ interests table on page 47 since technically they are retained in the
MTIP until paid out.
Average
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) – ADSs At 31.12.01 At 31.12.02 grant price
Dr L Shapiro 1,487 1,487 $50.34
All SARs held by Dr L Shapiro have a grant price above the market price of a GlaxoSmithKline ADS at year end.
Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). Dr Shapiro was a member of SmithKline Beecham’s SAB from
1993 until the completion of the merger with Glaxo Wellcome. Along with other members of the SAB, she received annual grants of
SmithKline Beecham SARs which, in general, vested three years from the date of grant and will expire 10 years from the date of grant.
Grants of SARs to SAB members ceased in 1999.
SARs entitle the holder to a cash sum at a future date based on share price growth between the date of grant and the date of exercise.
Full provision is made in the financial statements for accrued gains on SARs from the date of grant. In connection with the merger, all
previously granted SARs became immediately exercisable.50 GlaxoSmithKline Remuneration report
Pensions
Pension benefits are accruing to the following Directors under defined benefit schemes. The accrued annual benefits and transfer values
for individual Directors on retirement are set out below.
Schedule 7A requires disclosure of: the accrued benefit at the end of the year; the change in accrued benefit over the year; the transfer
value at both the beginning and end of the year and the change in the transfer value over the year. The Listing Rules require additional
disclosure of the change in accrued benefit net of inflation and the transfer value of this change.
Change in
Change in Change accrued Transfer value
Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer over year benefit over of change
benefit benefit value value in transfer year net in accrued
at 31.12.02 over year at 31.12.01 at 31.12.02 value* of inflation benefit*
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Dr J P Garnier 929 56 4,966 5,578 612 33 612
Mr J D Coombe 291 17 4,399 4,723 324 12 194
Sir Richard Sykes 729 29 12,573 15,253 2,680 29 887
* The change in transfer value is shown net of contributions made by the individual.
Dr Garnier is also a member of a money purchase scheme. During 2002 contributions of £92,800 were paid into this scheme.
FollowingSir Richard Syke’s retirement from the Board, and in recognition of his services to the company, the Board decided to make an
augmentation payment to the pension plan of £300,000. As Sir Richard was not a Director for the full year, the change in accrued benefit
has not been revalued for the effects of inflation and the transfer value of the change in accrued benefit has been calculated as at his date
of leaving. Sir Richard’s transfer value at 31st December 2002 has been calculated on the basis of ‘pensions in payment’ and includes the
additional benefits granted at retirement.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The transfer
values represent the present value of future payments for the plans rather than remuneration currently due to the individual and cannot
be meaningfully aggregated with annual remuneration.
Directors and Senior Management
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management
asagroup (‘the group’). For the purposes of this disclosure, the group is defined as the Directors, members of the CET and the Company
Secretary. In respect of the financial year 2002, the total compensation paid to members of the group for the periods during which they
served in that capacity was £14,944,872, the aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits was £309,080 and the aggregate payment
to defined contribution schemes was £328,973. During 2002 members of the group were granted options over 873,686 shares and
1,040,000 ADSs and awarded 126,000 shares and 160,000 ADSs in the Performance Share Plan. As of 3rdMarch 2003, the then-current
members of the group (comprised of 24 persons) owned 334,239 shares and 294,286 ADSs, constituting less than one per cent of the
issued share capital of the company. The group also held, as of that date: options to purchase 3,561,739 shares and 6,497,566 ADSs;
367,000 shares and 480,000 ADSs awarded under the Performance Share Plan; 16,968 shares under the legacy Glaxo Wellcome
Long-Term Incentive Plan; 6,042 shares and 257,945 ADSs under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan, including
those shares and ADSs that are vested and deferred and 1,487 ADSs awarded under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Stock Appreciation
Rights. All such holdings were issued pursuant to the various executive share option plans described in Note 34 to the Financial statements,
‘Employee share schemes’.
Directors’ interest in contracts
Except as described under Related party transactions, during or at the end of the financial year no Director or connected person had any
material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business with a Group company. (See Note 35 to the Financial
statements, ‘Related party transactions’).
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and agreed on its behalf by
Mr Paul Allaire,
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
10th March 2003GlaxoSmithKline 51
Operating and financial review
and prospects
The Operating and financial review and prospects discusses the
operating and financial performance of the Group, the financial
outlook and the financial resources of the Group, under the
following headings:
52 Financial trends and ratios
53 2002 Year – results for the year to 31st December 2002 compared
to the year to 31st December 2001
60 Financial position and resources – at 31st December 2002
64 Outlook and risk factors
Additionally, in accordance with US requirements:
66 2001 Year – results for the year to 31st December 2001 compared
to the year to 31st December 2000
71 Selected financial data UK/US GAAP
72 Results under US accounting principles 2002 and 2001
The results for each year are compared primarily with the results
for the preceding year. Reference is made also to quarterly and
half-yearly trends within the results.
Exchange
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many
countriesand earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore
affected bymovements in exchange rates between sterling and
overseascurrencies.
The Group uses the average exchange rates prevailing during the
period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas Group
subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures into
sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
undertakings. The currencies which most influence these translations
are the USdollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
During 2002 average sterling exchange rates were stronger
against the US dollar and the Japanese Yen by four per cent and
seven per cent, respectively, and weaker against the Euro by
one per cent, compared with 2001.
Business performance and constant exchange rates
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure
used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of businesses.
Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items
provides a better comparison of business performance for the
periods presented. Statutoryresults include these non-recurring
items.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s
practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate
(CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange
rates used todetermine the results of overseas companies in
sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous
year.
The discussion in this review is therefore in terms of CER unless
otherwise stated.52 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial trends and ratios
2001 2000
Statutory results 2002 (restated) (restated)
£m CER % £m CER % £m
Sales - Pharmaceuticals 17,995 8 17,205 9 15,429
Consumer Healthcare 3,217 2 3,284 22 2,650
Total 21,212 7 20,489 11 18,079
Cost of sales (4,609) – (4,733) 19 (3,962)
Selling, general and administration (8,041) (1) (8,408) 15 (7,136)
Research and development (2,900) 12 (2,651) 3 (2,526)
Trading profit 5,662 26 4,697 1 4,455
Profit before taxation 5,506 28 4,517 (28) 6,029
Earnings 3,915 35 3,053 (29) 4,106
Basic earnings per share (pence) 66.2p 38 50.3p (29) 67.7p
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
Cost of sales (366) (303) (151)
Selling, general and administration (498) (957) (404)
Research and development (168) (96) (16)
Trading profit (1,032) (1,356) (571)
Profit before taxation (1,011) (1,652) 702
Earnings (712) (1,330) 452
Business performance results
Sales 21,212 7 20,489 11 18,079
Cost of sales (4,243) (2) (4,430) 15 (3,811)
Selling, general and administration (7,543) 5 (7,451) 8 (6,732)
Research and development (2,732) 9 (2,555) (1) (2,510)
Trading profit 6,694 15 6,053 16 5,026
Profit before taxation 6,517 11 6,169 12 5,327
Adjusted earnings 4,627 11 4,383 16 3,654
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 78.3p 13 72.3p 16 60.2p
Research and development – business performance
Pharmaceuticals 2,629 2,453 2,435
Consumer Healthcare 103 102 75
Total 2,732 2,555 2,510
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items
provides a better comparison of business performance for the periods presented. Accordingly, this information is provided as a supplement
to that included in the consolidated statement of profit and loss on pages 76 and 77 prepared in accordance with UKGAAP. Statutory
results include these non-recurring items.
During 2002 FRS19 ‘Deferred tax’ has been implemented by the Group. This FRS requires deferred tax to be accounted for on a full
provision basis, rather than a partial provision basis as in 2001 and earlier years. This change in basis has been accounted for as a prior year
adjustment and comparative information has been restated as necessary.
Interest
Net interest payable 141 88 182
Interest cover 40 times 52 times 34 times
Interest cover is calculated as statutory profit before interest divided by net interest payable.
Tax rate
Business performance 27.0% 26.8% 28.1%
Statutory results 26.5% 29.5% 29.0%
Borrowings
Net debt 2,335 2,101 611
Gearing 24% 20% 6%
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds, net debt and minority interests.Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 53
2002 Year
World economy World market – pharmaceuticals
The world’s economy began 2002 in an upbeat fashion, in the Global pharmaceutical sales increased by 10.6 per cent in 2002 to
expectation that recent interest rate cuts on both sides of the £268billion.
Atlantic would revive consumer confidence and provide relief to
the corporate sector still feeling the effects of the September 11 World market by Value % of Growth
geographic region £bn total £%
tragedy.
USA 126 47.0 15.3
The general optimism proved to be misplaced, as a combination of
Europe 67 25.0 9.1
weaker than anticipated economic growth, corporate scandals,
Germany 13 4.9 9.4
bankruptcies, profit warnings, dividend cuts, the forced selling of
France 13 4.9 5.6
equities, soaring stock market volatility, fears of deflation and
UK 9 3.3 12.8
conflict in the Middle East all took their toll. Share prices across the
Italy 8 3.0 6.4
developed world plunged for the third year running in 2002.
Japan 31 11.6 3.3
After a strong start, the US economy cooled off as the stimulus of Asia Pacific 19 7.0 10.0
interest rate cuts failed to counterbalance negative factors. When Latin America 13 4.9 (6.0)
in November the Federal Reserve cut the US interest rate to Middle East, Africa 7 2.6 15.3
1.25 per cent, it reached its lowest level in more than 40 years. Canada 5 1.9 15.1
Total 268 100.0 10.6
The European economy fared no better, with most countries
experiencing little or no growth. Germany was particularly badly
affected, suffering both a stagnant economy and a rise in The US market remained buoyant and now represents 47 per cent
unemployment to 9.9 per cent. The European Central Bank of the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared to
responded with a 0.5 per cent cut in interest rates to 2.75 per cent 31 per cent a decade ago.
in December.
GlaxoSmithKline holds second position in the world pharmaceutical
The Japanese stock market outperformed all other major stock market with a market share of 7.25 per cent, behind Pfizer with a
markets in the first half of 2002, but then fell, ending 2002 at a market share of 7.35 per cent.
20-year low.
GlaxoSmithKline has eight products in the world’s Top 50 products;
The outlook for 2003 may be summarised as uncertain. Whilst there these are Augmentin, Avandia, Flixotide,Imigran, Seretide/Advair,
have never been four consecutive years of declines in the majority Seroxat/Paxil, Wellbutrinand Zofran.
of western stock markets, and most market commentators are
anticipating a reasonable level of economic growth in 2003, this is World market – Value % of Growth
top five therapeutic classes £bn total £%
most likely to occur in the second half of the year after a sluggish
Cardiovascular 46 17.2 9.8
start. The $600 billion economic package designed to boost the US
Central nervous system 43 15.9 13.8
economy announced by President Bush in January 2003 will
Alimentary tract and metabolic 35 13.2 8.9
hopefully accelerate this. However, there are a number of risks to
Anti-infectives (bacterial,
the timing of economic recovery.
viral and fungal) excluding vaccines 30 11.2 6.0
Respiratory 21 7.7 12.0
Exchange
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US (Note: Data based on 12 months to 30th September 2002.)
Dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
Pharmaceutical sales
£/Euro £/US$ £/JPY Jun 96 = 100
Total pharmaceutical sales in 2002 were £17,995 million compared
to £17,205 million in 2001, an increase of eight per cent. Less than
150
one per cent of this overall growth came from price increases.
Growth in sterling terms of five per cent was significantly impacted
by the weakness of the US dollar and other currencies.
Within the Group’s portfolio, sales of new products, those launched
in a major market within the last five years, accounted for
100 27 per cent of total sales and grew by 36 per cent to
£4,785 million. Sales of the more established, franchise products
amounted to £9,772 million representing 54 per cent of total sales
and grew six per cent compared to last year. Sales of older
products, now less actively promoted, were £3,438 million, a
decline of 11 per cent, representing 19 per cent of total sales.
The pound hit its highest level against the dollar for more than
two-and-a-half years, climbing above $1.61 and the Euro gained Global pharmaceutical sales in the fourth quarter of 2002 grew
17.7 per cent against the dollar in 2002, the first year that the sevenper cent, (twoper cent in sterling terms) reflecting US sales
dollar has fallen in value against the euro, as investors weighed up growth of 14 per cent to £2,592 million; whereas in Europe sales
the impact of possible war in Iraq, tensions with North Korea and growth was weaker at one per cent with sales of £1,272 million,
fears for the US economy. and in International sales were flat at £935 million.
69
nuJ
69
ceD
79
nuJ
79
ceD
89
nuJ
89
ceD
99
nuJ
99
ceD
00
nuJ
00
ceD
10
nuJ
10
ceD
20
nuJ
20
ceD54 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
US sales growth benefited in the quarter from increases in Anti-virals
wholesaler stocks on some products to more normal operating HIV medicines grew across all regions and totalled £1.5 billion in
levels, and a year end review of customer discount and rebate sales, up 13 per cent. Sales of Trizivir, GlaxoSmithKline’s new triple
provisions. As a result, underlying growth for the quarter excluding combination therapy, grew 95 per cent to £315 million.
these items was estimated by management to be in the high single
Valtrex,for herpes, continued to benefit from its convenient
digit range, in spite of generic competition for Augmentin.
once-daily dosing for suppressive therapy and achieved strong
sales growth of 26 per cent worldwide and 35 per cent in the
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area
USA. In October 2002, GlaxoSmithKline filed an sNDAfor Valtrex
Across the Group’s portfolio of products, six major therapeutic areas seeking the first-ever indication to reduce the risk of transmission
experienced double-digit percentage growth for the year, including of genital herpes. In December 2002, GlaxoSmithKline filed an
the fast growing franchises: CNS (£4.5 billion) up 17 per cent; NDAfor ‘908’, a protease inhibitor, for the treatment of HIV. The
respiratory (£4.0 billion) up 16 per cent; anti-virals (£2.3 billion) up decline in Zoviraxsales reflected transfers to the newer Valtrex
12 per cent, and vaccines (£1.1 billion) up 16 per cent. and generic competition.
Central nervous system Anti-bacterials
Sales of Seroxat/Paxil, GlaxoSmithKline’s leading product for Anti-bacterial sales declined 12 per cent worldwide and 22 per cent
depression and anxiety disorders, was the driver of growth in the in the USA. Augmentin’sUSsales were down 20 per cent in the
CNS therapy area, with sales of £2 billion, up 15 per cent globally year as a result of generic competition that began in the third
and 18 per cent in the USA. International sales of Paxilgrew quarter. Four generic versions of Augmentinhave been introduced
27 per cent to £267 million led by continued strong growth in in the USA following a decision by the USDistrict Court for
Japan, where the product was launched only two years ago. Eastern Virginia that held invalid GlaxoSmithKline’s patents on
Launched in April 2002, Paxil CRcontinues to gain acceptance Augmentinexpiring in 2002, 2017 and 2018. A hearing on
due to its strong tolerability profile, and it now represents over GlaxoSmithKline’s appeal of the court’s decisions has been
30 per cent of all new US prescriptions for Paxilin just 10 months. scheduled for 5th March 2003. US sales of Ceftindeclined
80 per cent, due to generic competition which began during
Sales of Wellbutrin, for depression, grew 42 per cent to
the first quarter, 2002.
£882 million, reflecting increased physician awareness of the
product’s outstanding efficacy and favourable side effect profile. In the USA, GlaxoSmithKline’s two new antibiotics, Augmentin ES
In 2002, an application for approval of a once-daily formulation, for children, and Augmentin XRfor adults, are performing well.
Wellbutrin XL, was submitted to the FDA. The ESformulation, launched in the fourth quarter of 2001, now
represents 49 per cent of all branded and generic Augmentin
GlaxoSmithKline’s medicine for epilepsy, Lamictal, continued to
paediatric prescriptions. Based on recent weekly data, the XR
grow across all regions achieving sales of £438 million, up
formulation, launched in October, now represents 14 per cent of
27 per cent. In 2002, the Group filed an sNDAfor Lamictalseeking
all branded and generic Augmentinadult prescriptions.
the first-ever indication for long-term management of depressive
episodes in bipolar disorder. In January 2003, the FDA approved
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
the use of Lamictalfor the treatment of partial seizures in
Worldwide sales for the metabolic and gastro-intestinal category
paediatric patients aged two years and above.
were £1.4 billion, up one per cent. The Avandiafranchise
(Avandiaand Avandamet) grew 19 per cent for the year with US
Respiratory
sales up 15 per cent to £688 million.
GlaxoSmithKline continues to be the global leader in respiratory
pharmaceuticals with sales of its three key products - Avandamet, a combination of Avandiaand metformin HCI,
Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Flovent and Serevent- amounting to expanded the Avandiametabolic franchise with its US launch in
nearly £3 billion, up 25 per cent. the fourth quarter. Avandametfor the treatment of type 2
diabetes is the first medicine that targets insulin resistance and
Sales of Seretide/Advair, GlaxoSmithKline’s second largest product,
decreases glucose production in one convenient pill. Since its
grew 96 per cent to £1.6 billion although this contributed to
approval by the FDA in May 1999, Avandiahas been used by over
declines in Sereventand Flixotide, its constituent products. Advair
four million patients worldwide.
is now the US asthma market leader in new prescriptions after less
than two years on the market. Seretidealso continued to perform Zantacsales were £382 million (down 21 per cent) with declines
strongly in Europe (up 36 per cent) and International markets in most markets.
(up 92 per cent). In January 2003, GlaxoSmithKline received a
positive opinion from the European Committee for Proprietary Vaccines
Medicinal Products (CPMP) for the use of Seretideas a new Sales of vaccines grew 16 per cent to over £1 billion, supported
treatment for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). The by the Hepatitis franchise, up 12 per cent to £483 million, with
Group expects European marketing authorisation within the next total sales in Europe growing 17 per cent. US sales grew
few months followed by launches across Europe during the first 16 per cent from the launch of Twinrixand continued growth in
half of 2003. In December 2002, GlaxoSmithKline filed an NDA for Havrix, driven by new state mandates requiring Hepatitis A
Ariflofor COPD. vaccination of school age children. Infanrix(GlaxoSmithKline’s
DTPa range of combination vaccines) grew eight per cent to
The older respiratory products Ventolinand Becotidecontinued to
£254 million. Priorix and Tritanrixgrew 29 per cent and 54 per cent
decline as patients converted to newer products.
respectively. In the USA, GlaxoSmithKline’s new Pediarixvaccine
was launched in January 2003. Pediarixadds protection against
hepatitis B and poliomyelitis to the Infanrixcombination, and
results in up to six fewer injections for infants.Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 55
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area 2002
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2002 2001 % CER* 2002 % CER 2002 % CER 2002 % CER
major products total 0 500 1,0001,50020002,5003,0003,5004,000 £m £m growth £m growth £m growth £m growth
CNS 25 4,511 4,007 17 3,305 21 770 (2) 436 19
Depression 2,937 2,504 22 2,275 26 375 (2) 287 26
Seroxat/Paxil 2,055 1,857 15 1,413 18 375 (2) 267 27
Wellbutrin 882 647 42 862 43 - - 20 19
Migraine 888 849 8 670 11 161 (3) 57 12
Imigran/Imitrex 798 758 9 616 12 133 (3) 49 11
Naramig/Amerge 90 91 1 54 2 28 (3) 8 17
Lamictal 438 355 27 247 44 151 7 40 18
Requip 89 75 21 47 39 38 4 4 23
Zyban 99 129 (21) 47 (10) 27 (36) 25 (20)
Respiratory 22 3,987 3,537 16 2,023 28 1,341 4 623 10
Flixotide/Flovent,
Serevent, Seretide/Advair 2,937 2,410 25 1,557 38 1,018 8 362 27
Seretide/Advair 1,631 850 96 876 >100 608 36 147 92
Flixotide/Flovent 783 915 (12) 387 (14) 219 (18) 177 3
Serevent 523 645 (17) 294 (20) 191 (15) 38 4
Flixonase/Flonase 534 504 10 413 15 52 (6) 69 (1)
Ventolin 265 306 (10) 8 (73) 133 (2) 124 (4)
Becotide 130 161 (18) – – 105 (15) 25 (30)
Anti-virals 13 2,299 2,128 12 1,213 18 636 7 450 6
HIV 1,465 1,347 13 857 12 462 13 146 16
Trizivir 315 167 95 200 82 103 >100 12 >100
Combivir 588 606 1 338 (2) 186 1 64 10
Epivir 295 302 1 164 6 94 (2) 37 (11)
Retrovir 50 55 (6) 23 (2) 17 (15) 10 2
Ziagen 173 167 10 101 7 53 2 19 51
Agenerase 44 50 (8) 31 (15) 9 12 4 16
Herpes 653 646 5 309 26 140 (12) 204 (7)
Valtrex 425 350 26 275 35 73 4 77 20
Zovirax 228 296 (19) 34 (17) 67 (24) 127 (18)
Zeffix 123 103 23 12 69 16 34 95 18
Anti-bacterials 12 2,210 2,604 (12) 975 (22) 696 (2) 539 (4)
Augmentin 1,191 1,421 (14) 704 (20) 315 (3) 172 (3)
Zinnat/Ceftin 243 409 (39) 34 (80) 117 (5) 92 (8)
Fortum 201 209 (1) 37 (6) 96 4 68 (5)
Amoxil 136 149 (5) 32 9 45 (12) 59 (7)
Metabolic and
gastro-intestinal 8 1,429 1,480 1 784 12 241 (20) 404 (4)
Avandia 809 707 19 688 15 42 31 79 65
Zantac 382 505 (21) 86 (16) 116 (30) 180 (18)
Vaccines 6 1,080 948 16 290 16 468 17 322 15
Hepatitis 483 445 12 211 18 204 10 68 2
Infanrix 254 238 8 79 14 117 – 58 18
Oncology and emesis 5 977 838 21 740 26 152 5 85 8
Zofran 708 601 22 525 28 117 7 66 8
Hycamtin 94 90 7 63 10 24 3 7 (2)
Cardiovascular 4 655 591 14 430 16 147 7 78 16
Coreg 306 251 27 295 27 – – 11 27
Arthritis (Relafen) 1 23 156 (84) 8 (93) 6 (38) 9 (21)
Other 4 824 916 (5) 29 (49) 244 5 551 (5)
Total sales 100 17,99517,205 8 9,797 13 4,701 2 3,497 4
* CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates. An analysis of sales by quarter is given in the Financial record (pages 144 to 147).56 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Cardiovascular and urogenital Europe
In 2002, Coregsales grew 27 per cent to £306 million, benefiting Europe region contributed 26 per cent of pharmaceutical sales.
throughout the year from its new indication for the treatment of Although overall sales growth in the region was only two per cent,
severe heart failure. good growth was recorded in several markets including Spain and
Central and Eastern Europe, but government healthcare reforms,
In November 2002, Levitra(vardenafil) a new agent for the
including pricing and reimbursement restrictions, adversely affected
treatment of erectile dysfunction, received a positive opinion from
sales in Italy. Seretide, GlaxoSmithKline’s largest selling product in
the European CPMP. The first launch in Europe is planned for
Europe, reported notable growth in France, Germany, Spain and
March 2003. The FDA issued an approvable letter for Levitrain
the UK, although this was partly offset by expected declines in
2002 and launch is expected in the USA in 2003. Levitrawas
Sereventand Flixotide. Trizivir showed strong growth in all of the
researched and developed by Bayer AGand will be co-promoted
major markets in the region. The decline in sales of the Herpes
with GlaxoSmithKline.
franchise was mainly as a result of generic competition forZovirax
In January 2003, GlaxoSmithKline launched Avodart(dutasteride), and patients switching to the newer Valtrexproduct.
a DHTinhibitor, for the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic
hyperplasia (BPH), in the USA. GlaxoSmithKline plans to market International
Avodartin all major European countries with launches in the first A four per cent sales growth in the International region reflected
half of 2003. Also in January 2003, the Cardiovascular and Renal a mixture of good growth in the Middle East and Africa, Canada
Drugs Advisory Committee of the FDA unanimously supported the and Asia Pacific and a decline of seven per cent in sales in Latin
use of Coregin patients who have had a heart attack and who America, principally because of poor economic conditions in
have left ventricular dysfunction. The recommendation was based Mexico and Brazil. In addition, Mexico suffered from a
on data that showed early long-term treatment of these patients re-alignment of wholesaler stock levels.
with Coregcould reduce the risk of death by 23 per cent.
Overall International growth was driven by Seretide, Seroxat/Paxil,
Avandiaand vaccines, partly offset by declines in Zantac and
Oncology and emesis
Zovirax.
Sales of Zofrangrew 22 per cent to £708 million, driven by a
strong US performance, up 28 per cent to £525 million. The Asia Pacific area grew due to the performance of Seretide,
and vaccines. Strong growth in a number of markets was partly
Other therapeutic areas offset by lower growth of three per cent in the largest market,
Sales of Relafenfor arthritis fell reflecting generic competition in Australia, reflecting reduced sales of Zyban and Zantac.
the USA.
Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area 2002
Regional analysis Region/ % of 2002 2001 % CER*
major markets total 0 3,000 6,000 9,000 £m £m growth
USA
USA 54 9,797 9,037 13
The USA reported 13 per cent sales growth in the year and this
Europe 26 4,701 4,561 2
business currently represents 54 per cent of total pharmaceutical
France 867 823 4
sales. Sales growth in the central nervous system products of UK 782 791 (1)
21per cent was driven by Wellbutrin, reflecting increased Italy 564 627 (11)
prescribing by primary care physicians and psychiatrists, and Paxil Germany 549 519 4
Spain 478 440 7
following the launch of the CRformulation in April 2002. Lamictal,
Central & 401 350 16
indicated for epilepsy, recorded sales growth of 44per cent. Eastern Europe
Advairmaintained its strong growth with sales of £876 million Other Europe 1,060 1,011 3
driving the overall respiratory sales growth of 28 per cent. However
International 20 3,497 3,607 4
this adversely affected sales of its constituent products, Flovent
Asia Pacific 1,177 1,119 8
and Serevent, which both showed declines.Flonase indicated for Japan 712 741 3
the treatment of perennial rhinitis grew strongly by 15per cent. Latin America 606 790 (7)
Middle East, Africa 575 539 11
Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew 18 per cent led by a Canada 427 418 9
strong performance of Trizivir, up 82 per cent, which partially drew
100 17,995 17,205 8
sales from its constituent products, and Valtrex, up 35 per cent.
*CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling growth can be calculated
Sales of Avandiaincreased by 15 per cent, benefiting from the from the figures given above. An analysis of sales by quarter is given in the Financial record
(pages 144 to 147). Sales by market within Europe are adjusted for the effects of parallel
launch of Avandamet in November 2002, but the continued decline
trade (cross-border imports from low-priced markets).
in Zantacsales held the metabolic and gastro-intestinal category
The market growth in Japan reflected strong growth of Paxiland
growth to 12 per cent. Anti-bacterial sales declined as Augmentin
Flixotide/Floventpartly offset by the decline of the older product
started to experience generic competition in the second half of the
Zantac, and government price reductions.
year. In the cardiovascular franchise, Coreg sales increased to
£295 million reflecting improved market share. The Middle East and Africa area followed the trends of most other
markets with growth in Seretide, Avandia, vaccines and HIV.
Vaccines grew 57 per cent and the respiratory franchise
18 per cent.
In Canada growth was driven by Seretide, Paxil, Avandiaand
Anti-virals partly offset by lower sales of anti-bacterials.Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 57
Consumer Healthcare sales Cost of sales
2002 2001 Cost of sales reduced as a percentage of sales as a result of benefits
£m £m CER%
arising from merger and manufacturing restructuring savings,
OTC medicines 1,586 1,603 4
movements in stock provisions and a favourable regional mix.
Analgesics 320 335 1
Dermatological 188 190 5
Selling, general and administration
Gastro-intestinal 312 342 (1)
Selling, general and administration costs benefited from cost savings
Respiratory tract 161 164 2
arising from merger integration implementation and other initiatives.
Smoking control 378 337 16
Together these produced a reduction of 0.9 percentage points
Natural wellness support 162 158 5
relative to 2001 for the expenses expressed as a percentage of sales.
Oral care 1,052 1,106 (2)
Nutritional healthcare 579 575 3
Research and development
Total Consumer Healthcare sales 3,217 3,284 2 Research and development (R&D) increased nine per cent reflecting
increased clinical trial and in-licensing activity and the reinvestment
The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of two per cent to of merger synergies. Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure represented
£3,217 million was due to an OTC medicines sales increase of 14.6 per cent of pharmaceutical sales in the year.
four per cent and a Nutritional Healthcare increase of three per cent
partly offset by a decline in Oral care sales of two per cent. Trading profit
Business performance trading profit was £6,694 million with a
OTC medicines growth of 15 per cent, stronger than sales growth of seven per cent,
Smoking control sales growth was driven by the performance of demonstrating an improved trading margin of 2.1 points to
Nicoderm/Niquitin/Nicabate. In the USA Nicodermgrew strongly 31.6 per cent compared with 2001. This was principally due to
despite competition from private label and the launch of competitor cost savings derived from merger integration, manufacturing and
patches. The NiQuitin Lozenge, Commit, was launched in the USA, other initiatives.
in November. Clinical studies show that Commitcan help smokers
who have tried to quit before. In analgesics Panadolrecorded good Profit before taxation - business performance
sales growth of five per cent, partly offset by declines in a number
of other brands. Abreva in the USA and Zoviraxin Europe, both for The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates
the treatment of cold sores, drove dermatological sales growth of to business performance.
five per cent. In gastro-intestinal, sales of Citrucel rose by 19 per cent
but this was offset by declines in Tumsand Tagamet. 2002 2001
Other operating income/(expense) £m £m
Oral care Royalties and other income 75 34
Oral care sales grew marginally in Europe but declined in the highly Other operating expense (209) (126)
competitive US market. Overall Oral care sales declined two per cent, (134) (92)
principally as a result of reduced Aquafresh sales; although an Income from equity investments and
increase in Sensodynesales partially offset this. other disposals 23 129
(111) 37
Nutritional healthcare
In Nutritional healthcare Lucozade and Ribenareported strong Other operating income/(expense) includes litigation costs, costs
growth in Europe, driven by increased availability and promotion. associated with product liability claims and other costs in respect of
Horlickssales declined primarily in International markets. product withdrawals, equity investment write-downs due to adverse
stock market conditions, royalty income, product disposals and equity
Trading profit – business performance investment sales.
To illustrate GlaxoSmithKline business performance in 2002, the Other operating expenses were £111 million in the year compared
analysis below of trading profit and the subsequent discussion with £37 million income in 2001. The year on year movement
excludes merger items, integration and restructuring costs and the reflects higher provisions in 2002 for product liability and other
disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of these claims, and lower 2002 proceeds from disposals and equity
non-recurring items provides a better comparison of business investment sales.
performance for the periods presented. Accordingly this information
is provided as a supplement to that contained in the consolidated Profit on disposal of interest in associate
statement of profit and loss on pages 76 and 77 prepared in There were no disposals of interest in associates in 2002. In 2001
accordance with UKGAAP. the Group sold 1.5 million shares in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. realising
2002 2001 a gain of £96 million.
£m % £m % CER%
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
Sales 21,212 100.0 20,489 100.0 7
undertakings
Cost of sales (4,243) (20.0) (4,430) (21.6) (2)
The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s
Selling, general
holding inQuest Diagnostics, Inc.
and administration (7,543) (35.5) (7,451) (36.4) 5
Research and
development (2,732) (12.9) (2,555) (12.5) 9
Trading profit 6,694 31.6 6,053 29.5 1558 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2002 2001 Taxation 2001
Net interest payable £m £m 2002 (restated)
£m £m
Interest payable (206) (198)
Business performance (1,760) (1,655)
Investment income 73 129
Merger, restructuring and disposal
(133) (69)
of subsidiaries 299 322
Share of interest payable of associate (8) (19)
(1,461) (1,333)
(141) (88)
Net interest payable increased compared with 2001 largely as a Business performance taxation
result of a higher average level of net debt driven by the use of cash The charge for taxation on business performance profit of
to fund the Group’s share buy-back programme. The benefit of a £1,760 million represents an effective tax rate of 27.0 per cent.
smaller number of shares in issue is reflected in earnings per share. This represents an increase compared with the effective rate for
2001 which was 26.8 per cent, as restated for the implementation
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation of FRS19 ‘Deferred Tax’.
Other operating income/(expense), together with the disposal of
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving
part of the interest in an associate in 2001, reduced profit by
significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
£111 million in 2002, but added £133 million to profit in 2001.
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply
Taking account of the contribution from associates and net interest
routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and
payable, business performance profit before tax was £6,517 million,
delay in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on
compared with £6,169 million in 2001, an increase of 11 per cent.
which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Disagreements
with, and between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group
Merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of businesses
transactions, in particular the price at which goods should be
The key items in 2002 are discussed below. transferred between Group companies in different tax jurisdictions
can produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the
Merger and Manufacturing restructuring
profits that fall to be taxed in individual territories. Resolution of
GlaxoSmithKline has made good progress with its merger and
such issues is a continuing fact-of-life for GlaxoSmithKline.
manufacturing restructuring plans and remains on track to deliver
forecast total annual merger and manufacturing restructuring In the USA, for a number of years, GlaxoSmithKline has had
savings of £1.8 billion by 2003, excluding benefits from the Block significant open issues relating to transfer pricing. These issues
Drug acquisition. The estimated cost of achieving this remains affect all years from 1989 to the present and concern a number of
around £3.8 billion, of which £3.4 billion had been charged by products, although the most significant relates to the success of
31st December 2002. Zantac, in respect of which the claims of the US Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) substantially exceed the Group’s estimation of its
Costs of £972 million were incurred in the year in respect of merger
taxation liabilities. The IRS claims, which are not completely
and manufacturing restructuring. After tax relief of £249 million,
quantified, continue to be the subject of discussions between the
the net charge was £723 million. The costs in 2002 include
US and UK tax authorities under the competent authority provisions
severance, asset write-downs, professional fees and site closure.
of the double tax convention between the two countries.
Block Drug Company, Inc. Within these discussions there is a wide variation between the views
GlaxoSmithKline acquired Block Drug in January 2001. The costs of the US and UK tax authorities and, exceptionally, they may be
incurred in integrating this business were £60 million in 2002 unable to reach agreement to settle the dispute. In the event of the
including redundancies, asset write-downs and site closures. UK and US tax authorities not reaching agreement, the matter may
have to be resolved by litigation.
Disposal of businesses
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer
The profit on disposal of businesses in 2002 of £21 million reflects
pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing
the final settlements regarding merger related product disposals
issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external
and the disposal of the Healthcare Services businesses in 1999.
professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate
provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
Trading profit – Statutory
The Group has implemented the new Financial Reporting Standard,
2002 2001
FRS 19 ‘Deferred tax’, in 2002, which requires deferred tax to be
£m % £m % CER% £%
accounted for on a full provision basis rather than a partial provision
Sales 21,212 100 20,489 100 7 4
basis as before. For the full year 2001 the business performance tax
Cost of sales (4,609) (21.7) (4,733) (23.1) – (3) charge is increased by £8 million, and the overall tax charge by
Selling, general £6 million. The net deferred tax asset at 31st December 2001 has
and administration (8,041) (37.9) (8,408) (41.1) (1) (4) been reduced by £127 million.
Research and
development (2,900) (13.7) (2,651) (12.9) 12 9 Merger and restructuring
Trading profit 5,662 26.7 4,697 22.9 26 21 The credit for taxation on merger and restructuring items
amounting to £299 million reflects the estimated actual tax rate
Statutory results, which include merger items, integration and applicable to the transactions in the territories in which they arise.
restructuring costs, and the disposal of subsidiaries delivered
trading profit of £5,662 million on sales of £21,212 million.Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 59
Earnings 2001 Legal and other disputes
2002 (restated) CER% £% GlaxoSmithKline provides for anticipated settlement costs and
Earnings (£m) 3,915 3,053 35 28 associated expenses arising from asserted claims against the Group
Basic earnings per share 66.2p 50.3p 38 32 where a reasonable estimate may be made of the likely outcome
Basic earnings per ADS $1.99 $1.45 38 32 of the dispute. The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice,
have established provisions after taking into account insurance and
Adjusted earnings (£m) 4,627 4,383 11 6
other agreements and having regard to the relevant facts and
Adjusted earnings per share 78.3p 72.3p 13 8
circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting
Adjusted earnings per ADS $2.35 $2.08 13 8
requirements. No provisions have been made for unasserted claims
Weighted average number or for claims for which no reasonable estimate of the likely
of shares (millions) 5,912 6,064 outcome can yet be made. The ultimate liability for pending and
unasserted claims may vary from the amounts provided and is
Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share are presented dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings,
above in order to illustrate business performance which is the investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
primary measure used by management. Adjusted earnings increased
by 11 per cent. Adjusted earnings per share increased 13 per cent Intangible assets
reflecting the reduction in the weighted average number of shares Where intangible assets are acquired by GlaxoSmithKline from
resulting from the Group’s share buy-back programme. The interest third parties the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to
cost of this programme also impacts the Group’s earnings. compounds in development are amortised over their estimated
At actual rates of exchange business performance EPS increased useful lives, but not exceeding 15 years. Estimated useful lives are
eight per cent in sterling terms, compared with 13 per cent in CER reviewed annually and impairment reviews are undertaken if
terms. The adverse currency impact on EPS of five per cent in the events occur which call into question the carrying values of the
year reflected the significant weakening of the US dollar relative to assets. Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised
2001 and compares with a three per cent adverse currency impact independently where they are separable and have a long-term
on sales. This difference principally arises from a different mix of value to the Group. Brands are amortised over their estimated
currencies in profits compared with sales. useful lives, not exceeding 20 years, except where the end of the
useful economic life cannot be foreseen. Where brands are not
Taken together with other expenses, taxation and product amortised, they are subject to annual impairment reviews. Future
divestments this resulted in EPS of 66.2 pence compared with events could cause the values of these intangible assets to be
50.3 pence in 2001 and a diluted EPS of 66.0 pence compared impaired and this would have an adverse effect on the future
with 49.9 pence in 2001. Merger and manufacturing restructuring results of the Group.
costs were lower in 2002 than in 2001 and as a result, the sterling
based growth in EPS of 32 per cent was significantly higher than Impairment of fixed assets
the CER based growth in business performance EPS despite the The carrying values of fixed assets subject to depreciation and
overall negative impact of currencies in 2002. amortisation are reviewed for impairment when there is an
indication that the values of the assets might be impaired.
Dividend Impairment is determined by reference to the higher of net
The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 13 pence per realisable value and value in use, measured by reference to
share making a total for the year of 40 pence per share. This discounted cash flows. Future events could cause the assumptions
compares with a dividend of 39 pence per share for 2001. used in these impairment reviews to change with a consequent
adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
Critical accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance Investment in own shares
with UKgenerally accepted accounting principles, following the GlaxoSmithKline has invested in its own shares through Employee
accounting policies approved by the Board and described in Note 2 Share Ownership Trusts in order to meet obligations arising from
to the Financial statements, ‘Accounting policies’. Management is certain of the company’s employee share option schemes. These
required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the shares are held at cost, less a provision to recognise any shortfall
amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the in the proceeds receivable from the employee on exercise, unless
financial statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from management believes there to be a permanent impairment in their
those estimates. The following are considered to be the critical value in relation to the period of time over which the related share
accounting policies adopted. options may be exercised. Any impairment would have an adverse
effect on the results of the Group in that accounting period.
Sales
Gross sales are reduced by discounts and allowances which vary Pensions and post-retirement benefits
by product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits
with purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission are charged to the profit and loss account in accordance with
of claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale. A SSAP24 over the period during which benefit is derived from the
provision is made at the time of sale for the estimated discount or employee’s services. The costs are assessed in accordance with
allowance payable. These amounts are subject to change dependent advice received from independent actuaries on the basis of
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product assumptions selected by management as disclosed in Note 33 to
sales mix. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the Financial statements, ‘Employee costs’. This Note also gives the
the discounts are based to change, which could affect the future additional disclosures required by FRS17 ‘Retirement Benefits’.
results of the Group. The selection of different assumptions could affect the future
results of the Group.60 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial position and resources
Financial position Net debt
Group net debt at 31st December comprised:
A summarised, re-classified presentation of the Group balance
2002 2001
sheet is set out below:
£m £m
2001 Cash and liquid investments 2,308 2,131
2002 (restated)
£m £m Borrowings – repayable within one year (1,551) (2,124)
Borrowings – repayable after one year (3,092) (2,108)
Goodwill 171 174
Intangible fixed assets 1,637 1,673 Net debt (2,335) (2,101)
Tangible fixed assets 6,649 6,845
Net debt increased in 2002 to £2,335 million primarily due to the
Investments 456 477
use of cash to fund the purchase of shares by the company for
Working capital 4,880 4,958
cancellation totalling £2,220 million and the special cash
Other debtors and creditors (2,695) (2,708)
contributions of £320 million into the Group’s pension funds.
Provisions (2,091) (1,810)
Taxation (1,449) (1,672)
Pensions
Deferred taxation 631 744
The Group continues to account for pension arrangements in
Net operating assets 8,189 8,681
accordance with SSAP 24. Under the transitional provisions of FRS 17
Own shares 2,826 2,936
the disclosed pension assets and liabilities of the Group at
Dividends payable (1,292) (1,264)
31st December 2002 show a net deficit of £1,262 million after
Net debt (2,335) (2,101)
allowing for deferred taxation (2001 – £457 million). In the fourth
Net assets 7,388 8,252 quarter of 2002 special cash contributions of £320 million were
made to reduce the funding deficit.
Shareholders’ funds 6,581 7,390
Minority interests 807 862 The company will review this position annually and will make further
contributions as appropriate. Pension service costs will be higher in
Financing of net assets 7,388 8,252
2003 by more than £100 million and this has been taken account
of in the earnings guidance.
Investments
GlaxoSmithKline had investments at 31st December 2002 with
Shareholders’ funds
a carrying value of £456 million (2001 – £477 million). The market
A summary of the movements in equity shareholders’ funds is set
value at 31st December 2002 was £1,220 million (2001 – £1,819
out below.
million). The investments, which include associates and joint 2001
ventures, are mainly in equity shares where the holding derives 2002 (restated)
£m £m
directly from the Group’s business, including in connection with a
At beginning of year as previously reported 7,517 7,711
research collaboration, as access to biotechnology developments
Prior year adjustment -
of potential interest, or arising from a business divestment.
implementation of FRS 19 (127) (121)
Own shares At beginning of year as restated 7,390 7,590
At 31st December 2002 the ESOTs held 181.3 million Profit for the year 3,915 3,053
GlaxoSmithKline shares, at a carrying value of £2,826 million and Dividends (2,346) (2,356)
market value of £2,161 million, against the future exercise of share Shares issued on exercise of share options 56 144
options and share awards. This valuation shortfall is not considered Shares purchased and cancelled (2,220) (1,274)
to represent a permanent diminution in value in the context of the Exchange movements (154) (123)
length of the future period over which the related share options Goodwill written back – 356
may be exercised. Accordingly no provision has been made. UKtax on exchange movements (67) –
Unrealised gain on equity investment 7 –
Other debtors and creditors At end of year 6,581 7,390
Net other creditors remained in line with 2001 as an increase in
prepaid pension contributions offset increased accruals for Equity shareholders’ funds decreased from £7,390 million at
sales-related rebates and returns. 31st December 2001 to £6,581 million at 31st December 2002.
The decrease arises from the value of shares purchased and
Provisions cancelled and exchange movements on overseas net assets
The Group carried provisions of £2,833 million at 31st December exceeding retained profits.
2002 in respect of estimated future liabilities, of which some
£921million related to pensions and other post-retirement Commitments and contingent liabilities
benefits for employees. Provision has been made for tax, legal and Financial commitments are summarised in Note 26 to the Financial
other disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities and the costs of statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
manufacturing restructuring and merger integration to the extent obligations in respect of short and long term debt are set out in
that at the balance sheet date an actual or constructive obligation Note 24, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and Note 25 to the Financial
existed. In the case of merger integration and manufacturing statements, ‘Net debt’.
restructuring the majority of the remaining costs are expected to
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits,
be recognised by the end of 2003.
restructuring and integration plans and legal, environmental and
other disputes are set out in Note 23 to the Financial statements,
‘Provisions for liabilities and charges’.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 61
Contractual obligations and commitments Cash flow
The following table sets out the Group’s contractual obligations
A summary of Group cash flow is set out below:
and commitments as they fall due for payment.
2002 2001
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ £m £m
£m £m £m £m £m
Total operating cash flow 7,255 6,507
Loans 4,630 1,550 983 311 1,786 Dividends from associates 2 –
Finance lease obligations 13 1 3 2 7 Net interest, minority and
Operating lease preference share dividends (237) (191)
commitments 702 168 177 108 249 Tax payments (1,633) (1,717)
Intangible fixed assets 1,410 214 282 262 652
Free cash flow 5,387 4,599
Tangible fixed assets 382 325 54 3 –
Net capital expenditure (1,167) (1,240)
Other commitments 162 63 75 20 4
Net cash from operations 4,220 3,359
Total 7,299 2,321 1,574 706 2,698
Dividends on shares (2,327) (2,325)
Business acquisitions (25) (747)
Intangible fixed asset commitments made in 2002 under licensing
Business disposals 6 66
and other agreements, were principally with elbion AG, Adolor
Sale less purchase of equity investments (10) 92
Corporation, Theravance, Inc and Unigene Laboratories, Inc.
Sale less purchase of interest in associates (5) 80
Payments become due if future ‘milestones’ are achieved. As
Purchase of own shares for share options – (795)
some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
Use of own shares on exercise of share options 58 194
stages of development, milestone payments will continue for a
Shares issued on exercise of share options 56 144
number of years if the compounds move successfully through the
Purchase of shares for cancellation (2,220) (1,274)
development process. Generally the closer the product is to
Redemption of preference shares issued
marketing approval the greater the possibility of success. The
by a subsidiary – (457)
payments shown above represent the maximum that would be
Product divestments (1) (30)
paid if all milestones are achieved.
Other movements including exchange 14 203
Pension commitments are provided in Note 33 to the Financial
Increase in net debt (234) (1,490)
statements, ‘Employee costs’.
The net cash inflow from total operating activities was
Contingent liabilities £7,255 million, an increase of £748 million over 2001.
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
discounted bills, performance guarantees and other items arising After merger and restructuring items of £669 million, net interest
in the normal course of business and when they are expected to payments, minority and preference share dividends and tax
expire. payments, free cash flow, representing cash flow before
discretionary spending, amounted to £5,387 million, an increase
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ of £788 million over 2001.
£m £m £m £m £m
Capital expenditure on tangible and intangible fixed assets
Guarantees 118 80 – 11 27
amounted to £1,226 million in 2002 (2001 – £1,311 million).
Other contingent liabilities 20 2 11 3 4
Disposals realised £59 million (2001 – £71 million).
Total 138 82 11 14 31
A total of £15 million (2001 – £172 million realised) was spent on
purchases, less sales, of investments in equity shares.
In the normal course of business the Group has provided various
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in Group purchases of its own shares in the market for cancellation
which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A amounted to £2,220 million of which £219 million relates to the
provision is made where a reasonable estimate can be made of new buy-back programme.
the likely outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 23
No shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc were purchased by the ESOTs to
to the Financial statements, ‘Provisions for liabilities and charges’.
satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee
It is the Group’s policy to provide for the settlement costs of share incentive schemes (2001 – £795 million). Atotal of
asserted claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable £114 million (2001 – £338 million) was received on employees’
estimate may be made. Prior to this point no liability is recorded. exercise of share options: exercises satisfied from shares previously
Legal and environmental costs are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ on purchased by the ESOTs yielded £58 million (2001 – £194 million);
pages 64 and 65. exercises satisfied from the issue of new shares yielded £56 million
(2001 – £144 million).
The effect of transfer pricing issues on taxation are inevitable for
a global business such as GlaxoSmithKline. The Group has had
Future cash flow
significant open issues relating to transfer pricing for a number
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be
of years. On the basis of external professional advice, provision
sufficient to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy
is made for those liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
normal levels of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under
This is discussed further in Note 12 to the Financial statements,
existing licensing agreements and to meet other routine
‘Taxation’.
commitments including tax and dividends, subject to the risk
factors discussed on pages 64 and 65.62 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
In 2003 and subsequent years the Group expects further cash Liquidity
outflows from integrating the operations of Glaxo Wellcome and The Group operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies
SmithKline Beecham into a unified GlaxoSmithKline business, as established in the markets in which the Group trades. Due to the
well as further cash outflows from the continued implementation nature of the Group’s business, with patent protection on many
of manufacturing restructuring plans. ofthe products in the Group’s portfolio, the Group’s products
compete largely on product efficacy rather than on price. Selling
In October 2002, GlaxoSmithKline commenced a new £4 billion
margins are sufficient to cover normal operating costs and the
share buy-back programme. This followed the completion of the
Group’s operating subsidiaries are substantially cash generative.
£4 billion buy-back programme announced in 2001. The exact
amount and timing of future purchases will be determined by the Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the research
company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors. and development of new products as well as routine outflows of
In the period 1st January 2003 to 3rd March 2003 a further capital expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing
9,350,000 shares had been purchased and cancelled at a cost of debt. The Group will, from time to time, have additional demands
£105 million. for finance, such as for share purchases and acquisitions.
The Group may from time to time have additional demands for GlaxoSmithKline operates at low levels of net debt. In addition
finance, such as for acquisitions. The Group has access to other tothe strong positive cash flow from normal trading activities,
sources of liquidity from banks and other financial institutions, in additional liquidity is readily available via itscommercial
addition to the cash flow from operations, forsuch needs. paperprogramme. Current back-up facilities, including committed
lines of credit, support issuance under the $10 billion commercial
The book value of net assets decreased from £8,252 million at
paper programme of up to $4 billion.
31stDecember 2001 to £7,388 million at 31st December 2002,
a decrease of £864 million. This reflects the purchase and The Group also has an uncommitted Euro Medium Term Note
cancellation of shares under the share buy-back programme and programme of £5 billion, of which £1,807 million was in issue at
the effect on net assets of exchange rate movements, partly 31st December 2002, and plans to establish a similar uncommitted
offset by retained profits of £1,569 million, after providing for the borrowing programme in the USA during 2003.
2002 dividends.
Treasury operations
Payment policies The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net
cost/income of financial operations to the benefit of Group
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing
earnings. Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre.
their working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier
payments will reflect local commercial practice. GlaxoSmithKline uses a variety of financial instruments, including
derivatives, to finance its operations and to manage market risks
In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have
from those operations. Financial instruments comprise cash and
policies to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular,
liquid resources, borrowings and spot foreign exchange contracts.
the UK companies seek:
A number of derivative financial instruments are used to manage
• to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the
the market risks from Treasury operations. Derivative instruments,
terms of the transaction
principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts, interest
• to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms
rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and liquid
ofpayment
assets into the currencies required for Group purposes and to
• to abide by the terms of payment.
manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign
The policy includes arrangements for accelerated payment of exchange rates and interest rates.
small suppliers.
GlaxoSmithKline balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets
having regard to: the cash flow from operating activities and
Payment performance
thecurrencies in which it is earned; the tax cost of intra-Group
At 31st December 2002, the average number of days’ purchases
distributions; the currencies in which business assets are
represented by trade and fixed asset creditors of the company
denominated; and the post-tax cost of borrowings compared
wasnil days (2001 – nil days) and in respect of the company and
tothepost-tax return on liquid assets.
its UK subsidiaries in aggregate was 18 days (2001 – 24 days).
Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements
Treasury policies of Group companies are invested and managed centrally by
Corporate Treasury. Requirements of Group companies for
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a UK based business, reporting in sterling
operating finance are met whenever possible from central
and paying dividends out of sterling profits.
resources.
The role of Corporate Treasury in GlaxoSmithKline is to manage
External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate
and monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirements
Treasury, comprise a portfolio of long and medium-term
and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives.
instruments and short-term finance.
Treasury activities are governed by policies and procedures approved
by the Board and monitored by a Treasury Management group. GlaxoSmithKline does not hold or issue derivative financial
GlaxoSmithKline maintains treasury control systems and procedures instruments for trading purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies
to monitor foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial
other financial risks. instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from
underlying business activities, not for speculation.Operating and financial review and prospects GlaxoSmithKline 63
Funding, maturity and counterparty risk The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to
The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets primarily in redenominate external borrowings intothe interest rate coupon
Government bonds and short-term corporate debt instruments required for Group purposes. The duration of these swaps matches
with a minimum short-term credit rating of A-1/P-1 from Standard the duration of theprincipal instruments. All interest rate derivative
and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors’ Services respectively. The Group instruments are accounted for as hedges of the relevant assets or
manages its net borrowing requirement through a portfolio of liabilities.
long and medium-term borrowings, including bonds, together
The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or
with short-term finance under the US dollar commercial paper
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward
programme. In 2002, a £500 million, 4.875 per cent coupon bond
contracts to hedge future repayments back into originating
and two US dollar denominated, floating rate bonds totalling
currency.
$495 million were issued under the European Medium Term Note
programme. The Group also raised $500 million floating rate debt Sensitivity analysis considers the sensitivity of the Group’s net debt
through a private financing arrangement. to hypothetical changes in market rates and assumes that all other
variables remain constant. Based on the composition of net debt at
The Group’s medium-term borrowings mature at dates between
31st December 2002 a one percentage point (100 basis points)
2004 and 2008, the private financing matures in 2032, and the
increase or decrease in average interest rates would result in a
long-dated sterling bond matures in 2033. The private financing
negligible change in the Group’s annual interest expense.
may be redeemed by GlaxoSmithKline at any time and, in
particular, in the event of any accelerating event that would
Equity risk management
increase the cost of funding for the Group. The Group also has
Equity investments classified as current assets are available for sale
outstanding $500 million of Flexible Auction Market Preferred
and the Group manages disposals to meet overall business
Stock (Flex AMPS) and $400 million of Auction Rate Preference
requirements as they arise. The Group regularly monitors the value
Stock (ARPS), originally issued in 1996. $250 million of the Flex
of its equity investments and only enters into hedges selectively
AMPS may be redeemed by GlaxoSmithKline at any time after
with the approval of the Board.
July 2003. The remainder of the Flex AMPS and the ARPS may
be redeemed by GlaxoSmithKline at any time.
Financial assets and liabilities
GlaxoSmithKline’s long-term debt rating is AA from Standard and An analysis of net debt is given in Note 25 to the Financial
Poor’s and Aa2 from Moody’s Investors’ Services. The agencies’ statements, ‘Net debt’. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities
short-term rating for paper issued under the Group’s commercial at carrying value and fair value and a reconciliation to net debt are
paper programme is A-1+ and P-1 respectively. given inNote 32 to the Financial statements, ‘Financial instruments
and related disclosures’, together with a discussion of derivative
Foreign exchange risk management financial instruments and quantitative disclosures about market riskin
In GlaxoSmithKline, foreign currency transaction exposure arising accordance with the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard 13.
on normal trade flows both in respect of external and intra-Group
The Group continues to benefit from strong positive cash flow.
trade is not hedged. GlaxoSmithKline’s policy is to minimise the
Group net debt would have decreased significantly in the year to
exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to transaction risk
31st December 2002, except for the Group’s purchase of its own
bymatching local currency income with local currency costs.
shares in the market of £2,220 million.
Forthispurpose, intra-Group trading transactions are matched
centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed to reduce The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2002 are
risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged selectively representative of the treasury policies and strategies of
under the management of Corporate Treasury. GlaxoSmithKline, applied consistently during the year. There were
no significant changes in such policies throughout the year.
A significant proportion of Group borrowings, including the
commercial paper programme, is in US dollars, to benefit from
ESOT share purchases and shares purchased for cancellation
the liquidity of US dollar denominated capital markets. Certain of
In 2002 the ESOTs did not make any market purchases of shares in
these and other borrowings are swapped into other currencies as
GlaxoSmithKline plc (2001 – £795 million). The shares are held by
required for Group purposes. The Group seeks to denominate
the Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under
borrowings in the currencies of its principal overseas assets.
the Group share option and award schemes. A proportion of the
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
shares held by the Trusts are in respect of options where the rules
which match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a
of the scheme require the company to satisfy exercises through
hedge against the relevant net assets.
market purchases rather than the issue of new shares.
Based on the composition of net debt at 31st December 2002 a
The shares held by the Trusts are matched to options granted and
10per cent appreciation in sterling against major currencies would
diminish the dilutive effect of new share issues on shareholders'
result in a reduction in the Group’s net debt of approximately
capital and earnings.
£145 million. A10 per cent weakening in sterling against major
currencies would result in an increase in the Group’s net debt of At the 2002 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed
approximately £177 million. approval for GlaxoSmithKline to make market purchases of its own
shares. In September 2002, the £4 billion share repurchase
Interest rate risk management programme announced in October 2001 was completed. On
GlaxoSmithKline’s policy on interest rate risk management requires 23rd October 2002, GlaxoSmithKline announced a further share
that the amount of net borrowings at fixed rates increases with repurchase programme of £4 billion. The exact amount and timing
the ratio of forecast net interest payable to trading profit. of future purchases will depend on market conditions and other
factors. In 2002, GlaxoSmithKline purchased 155.7 million shares
for cancellation, at a total cost of £2,220 million.64 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Outlook and risk factors
Outlook Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions
of a number of the Group’s most important products, including
Pharmaceutical sales growth of existing products is a key driver of
Paxiland Wellbutrin, prior to the expiration of the Group’s patents,
GlaxoSmithKline’s current business performance. The Group plans
and may do so for other products in the future. Generic products
to launch 12 new products and line extensions over the next two
competitive with Augmentinwere launched in the USA in 2002
years.
and had a significant impact on the Group’s sales and earnings.
Merger and manufacturing restructuring savings in 2002 were Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges to the
estimated to be £1.6 billion. The Group is on track to deliver total validity of a patent or the assertion that the alternative compounds
annual merger and manufacturing restructuring savings, before do not infringe the Group’s patents. If the Group is not successful
R&D reinvestment, of at least £1.8 billion by the end of 2003. in maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of its major
These savings are measured against the projected levels of products, particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest
expenditure in 2003 forecast by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline margins and most sales of any country, during the patent protection
Beecham immediately prior to the merger. period, the Group’s revenues and margins would be adversely
affected. See Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal
GlaxoSmithKline is engaged in legal proceedings regarding validity
proceedings’ for a discussion of patent-related proceedings in
and infringement of the Group’s patents relating to many of its
which the Group is involved.
products in particular those relating to Augmentin, Paxil/Seroxat
and Wellbutrin. These are discussed in the risk factors below and In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent
in Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the
European Union. In addition, in an effort to control public health
As a result of these pending matters, the possible timing of generic
crises, some developing countries, such as South Africa and Brazil,
competition to Paxilin the USA is unclear. Consequently,
have recently announced plans for substantial reductions in the
GlaxoSmithKline’s published earnings guidance for 2003 remains as
scope of patent protection for pharmaceutical products. In
previously stated. The guidance is for high single digit percentage
particular, these countries could facilitate competition within their
growth in business performance earnings per share at constant
markets from generic manufacturers who would otherwise be
exchange rates assuming there is no generic competition to Paxilin
unable to introduce competing products for a number of years.
the USA. If a generic launch of paroxetine hydrochloride became
Any loss of patent protection is likely to affect adversely the
imminent, GlaxoSmithKline would reassess this guidance.
Group’s operating results.
The Group has net debt of £2.3 billion, which is low relative to its
Pharmaceutical product prices are subject to controls or pressures
market capitalisation and this positions it to take advantage of any
in many markets. Some governments intervene directly in setting
opportunities that might arise to build the business.
prices. In addition, in some markets major purchasers of
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business which pharmaceutical products (whether governmental agencies or
may affect future performance including expected earnings private healthcare providers) have the economic power to exert
growth. These are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ below. substantial pressure on prices. The Group cannot predict whether
existing controls will increase or new controls will be introduced
Risk factors that will reduce the Group’s margins or affect adversely its ability
to introduce new products profitably.
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business.
The factors listed below are those that the Group thinks could For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins
cause the Group’s actual results to differ materially from expected and most sales of any country, pricing pressures could significantly
and historical results. Other factors besides those listed here could increase if various proposals under consideration to reform
also adversely affect the Group. Medicare, or for other federal or state programmes to control the
cost of pharmaceuticals, are adopted. If the Medicare programme
The Group operates in highly competitive businesses. In the
were to provide outpatient pharmaceutical coverage for its
pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from proprietary
beneficiaries, the US government, through its enormous purchasing
products of large international manufacturers and producers of
power under the programme, could demand discounts that may
generic pharmaceuticals. Significant product innovations, technical
implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. Additionally,
advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors
a number of states have proposed or implemented various schemes
could adversely affect the Group’s operating results. Continued
to control prices for their own senior citizens’ drug programmes,
consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect
including importation from other countries and bulk purchasing
the Group’s competitive position, while continued consolidation
of drugs. The growth in the number of patients covered through
among the Group’s customers may increase pricing pressures.
large managed care institutions in the USA, which would be likely
In particular, the Group faces intense competition from to increase with Medicare reform, also increases pricing pressures
manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all of its on the Group’s products. These trends may adversely affect the
major markets. Generic products often enter the market upon Group’s revenues and margins from sales in the USA.
expiration of patents or data exclusivity periods for the Group’s
The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls
products. Introduction of generic products typically leads to a
on the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many
dramatic loss of sales and reduces the Group’s revenues and
of its pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products. In some
margins for its proprietary products. The expiration dates for
countries, including the USA and those of the European Union,
patents for the Group’s major products are set out under
regulatory controls have become increasingly demanding, increasing
‘Description of Business - Patents’ on page 23.
not only the cost of product development but also the time
required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully
doing so. The Group expects that this trend will continue and will
extend to other countries.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 65
Stricter regulatory controls also heighten the risk of withdrawal by The Group had eight products with over £700 million
regulators of an approval previously granted, which would reduce ($1.05billion) in annual global sales in 2002. Among these
revenues and can result in product recalls and product liability products are Paxil/Seroxatand Wellbutrin, with respect to
lawsuits. In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily which the Group is currently defending its intellectual property
cease marketing a product or face declining sales based on rights in the USA. If these or any of the Group’s other major
concerns about efficacy or safety, whether or not scientifically products were to become subject to a problem such as loss
justified, even in the absence of regulatory action. of patent protection, unexpected side effects, regulatory
proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence
Continued development of commercially viable new products is
or pressure from competing products, or if a new, more
critical to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that
effective treatment should be introduced, the impact on the
decline upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall
Group’s financial results could be significant.
sales. Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain
process. A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations
process, and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail outside the United Kingdom. Fluctuations in exchange rates
to receive regulatory approval. New product candidates may appear between sterling and other currencies, especially the US dollar
promising in development but, after significant investment, fail to and the Euro, materially affect the Group’s financial results.
reach the market or have only limited commercial success as a
The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology
result of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary
systems, including internet based systems, for internal
regulatory approvals, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture
communication as well as communication with customers and
or infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights
suppliers. Any significant disruption of these systems, whether
of others.
due to computer viruses or other outside incursions, could
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability materially and adversely affect the Group’s operations.
lawsuits, including class actions, that involve substantial claims for
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest
damages related to the Group’s pharmaceutical products. See
rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other
Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’ for a
economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of
discussion of proceedings in which the Group is currently involved.
political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation
Litigation, particularly in the USA, is inherently unpredictable.
in jurisdictions in which the Group operates. These factors
Class actions that sweep together all persons who were prescribed
could materially affect the Group’s future financial results.
the Group’s products may inflate the potential liability by the force
of numbers. Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages The effective tax rate on the Group’s earnings benefits from the
are frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, fact that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable
may represent potentially open-ended exposure. Unfavourable rates in some jurisdictions outside the United Kingdom.
resolution of these and similar future proceedings may be material Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to
to the Group’s financial results. The Group may also make material matters, such as transfer pricing (see Note 12 to the Financial
provisions related to legal proceedings, which would reduce its statements, ‘Taxation’), that relate to the portion of the Group’s
earnings. earnings taxed at more favourable rates could increase the
Group’s effective tax rate and adversely affect its financial
Recent loss experience within the insurance industry as a whole,
results.
including pharmaceutical product liability exposures, has increased
the cost of insurance coverage for pharmaceutical companies New or revised accounting standards and rules promulgated
generally, including the Group. In order to contain insurance costs from time to time by UK, US or International accounting
in 2002 and 2003 the Group has adjusted its coverage profile, standard-setting boards could have a material adverse impact
accepting a greater degree of un-insured exposure. on the Group’s financial results.
The Group is responding to governmental investigations in the
USA into pricing, marketing and reimbursement of several
prescription drug products. These investigations could result in
related restitution or civil false claims act litigation on behalf of the
federal or state governments and proceedings initiated against
GlaxoSmithKline by or on behalf of consumers and private payers.
Unfavourable resolution of these and any similar future government
investigations may be material to the Group’s financial results.
The Group may also make material provisions related to such
investigations, which would reduce its earnings.
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated
sites. The Group has also been identified as a potentially
responsible party under the US Comprehensive Environmental
Response Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for
remediation costs relating to the Group’s use or ownership of such
sites. See Note 30 to the Financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’
for a discussion of environmental-related proceedings in which
the Group is involved.66 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
2001 Year
In accordance with USSEC disclosure requirements, the following Respiratory
discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2001 The successful launch of the asthma treatment Seretide/Advair
with the results for the year to 31st December 2000. in the USA and in a number of further countries in Europe and
International helped boost sales growth. This product, a
Exchange combination of Flixotide/Floventand Serevent, is available in 36
countries. Worldwide sales of Seretide/Advairexceeded $1billion
On average during 2001 sterling exchange rates were weaker
in 2001. In the USA three million prescriptions were written in the
against the US dollar and the Euro and stronger against the Yen
nine months following its launch in April 2001. The speed at
compared with 2000. In aggregate, currency movements in 2001
which patients adopted Seretide/Advairin the USA made it one
compared with 2000 had a net favourable effect on sterling
of the most successful pharmaceutical product launches ever.
results of two per cent in respect of sales and five per cent in
Seretide/Advair wasGlaxoSmithKline's largest product in Europe
respect of business performance earnings per share.
with sales of £441 million in 2001.
Pharmaceutical sales
An application for the EU registration of Seretidefor the treatment
Total pharmaceutical sales in 2001 were £17,205 million compared of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) was submitted in
to £15,429 million in 2000, an increase of nine per cent. On a like September. In January 2002, an FDA Advisory Committee
for like basis, if sales of products divested in 2000 as part of the recommended approval of Advairand Floventfor the treatment of
regulatory approval for the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and COPD associated with bronchitis. Flixotideand Serevent,as
SmithKline Beecham were excluded, sales grew 12 per cent from individual agents, are already approved in several countries for the
£14,982 million in 2000. Approximately one per cent of this treatment of COPD.
overall growth came from price increases.
As expected, sales of Flixotide/Floventand Sereventdeclined in
Within GlaxoSmithKline’s existing portfolio, sales of new products, various markets due to the increased momentum of
those launched in a major market within the last five years, Seretide/Advair. Sales of Flixonase/Flonase, used in the treatment
accounted for 22 per cent of total sales and grew by 48 per cent of perennial rhinitis, grew strongly.
to £3,709 million. Sales of the more established, franchise products
The older respiratory products Ventolinand Becotidecontinued to
amounted to £9,481 million representing 55 per cent of total
decline as patients converted to newer products.
sales and growth of 11 per cent compared to last year. Older
products, less actively promoted, at £4,015 million accounted for
Anti-bacterials
23 per cent of total sales, and declined by seven per cent.
Although overall sales in anti-bacterials showed little growth, the
Pharmaceutical sales growth in the fourth quarter of 2001 was broad-spectrum antibiotic, Augmentin,was still one of the highest
12 per cent to £4,719 million, with sales in the USA contributing selling products in the Group’s portfolio and achieved 13 per cent
£2,466 million; a growth of 15per cent. Although US wholesaler growth worldwide. Augmentin ES-600(extra strength) was
buying patterns distorted some product sales, total reported sales launched in the USA in October for the treatment of children with
growth was in line with underlying demand as indicated by recurrent or persistent middle ear infections. A submission for FDA
prescription data. In Europe sales improved five per cent to approval of Augmentin XR(extended release) was submitted but
£1,228 million, and in International sales improved 13 per cent extra data and other information was requested by the FDA.
`
to £1,025 million.
Overall, sales of the older products, Zinnat/Ceftin, Fortumand
Amoxilcontinued to decline, although sales of Zinnat/Ceftin
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area
grew in Central and Eastern Europe by 13 per cent.
Central nervous system
This major therapeutic area in GlaxoSmithKline’s portfolio recorded Anti-virals
a sales growth of 16 per cent. Seroxat/Paxiland Wellbutrindrove GlaxoSmithKline continued to expand its leadership in HIV/AIDS
sales growth in the anti-depressant sector up 20 per cent. In April with a global market share of 40 per cent.
2001 Paxilwas approved by the US FDA for the treatment of
Trizivir, GlaxoSmithKline’s new triple combination medicine for
generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) and in December for the
HIV/AIDS available in one tablet, was the key driver of growth
treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Seroxat/Paxilis
in the HIV/AIDS franchise. It was launched in a number of key
now approved in 28 countries for the treatment of GAD and in
markets during the year including much of Europe, the USA
20 countries for the treatment of PTSD. Wellbutrinsales were
and Canada.
driven by US sales growth of 37 per cent, as a result of increased
awareness amongst physicians of its efficacy and favourable side Sales of Combivir, which is a combination of Epivirand Retrovir,
effect profile in non-anxious depressed patients. grew five per cent. The major growth markets were Japan, Asia
Pacific, Middle East, Latin America and Africa.
In the migraine sector the successful launch in Japan of Imigran
Tablets 50,where this treatment had previously been available only Sales of Ziagenincreased five per cent. Approval was received for
as an injection, helped Imigran/Imitrexsales grow by four per cent. a paediatric indication in October for use in the EU. Ziagenhad
Lamictalfor the treatment of epilepsy grew strongly as did sales been approved already in more than 45 countries worldwide for
of Requipfor Parkinson’s disease. Zybanthe smoking cessation the treatment of HIV/AIDS in adults.
product was launched in France.
Sales of Zeffix, for hepatitis B, grew in all market regions. In the
USA, Zeffix, where it is marketed under the name Epivir-HBV,
was approved for the treatment of children over two years old
in August.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 67
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area 2001
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2001 2000 % CER* 2001 % CER 2001 % CER 2001 % CER
major products total 0 500 1,0001,50020002,5003,0003,5004,000 £m £m growth £m growth £m growth £m growth
CNS 23 4,007 3,279 16 2,835 14 779 13 393 34
Depression 2,504 2,002 20 1,880 20 378 12 246 40
Seroxat/Paxil 1,857 1,550 16 1,252 13 378 12 227 41
Wellbutrin 647 452 37 628 37 – – 19 27
Migraine 849 782 5 630 2 165 8 54 33
Imigran/Imitrex 758 705 4 575 1 136 7 47 34
Naramig/Amerge 91 77 15 55 15 29 12 7 25
Lamictal 355 289 20 179 23 139 18 37 12
Requip 75 58 25 36 31 36 19 3 35
Zyban 129 115 11 54 (14) 42 20 33 67
Respiratory 21 3,537 2,789 24 1,646 40 1,276 13 615 16
Flixotide/Flovent,
Serevent, Seretide/Advair 2,410 1,710 38 1,179 52 929 24 302 38
Seretide/Advair 850 208 >100 328 >100 441 >100 81 >100
Flixotide/Flovent 915 880 2 470 9 263 (15) 182 18
Serevent 645 622 1 381 10 225 (13) 39 4
Flixonase/Flonase 504 408 20 374 21 54 19 76 13
Ventolin 306 343 (9) 29 (10) 134 (11) 143 (8)
Becotide 161 205 (22) – – 122 (20) 39 (20)
Anti-virals 12 2,128 1,899 10 1,071 11 589 9 468 8
HIV 1,347 1,145 14 794 11 405 16 148 31
Trizivir 167 7 >100 115 >100 49 >100 3 >100
Combivir 606 562 5 358 (1) 182 4 66 50
Epivir 302 309 (5) 161 (6) 95 (7) 46 4
Retrovir 55 61 (11) 24 (9) 20 (13) 11 (13)
Ziagen 167 154 5 98 (7) 51 15 18 66
Agenerase 50 52 (7) 38 (21) 8 76 4 >100
Herpes 646 616 5 255 29 157 (5) 234 (7)
Valtrex 350 242 42 212 38 69 18 69 99
Zovirax 296 374 (19) 43 (1) 88 (17) 165 (24)
Zeffix 103 70 49 7 29 12 60 84 50
Anti-bacterials 15 2,604 2,472 3 1,304 10 702 (1) 598 (4)
Augmentin 1,421 1,219 13 912 21 322 (2) 187 6
Zinnat/Ceftin 409 430 (7) 180 (17) 123 6 106 (3)
Fortum 209 213 (2) 41 (1) 92 3 76 (7)
Amoxil 149 199 (26) 31 (44) 50 (20) 68 (20)
Metabolic and
gastro-intestinal 9 1,480 1,232 10 730 17 299 (3) 451 9
Avandia 707 462 46 623 37 32 >100 52 >100
Zantac 505 575 (11) 106 (16) 162 (15) 237 (5)
Vaccines 6 948 842 10 261 20 396 – 291 19
Hepatitis 445 462 (6) 187 9 183 (14) 75 (15)
Infanrix 238 171 36 72 97 116 16 50 32
Oncology and emesis 5 838 710 14 611 17 142 8 85 9
Zofran 601 491 19 428 21 108 14 65 14
Hycamtin 90 95 (9) 60 (11) 23 (5) 7 (4)
Cardiovascular 3 591 463 23 385 30 135 20 71 (2)
Coreg 251 148 56 242 56 – – 9 66
Arthritis (Relafen) 1 156 210 (29) 134 (28) 10 (45) 12 (22)
Other 5 916 1,086 (4) 60 (62) 233 (2) 623 11
Total sales
continuing business 100 17,205 14,982 12 9,037 16 4,561 7 3,607 10
Divested products – 447 – – – – – – –
Total pharmaceutical sales100 17,205 15,429 9 9,037 4,561 3,607
*CER represents sales growth at constant exchange rates.68 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
The performance of the herpes treatments Valtrexand Zovirax In the CNS therapeutic area Seroxat/Paxil, launched for generalised
produced a combined sales growth of five per cent. In the USA anxiety disorder in April, grew strongly and Wellbutrincontinued
Valtrex sales were helped by a DTC advertising campaign and the its good growth record. Both of these products benefited from the
approval in the USA of a shorter, three-day, course of therapy for growing anti-depressant market in the USA. Lamictal,indicated for
recurrent genital herpes. The decline of Zoviraxin some regions of epilepsy, grew 23per cent.
the world resulted from both a transfer to the newer Valtrex
In the anti-bacterials sector Augmentinreflected gains in share of
product and generic competition.
both the adult and paediatric markets. Growth was bolstered by
the launch of the ES (extra strength) formulation, which is indicated
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal
for the treatment of children with acute otitis media (middle ear
Avandia, a glitazone for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, was
infections).
the key driver of growth in the metabolic and gastro-intestinal
therapy area. In the USA Avandiasales benefited from increased The combination treatment Trizivirwas launched into the US market
acceptance of this revolutionary class of drugs to record growth in late 2000. Sales in its first full financial year amounted to
of 37 per cent. Avandia, launched in China and Italy in 2001, and £115 million helping to produce 11 per cent sales growth in the
approved in over 70 countries, was filed for marketing approval in HIV/AIDS sector of anti-virals. Also in the anti-virals market, Valtrex
Japan in December. for herpes showed a strong performance.
Sales of Zantaccontinued their decline in the face of generic
Europe
competition.
Europe region contributed 26 per cent of pharmaceutical sales
with the largest market, France, showing strong growth. Good
Vaccines
growth was recorded in other major markets including Italy, Spain
Infanrix, GlaxoSmithKline’s combination vaccine for diphtheria,
and Central and Eastern Europe. Seretidewas a major sales driver
tetanus and pertussis (whooping cough) drove total vaccines
in the region although, as in the USA, this affected sales of its
sales growth of 10 per cent. This together with strong growth by
constituent products. Seretide/Advairwas the largest product in
Priorix, Tritanrixand Typherixmore than offset a decline in the
Europe with sales of £441 million.
hepatitis portfolio of Twinrix, Havrixand Engerix-B. Subsequent to
the year end GlaxoSmithKline announced the discontinuation of In the CNS area Seroxat, coupled with the launch of Zybanin most
LYMErixin the USA as a result of poor demand for the product. markets, contributed most of the growth. Launches of Trizivir
helped produce a 16 per cent growth in the HIV/AIDS sector.
Oncology and emesis
In metabolic and gastro-intestinal, Zantacsales continued to decline
The continued sales growth of Zofran, used for management of
in the face of increased generic competition. This was partially
nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy and
offset by the performance of Avandiawith launchesin a number
radiotherapy cancer treatment, benefited the oncology and emesis
of markets including the UK and Germany.
therapy area which grew by 14 per cent overall. Sales of Hycamtin,
approved for the treatment of recurrent ovarian cancer, declined Anti-bacterials declined one per cent reflecting generic competition
by nineper cent, principally as a result of adverse wholesaler for Augmentinand Amoxil. Vaccines showed no growth due to a
buying patterns in the USA. decline in the hepatitis market in Germany, although sales improved
in other European countries principally UK, Spain and Italy.
Cardiovascular
In the Oncology area most of the growth was attributable to strong
Sales of Coreggrew 56 per cent. In November the FDA gave it
sales of Zofranin France and Germany offset by a decline in
approval for the treatment of severe heart failure. Coregis the
Hycamtinsales in most European countries.
only beta-blocking agent indicated to increase survival in mild,
moderate, and severe heart failure patients. GlaxoSmithKline has
International
exclusive rights to market Coregin the USA.
A 10 per cent sales growth in the International region reflected
strong growth in all major markets in this region.
Other therapeutic areas
Sales of Relafenfor arthritis fell reflecting generic competition in The market growth in Japan was driven by a number of therapeutic
the USA. areas. The launch of the tablet form of Imigranin August 2001
and Seroxatin late 2000 were key drivers. The switch from
Regional analysis Becotideto the newer product Flixotideand from Zoviraxto the
newer Valtrexcontributed to the sales growth of the newer
USA products but led also to a decline in the older products.
The Group earned 53 per cent of total pharmaceutical revenue
In Canada significant growth was achieved by Seretideand
in the USA in the year, recording a growth of 16 per cent.
Avandia, which was launched in March 2001. In other therapeutic
Advair/Seretide launched in mid-April 2001 achieved sales of
areas, Trizivirfor HIV treatment was launched in November.
£328million. Although this launch slowed sales growth of its
constituent products, Flixotide/Floventand Serevent, combined Seven per cent of total sales were derived from the Asia Pacific
sales of these three products amounted to £1,179 million with area, principally Australia, where sales growth was 17 per cent.
growth of 52 per cent. The metered dose inhaler of Seretidewas launched in this
market in May. Sales of Zybangrew after its successful launch
in late 2000.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 69
Latin America reported eight per cent sales growth reflecting strong Trading profit – business performance
growth in Mexico of 16 per cent. This area predominately benefited
To illustrate GlaxoSmithKline business performance in 2001, the
from the Seretide/Serevent/Flixotidemarket, which grew by 47 per
analysis below of trading profit and the subsequent discussion
cent. The HIV/AIDS and vaccines markets showed good return but
excludes merger items, integration and restructuring costs and the
anti-bacterials declined due to generic competition.
disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of these
The Middle East and Africa area followed the trends of most other non-recurring items provides a better comparison of business
markets with growth in the Seretide, Avandiaand HIV/AIDS performance for the periods presented. Accordingly this information
markets. The vaccines area recorded growth of over 50 per cent is provided as a supplement to that contained in the consolidated
and Zofran,in the Oncology area, drove growth to 72 per cent. statement of profit and loss on pages 76 and 77 prepared in
accordance with UKGAAP.
In sub-Saharan and South Africa, the key drivers of growth were
anti-virals and vaccines.
2001 2000
Consumer Healthcare sales £m % £m % CER%
2001 2000 Sales 20,489 100.0 18,079 100.0 11
£m £m CER%
Cost of sales (4,430) (21.6) (3,811) (21.1) 15
OTC medicines 1,603 1,454 8
Selling, general
Oral care 1,106 642 71
and administration (7,451) (36.4) (6,732) (37.2) 8
Nutritional healthcare 575 535 7
Research and
Total sales continuing business 3,284 2,631 23 development (2,555) (12.5) (2,510) (13.9) (1)
Divested products – 19 –
Trading profit 6,053 29.5 5,026 27.8 16
Total Consumer Healthcare sales 3,284 2,650 22
The acquisition of the Block Drug Company, Inc. was completed in Cost of sales
January 2001 adding £594 million to sales. This purchase added the Cost of sales increased as a percentage of sales as the loss of the
Sensodynetoothpaste brand, a range of denture care brands high-margin products divested in December 2000, the inclusion of
worldwide and significant additions to the Group’s OTC medicines, lower margin Block Drug products and higher stock provisions were
largely in the USA. The former Block Drug business was integrated only partly offset by the benefits of merger and manufacturing
into GlaxoSmithKline in 2001. restructuring savings.
As a result of this acquisition, GlaxoSmithKline became the number Selling, general and administration
two company globally in Oral care and added significant extra scale Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs benefited from
to its business particularly in North America, Japan and Europe. merger savings, principally in general and administration
expenditure, but the inclusion of Block Drug costs distorted the year
OTC medicines on year comparison. Excluding estimated Block Drug expenses,
Reported sales of OTC medicines grew eight per cent to growth in SG&A expenses would have been four per cent and
£1,603million primarily as a result of the acquisition of Block Drug. SG&A expressed as a percentage of sales would have been
Excluding Block Drug, OTC medicines declined two per cent 1.3 per cent lower.
reflecting private label competition for smoking control in the US
market and sluggish growth in the global OTC market. Research and development
In June, GlaxoSmithKline reached agreement with Taisho to Research and development expenditure was broadly level with last
establish a partnership to introduce its nicotine replacement year as savings from the merger have been made. Expenditure on
products into Japan. research and development is planned to increase in the future as
merger savings begin to be reinvested in this area.
Significant new product introductions in OTC medicines included
NiQuitin Lozenge, the most effective OTC product then launched Trading profit
tohelp smokers quit; Eumovate, a topical steroid – the first Business performance trading profit growth was 16 per cent,
GlaxoSmithKline switch from prescription to OTC, and two major reflecting improved trading margins. The trading margin improved
new extensions of Panadolanalgesic – a fast acting formula 1.7 per cent to 29.5 per cent as a result of cost savings from
marketed as ‘Actifast’ and a slow release product targeted at merger integration, partly offset by the divestment of certain high
persistent pain introduced in Scandinavia as ‘Extend’. margin products required by regulatory authorities as a condition
of the merger.
Oral care
The acquisition of Block Drug added a number of brands to the Profit before taxation – business performance
Oral care business namely Sensodyne, Polidentand Poligrip.
Excluding Block Drug, Oral care sales grew three per cent The analysis and discussion below of profit before taxation relates
reflecting strong growth in Europe partly offset by strong to business performance.
competitive pressures for Aquafreshin the US market.
2001 2000
Other operating income/(expense) £m £m
Nutritional healthcare
Royalties and other income 34 43
The Nutritional healthcare business grew seven per cent reflecting
Other operating expense (126) (58)
the strong performances of Lucozadeand Horlicks.
(92) (15)
Income from equity investments 129 289
37 27470 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Other operating income was significantly lower in 2001 than in Disposal of businesses
2000 due to lower sales of equity investments, lower product The loss on disposal of businesses in 2001 primarily arose on the
disposals and higher costs related to product withdrawals. sale of Affymax. The charge includes a £299 million write-off of
goodwill which was previously eliminated against reserves.
Profit on disposal of interest in associate
The Group sold 1.5 million shares in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. during Taxation 2001 2000
(restated) (restated)
the year realising a gain of £96 million. As at 31st December 2001, £m £m
after a 2 for 1 share split by Quest after the share sale,
Business performance (1,655) (1,497)
GlaxoSmithKline held 22.1 million shares.
Merger restructuring and disposal
of subsidiaries 322 (250)
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
(1,333) (1,747)
undertakings
The share of profits of associates arose principally from the Group’s
holding inQuest Diagnostics, Inc. The Group implemented FRS19 ‘Deferred Tax’ in 2002. This requires
deferred tax to be accounted for on a full provision basis, rather than
2001 2000 a partial provision basis as in 2001 and earlier years. This change in
Net interest payable £m £m
basis has been accounted for as a prior year adjustment and
Interest payable (198) (317) comparative information has been restated as necessary.
Investment income 129 158
(69) (159) Business performance taxation
Share of interest payable of associate (19) (23) The charge for taxation on business performance profit amounting
to £1,655 million represents an effective tax rate of 26.8 per cent.
(88) (182)
The tax rate benefits from lower rates of tax applicable to
Net interest payable was lower due to a lower average level of net manufacturing operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland.
debt in 2001 than in 2000 and to lower interest rates.
Merger and restructuring
Profit before taxation The credit for taxation on merger and restructuring items
Other operating income/(expense), together with the disposal of amounting to £322 million reflected the estimated actual tax rate
part of the interest inanassociate, added £133 million to profit applicable to the transactions in the territories in which they arose.
before taxation in 2001, compared to £418 million in 2000. This
reduction in one-time profits was planned to improve the overall Earnings 2001 2000
(restated) (restated)
quality of the Group’s earnings. Taking account of the contribution
Earnings (£m) 3,053 4,106
from associates, comprising share of profit less share ofinterest,
Basic earnings per share 50.3p 67.7p
less theGroup’s own net interest payable, business performance
Basic earnings per ADS $1.45 $2.06
profit before tax was £6,169million, compared to £5,327 million
in 2000, an increase of 12per cent.
Adjusted earnings (£m) 4,383 3,654
Adjusted earnings per share 72.3p 60.2p
Merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of businesses
Adjusted earnings per ADS $2.08 $1.83
The key items in 2001 are discussed below. Weighted average number of shares (millions) 6,064 6,065
Merger
Adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share for
Costs arising from the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and
GlaxoSmithKline are presented above in order to illustrate business
SmithKline Beecham businesses into a unified GlaxoSmithKline
performance which is the primary measure used by management,
business, referred to as merger integration costs, amounted in 2001
as discussed earlier.
to £1,069 million. The costs primarily include consultancy fees,
severance, asset write-offs and share option retention incentives.
Manufacturing and other restructuring
Costs of £147 million were incurred in implementing the previously
announced Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham plans for
restructuring of manufacturing and other activities. A further
£15million was charged in respect of post-merger restructuring
activities. The costs in 2001 include consultancy fees, severance
and asset write-offs.
Block Drug Company, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline acquired Block Drug in January 2001. The costs
incurred in acquiring and integrating this business were
£125million in 2001 comprising professional fees, severance and
asset write-offs.Operating and financial review and prospectsGlaxoSmithKline 71
Selected financial data UK/USGAAP
Profit and loss account 2001 2000 1999 1998
2002 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
Sales 21,212 20,489 18,079 16,796 16,002
Operating profit 5,551 4,734 4,729 4,343 4,306
Profit before taxation 5,506 4,517 6,029 4,236 3,564
Earnings 3,915 3,053 4,106 3,077 2,436
Basic earnings per share 66.2p 50.3p 67.7p 50.3p 39.9p
Diluted earnings per share 66.0p 49.9p 66.9p 49.9p 39.4p
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,912 6,064 6,065 6,118 6,100
Diluted 5,934 6,116 6,134 6,171 6,178
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline share (p):
GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 40.0 39.0
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 38.0 37.0 36.0
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 29.66 26.69 24.02
Dividends are expressed in terms of a GlaxoSmithKline share.
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
Sales 21,212 20,489 9,559 8,490 7,983
Operating profit 1,026 590 (4,456) 1,634 1,816
Profit/(loss) before tax 925 494 (4,399) 1,584 1,804
Net income/(loss) 413 (143) (5,228) 913 1,010
Basic net income/(loss) per share (pence) 7.0p (2.4)p (145.6)p 25.2p 28.1p
Diluted net income/(loss) per share (pence) 7.0p (2.4)p (145.6)p 25.1p 27.8p
The information below presents US GAAP net income/(loss) and net income/(loss) per share as if the results for the years ended
31st December 1998 to 2001 were adjusted to reverse the amortisation expense for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, that is,
as if SFAS142 had also applied in those years.
Adjusted net income/(loss) 1,456 (4,658) 1,476 1,573
Adjusted basic net income/(loss) per share (pence) 24.0p (129.7)p 40.8p 43.7p
Adjusted diluted net income/(loss) per share (pence) 23.8p (129.7)p 40.6p 43.3p
Balance sheet
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts in accordance with UK GAAP
Total assets 22,327 22,343 21,999 19,162 18,592
Net assets 7,388 8,252 8,834 6,534 5,271
Equity shareholders’ funds 6,581 7,390 7,590 5,391 4,158
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
Total assets 57,671 61,341 65,786 13,901 14,035
Net assets 35,729 40,969 46,239 7,281 8,073
Shareholders’ equity 34,922 40,107 44,995 7,230 8,007
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars
for sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
Average 1.51 1.44 1.51 1.61 1.66
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month during the year.
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 2002
High 1.65 1.65 1.61 1.59 1.57 1.57
Low 1.57 1.60 1.56 1.54 1.54 1.53
The noon buying rate on 3rd March 2003 was £1= US$1.58.
During 2002, FRS 19 ‘Deferred Tax’ has been implemented by the Group under UKGAAP. This FRS requires deferred tax to be accounted
for on a full provision basis, rather than a partial provision basis as in 2001 and earlier years. This change has been accounted for as a
prior year adjustment for UKGAAP purposes and comparative information has been restated as necessary. This change had no impact on
USGAAP results.72 GlaxoSmithKline Operating and financial review and prospects
Results under US accounting principles 2002 and 2001
This review discusses the results of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the Prospects
years 2002 and 2001 and shareholders’ equity at 31st December
GlaxoSmithKline has published expectations of future growth in
2002 prepared under US accounting principles. See Note 37 to the
earnings per share, on a UKGAAPbasis, and excluding merger
Financial statements, ‘Reconciliation to USaccounting principles’.
and restructuring items. See ‘Outlook’ on page 64.
Results 2002 and 2001
Recent Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
2002 2001
Summary of results £m £m pronouncements
In June 2001, the FASB approved SFAS143 ‘Accounting for
Sales 21,212 20,489
Obligations Associated with the Retirement of Long-Lived Assets’
Trading profit 5,243 4,205
which requires that the fair values of the obligation associated
Operating profit 1,026 590
with the retirement of long-lived assets be capitalised as part of
Profit before tax 925 494
the cost. This was implemented by the Group with effect from
Net income/(loss) before changes
1st January 2003. The Group does not believe the adoption of
in accounting principles 503 (143)
this standard will have a material impact on its results.
Cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles (90) – On 1st January 2002, SFAS 144 ‘Accounting for the Impairment
Net income/(loss) 413 (143) or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets’ was adopted by the Group.
Basic net income/(loss) per share (pence) 7.0 (2.4) SFAS144 develops one accounting model for long-lived assets,
including discontinued operations to be disposed of by sale. It
Operating profit is lower on a USGAAPbasis than a UK GAAP requires that all long-lived assets be measured at the lower of
basis, primarily as a result of the amortisation and impairment of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell whether reported in
intangible assets not recorded on the balance sheet under UK continuing or discontinued operations. The adoption of SFAS144
GAAP. Operating profit also includes a charge under SFAS123 for has not had a material impact on the Group’s Financial
stock-based compensation and a charge for pension and post- statements.
retirement benefits. These are partially offset in net income by the
In April 2002, SFAS145 ‘Rescission of FASBStatements no. 4,
related deferred tax credits.
44 and 64, Amendment of FASBStatement no. 13 and Technical
The Group adopted SFAS 142 as of 1st January 2002. The Corrections’ was issued. The statement updates, clarifies and
implementation of SFAS142 resulted in an initial impairment of simplifies existing accounting standards. The Group does not
£127 million, net of tax, on indefinite lived intangible assets. During believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact
2002, the Group also aligned the measurement date for all its on its results.
pension plans to 31st December. The impact was a £37 million
SFAS146 ‘Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
credit, net of tax. Both changes are reflected as cumulative effects
Activities’, was issued in June 2002. SFAS146 requires companies
of changes in accounting principles.
to recognise costs associated with exit or disposal activities when
The effect of these differences from UKGAAP leads in 2002 to a they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an
USGAAP profit before tax of £925 million and, after tax and exit or disposal plan and is to be applied prospectively to exit or
minority interest and the cumulative effect of changes in disposal activities initiated after 31st December 2002. The Group
accounting principles, net income for the year of £413 million. is currently assessing the impact of this standard.
In 2001 profit before tax was £494million and, after tax and
In November 2002, the FASB published Interpretation no. 45,
minority interest, the net loss was £143 million.
‘Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosures requirements for
Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Shareholders’ equity at 31st December 2002
Others’ (FIN45). FIN45 expands on the accounting guidance of
2002 2001 other SFASs. FIN45’s provisions for initial recognition and
Changes in shareholders’ equity £m £m
measurement should be applied to guarantees issued or modified
At beginning of year 40,107 44,995 after 31st December 2002. The disclosure requirements are
Net income/(loss) 413 (143) effective for financial years ending after 15th December 2002.
Shares purchased and cancelled (2,220) (1,274) The Group does not believe that the adoption of FIN45 will
Share issues (share options) 56 144 have a material impact on its results.
Treasury stock 58 (501)
Dividends (2,310) (2,872) In January 2003, the FASB published Interpretation no. 46,
Minimum pension liability (1,446) – ‘Consideration of Variable Interest Entities’ (FIN46). Under FIN46
Other 264 (242) the primary beneficiary of the entity must consolidate certain
entities known as Variable Interest Entities. The measurement
At end of year 34,922 40,107
principles will apply to the Group’s 2003 Financial statements.
The Group does not believe that the adoption of FIN46 will
The book values of GlaxoSmithKline net assets on a UKGAAP basis
have a material impact on its results.
are adjusted for the normal UK/USGAAP differences. The principal
adjustments to net assets for differences between UK and USGAAP
include: goodwill and intangible assets from Glaxo’s acquisition of
Wellcome and Glaxo Wellcome’s acquisition of SmithKline Beecham;
dividends on a declared rather than proposed basis; treatment of
shares held by the ESOTs as treasury stock rather than investments;
and inclusion of a minimum pension liability in net assets.GlaxoSmithKline 73
Financial statements
This section comprises the Directors’ statements, the independent
auditors’ report on the Financial statements, the Financial
statements consisting of the principal Financial statements and
supporting notes, and additional financial data.
74 Directors’ statements of responsibility
75 Independent Auditors’ report
Financial statements
76 Consolidated statement of profit and loss
76 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
78 Consolidated statement of cash flow
80 Consolidated balance sheet
80 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
81 Company balance sheet
82 Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of Financial statements
2. Accounting policies
3. New accounting policies and requirements
4. Exchange rates
5. Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
6. Segment information
7. Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
8. Other operating income/(expense)
9. Operating profit
10. Joint ventures and associated undertakings
11. Net interest payable
12. Taxation
13. Earnings per share
14. Dividends
15. Goodwill
16. Intangible assets
17. Tangible fixed assets
18. Fixed asset investments
19. Equity investments
20. Stocks
21. Debtors
22. Other creditors
23. Provisions for liabilities and charges
24. Contingent liabilities
25. Net debt
26. Commitments
27. Share capital and share premium account
28. Non-equity minority interests
29. Reserves
30. Legal proceedings
31. Acquisitions and disposals
32. Financial instruments and related disclosures
33. Employee costs
34. Employee share schemes
35. Related party transactions
36. GlaxoSmithKline plc investment in subsidiary companies
37. Reconciliation to US accounting principles
38. Principal Group companies
Financial record
142 Quarterly trend
148 Five year record74 GlaxoSmithKline
Directors’ statements of responsibility
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation Internal control
tothefinancial statements
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
The Directors are: assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness
• responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting
of the system of internal control in operation intheGroup for
records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial
the year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval
position of the Group at any time and from which financial
by the Board of Directors.
statements can beprepared to comply with the Companies
Act1985
The Combined Code
• required by law to prepare financial statements for each
financial period which give a true and fair view of the state The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
of affairs of the company and the Group as at the end of of the Combined Code, asdescribed under ‘Corporate governance’
the financial period and ofthe profit or loss for that period (pages 31 to 38), and has complied with the requirements of the
• responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of Combined Code,withtheexception of the provisions relating to
internalcontrol and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the Executive Directors’ service contracts, pensionable bonuses
the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting and terminationcommitments, where the company’s position is
fraud and other irregularities. described in the Remuneration report.
The Financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2002, As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority,
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out the auditors haveconsidered the Directors’ statement of
in‘Financial statements’ (pages 76 to 141 of this report). compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code
which are specified for theirreview.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements,
Annual Report
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates
asnecessary; applicable accounting standards have been followed, The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2002,
and the Financial statements have been prepared on the going comprising the Report of the Directors, the Directors’ Remuneration
concern basis. Report, the Financial statements and additional information for
investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial
on its behalf by
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report
(page 75 opposite).
Sir Christopher Hogg,
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2002 Chairman
are included in the Annual Report 2002, which is published in 10th March 2003
hard-copy printed form and on the website. The Directors are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to
the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable
legislation may be different.
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration report (pages 39 to 50 of this report) sets out
the remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and
disclosures on Directors’ remuneration and other disclosable
information relating to Directors and officers and their interests.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985,
as amended by the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations
2002 and complies with Section B of the Combined Code.
Going concern basis
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectationthat the Group and company have adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Forthis reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis
inpreparing the Financial statements.GlaxoSmithKline 75
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the consolidated financial statements which We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
comprise the consolidated statement of profit and loss, information and explanations which we considered necessary in
consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
consolidated statement of cash flow, consolidated balance sheet assurance that the consolidated financial statements and the
and the related notes, which have been prepared under the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report are free from
historical cost convention and the accounting policies set out in material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other
the statement of accounting policies. We have also audited the irregularity or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the
disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the
Act 1985 contained in the Directors’ remuneration report (‘the consolidated financial statements.
auditable part’).
United Kingdom opinion
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors
In our opinion:
The Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of
the Directors’ remuneration report and the consolidated financial affairs of the company and the Group at 31st December 2002
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year;
and accounting standards are set out in the statement of • the financial statements have been properly prepared in
Directors’ responsibilities. accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
• those parts of the Directors’ remuneration report required by
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements
Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been
and the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report in
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing
United States opinion
Practices Board.
In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated
material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the
at 31st December 2002 and 2001, and the results of its
consolidated financial statements and the auditable part of the
consolidated operations and consolidated cash flows for each of
Directors’ remuneration report have been properly prepared in
the three years in the period ended 31st December 2002, in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
you if, in our opinion, the report of the Directors is not consistent
United Kingdom.
with the consolidated financial statements, if the company has
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles
information specified by law regarding Directors’ remuneration generally accepted in the United States. The application of the
and transactions is not disclosed. latter would have affected the determination of consolidated net
income expressed in sterling for each of the three years in the
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report
period ended 31st December 2002 and the determination of
and consider the implications for our report if we become aware
consolidated shareholders’ equity also expressed in sterling at
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with
31st December 2002 and 2001 to the extent summarised in Note
the consolidated financial statements. The other information
37 to the consolidated financial statements.
comprises only the report of the Directors, the joint statement by
the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, the operating and
financial review and prospects and the corporate governance
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
statement.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects Southwark Towers
the company’s compliance with the seven provisions of the London, England
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of 10th March 2003
the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We
are not required to consider whether the Board’s statements on
internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion
on the effectiveness of the company’s or Group’s corporate
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards
issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board and with
Auditing Standards generally accepted in the United States. An
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and
the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report. It also
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements
made by the Directors in the preparation of the consolidated
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
appropriate to the company and Group’s circumstances, consistently
applied and adequately disclosed.76 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated statement of profit and loss
for the year ended 31st December 2002
2002
Merger,
restructuring
Business and disposal
performance of subsidiaries Statutory
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 21,212 – 21,212
Cost of sales (4,243) (366) (4,609)
Gross profit 16,969 (366) 16,603
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,543) (498) (8,041)
Research and development expenditure (2,732) (168) (2,900)
Trading profit 6,694 (1,032) 5,662
Other operating income/(expense) 8 (111) – (111)
Operating profit 7,9 6,583 (1,032) 5,551
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 10 75 – 75
Profit on disposal of interest in associate 31 – – –
Product divestments 7 – 11 11
Merger transaction costs 7 – – –
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses 7 – 10 10
Profit before interest 6,658 (1,011) 5,647
Net interest payable 11 (141) – (141)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,517 (1,011) 5,506
Taxation 7,12 (1,760) 299 (1,461)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,757 (712) 4,045
Minority interests (110) – (110)
Preference share dividends (20) – (20)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 13 4,627 (712) 3,915
Basic earnings per share 13 – 66.2p
Adjusted earnings per share 13 78.3p –
Diluted earnings per share 13 – 66.0p
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,915
Dividends 14 (2,346)
Retained profit 1,569
All items dealt with in arriving at business performance operating profit relate to continuing activities. There is no difference between the
profit on ordinary activities before taxation and the retained profit stated above and their historical cost equivalents.
During 2002, FRS19 ‘Deferred Tax’ has been implemented by the Group. This FRS requires deferred tax to be accounted for on a full provision
basis, rather than a partial provision basis as in 2001 and earlier years. This change has been accounted for as a prior year adjustment and
comparative information has been restated as necessary.
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
for the year ended 31st December 2002
2002
£m
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,915
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (154)
UK tax on exchange movements (67)
Unrealised gains on equity investments 7
Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 3,701
Prior year adjustment - implementation of FRS19 (127)
Total recognised gains and losses 3,574Consolidated statement of profit and lossGlaxoSmithKline 77
2001 2000
Merger, Merger,
restructuring restructuring
Business and disposal Business and disposal
performance of subsidiaries Statutory performance of subsidiaries Statutory
(restated) (restated) (restated) (restated (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m
20,489 – 20,489 18,079 – 18,079
(4,430) (303) (4,733) (3,811) (151) (3,962)
16,059 (303) 15,756 14,268 (151) 14,117
(7,451) (957) (8,408) (6,732) (404) (7,136)
(2,555) (96) (2,651) (2,510) (16) (2,526)
6,053 (1,356) 4,697 5,026 (571) 4,455
37 – 37 274 – 274
6,090 (1,356) 4,734 5,300 (571) 4,729
71 – 71 65 (8) 57
96 – 96 144 – 144
– – – – 1,416 1,416
– – – – (121) (121)
– (296) (296) – (14) (14)
6,257 (1,652) 4,605 5,509 702 6,211
(88) – (88) (182) – (182)
6,169 (1,652) 4,517 5,327 702 6,029
(1,655) 322 (1,333) (1,497) (250) (1,747)
4,514 (1,330) 3,184 3,830 452 4,282
(97) – (97) (120) – (120)
(34) – (34) (56) – (56)
4,383 (1,330) 3,053 3,654 452 4,106
– 50.3p – 67.7p
72.3p – 60.2p –
– 49.9p – 66.9p
3,053 4,106
(2,356) (2,097)
697 2,009
2001 2000
(restated) (restated)
£m £m
3,053 4,106
(151) (23)
– 16
– –
2,902 4,09978 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated statement of cash flow
for the year ended 31st December 2002
Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flows 2002 2001 2000
Notes £m £m £m
Operating profit 5,551 4,734 4,729
Depreciation 764 761 735
Impairment and assets written off 288 178 136
Amortisation of goodwill and intangible fixed assets 72 50 38
Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets 26 99 41
Profit on sale of equity investments (46) (118) (225)
(Increase)/decrease in stocks (2) 252 (16)
Increase in trade and other debtors (72) (77) (333)
Increase in trade and other creditors 459 601 402
Increase in pension and other provisions 256 144 70
Other (41) (93) (39)
Merger transaction costs paid – (24) (97)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,255 6,507 5,441
Cash flow statement
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,255 6,507 5,441
Dividends from joint ventures and associated undertakings 2 – 1
Returns on investment and servicing of finance (237) (191) (322)
Taxation paid (1,633) (1,717) (1,240)
Capital expenditure and financial investment (1,120) (1,779) (327)
Acquisitions and disposals 31 (20) (657) 66
Equity dividends paid (2,327) (2,325) (2,028)
Net cash inflow/(outflow) before management of liquid resources and financing 1,920 (162) 1,591
Management of liquid resources 52 994 (223)
Financing (1,567) (1,444) (546)
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 405 (612) 822
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Net debt at beginning of year (2,101) (611) (2,357)
Increase/(decrease) in cash in the year 405 (612) 822
Cash (outflow)/inflow from management of liquid resources (52) (994) 223
Net increase in long-term loans (1,005) (861) (9)
Net repayment of short-term loans 542 860 706
Net repayment of/(increase in) obligations under finance leases 1 2 (13)
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired (4) 56 –
Exchange adjustments (121) 59 24
Other non-cash movements – – (7)
Movement in net debt (234) (1,490) 1,746
Net debt at end of year 25 (2,335) (2,101) (611)Consolidated statement of cash flowGlaxoSmithKline 79
Analysis of cash flows 2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m
Returns on investment and servicing of finance
Interest received 83 134 157
Interest paid (215) (196) (328)
Dividends paid to minority shareholders (85) (91) (95)
Dividends paid on preference shares (20) (38) (56)
(237) (191) (322)
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (1,044) (1,115) (1,007)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 59 65 46
Purchase of intangible assets (182) (196) (96)
Sale of intangible assets – 6 –
Product divestments (1) (30) 1,529
Purchase of own shares for employee share options and awards – (795) (1,232)
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 58 194 206
Purchase of equity investments (75) (47) (62)
Sale of equity investments 65 139 289
(1,120) (1,779) (327)
Acquisitions and disposals(Note 31)
Purchase of businesses (21) (848) (25)
Cash acquired with subsidiary – 45 –
Disposal of businesses 6 66 (62)
Investment in joint ventures and associated undertakings (5) (44) (2)
Disposal of interests in associates – 124 155
(20) (657) 66
Financing
Issue of share capital 56 144 185
Redemption of preference shares issued by a subsidiary – (457) –
Share capital purchased for cancellation (2,220) (1,274) –
Other financing cash flows 135 144 (47)
Increase in long-term loans 1,094 973 12
Repayment of long-term loans (89) (112) (3)
Net repayment of short-term loans (542) (860) (706)
Net (repayment of)/increase in obligations under finance leases (1) (2) 13
(1,567) (1,444) (546)
Analysis of changes in net debt At 31.12.02 Cash flow Acquisitions Exchange At 1.1.02
£m £m £m £m £m
Cash at bank 1,052 378 – (42) 716
Overdrafts (193) 27 – 10 (230)
859 405 – (32) 486
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (1,284) (15) – – (1,269)
Other (74) 558 – (7) (625)
(1,358) 543 – (7) (1,894)
Debt due after one year:
Euro Bonds, Medium-Term Notes and private financing (3,054) (1,027) – 32 (2,059)
Other (38) 22 (4) (7) (49)
(3,092) (1,005) (4) 25 (2,108)
Management of liquid resources:
Liquid investments 1,256 (52) – (107) 1,415
Net debt (2,335) (109) (4) (121) (2,101)80 GlaxoSmithKline
Consolidated balance sheet
at 31st December 2002
2001
2002 (restated)
Notes £m £m
Goodwill 15 171 174
Intangible assets 16 1,637 1,673
1,808 1,847
Tangible assets 17 6,649 6,845
Investments 18 3,121 3,228
Fixed assets 11,578 11,920
Equity investments 19 161 185
Stocks 20 2,080 2,090
Debtors 21 6,200 6,017
Liquid investments 25 1,256 1,415
Cash at bank 25 1,052 716
Current assets 10,749 10,423
Loans and overdrafts 25 (1,551) (2,124)
Other creditors 22 (7,257) (7,306)
Creditors: amounts due within one year (8,808) (9,430)
Net current assets 1,941 993
Total assets less current liabilities 13,519 12,913
Loans 25 (3,092) (2,108)
Other creditors 22 (206) (190)
Creditors: amounts due after one year (3,298) (2,298)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (2,833) (2,363)
Net assets 7,388 8,252
Called up share capital 27 1,506 1,543
Share premium account 27 224 170
Other reserves 29 1,905 1,866
Profit and loss account 29 2,946 3,811
Equity shareholders’ funds 6,581 7,390
Non-equity minority interests 28 559 621
Equity minority interests 248 241
Capital employed 7,388 8,252
Approved by the Board
Sir Christopher Hogg,Chairman
10th March 2003
Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds
for the year ended 31st December 2002
2001
2002 (restated)
Notes £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds at beginning of year as previously reported 7,517 7,711
Prior year adjustment – implementation of FRS19 (127) (121)
Equity shareholders’ funds at beginning of year as restated 7,390 7,590
Total recognised gains and losses for the year 3,701 2,902
Dividends 14 (2,346) (2,356)
Share capital issued 56 144
Share capital purchased and cancelled (2,220) (1,274)
Exchange movements on goodwill written off to reserves – 28
Goodwill written back 29 – 356
Equity shareholders’ funds at end of year 6,581 7,390GlaxoSmithKline 81
Company balance sheet
at 31st December 2002
2002 2001
Notes £m £m
Shares in subsidiary companies – at cost 36 17,612 1,574
Fixed assets 17,612 1,574
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,412 2,122
Taxation 66 –
Current assets 1,478 2,122
Taxation – (1)
Dividends payable 14 (1,289) (1,264)
Amounts owed to Group undertakings (5,192) –
Creditors: amounts due within one year (6,481) (1,265)
Net current assets/(liabilities) (5,003) 857
Net assets 12,609 2,431
Called up share capital 27 1,506 1,543
Share premium account 27 224 170
Other reserves 29 56 17
Profit and loss account 29 10,823 701
Equity shareholders’ funds 12,609 2,431
Approved by the Board
Sir Christopher Hogg,Chairman
10th March 200382 GlaxoSmithKline
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial statements Additional information in accordance with the requirements of
USgenerally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) is included
Description of business
in the Notes to the Financial statements. In Note 37 a statement of
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is
differences, and a reconciliation of net income and shareholders’
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture
equity, between UK and US GAAP are provided, and the principal
and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines,
Financial statements are presented in accordance with US GAAP
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer
andin a USGAAP format.
products. GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products
include medicines in the following therapeutic areas:
Merger of GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
central nervous system, respiratory, anti-virals, anti-bacterials,
GlaxoSmithKline plc acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
metabolic and gastro-intestinal, vaccines, oncology and emesis,
Beecham plc by way of a scheme of arrangement for the merger of
cardiovascular and arthritis.
the two companies which became effective on 27th December 2000.
Financial period Under UKGAAP the Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
These Financial statements cover the financial year from are prepared as a merger of GlaxoWellcome plc and SmithKline
1st January to 31stDecember 2002, with comparative figures for Beecham plc. The comparative figures for the year to
the financial years from 1st January to 31st December 2001 and 31st December 2000 therefore include the results of Glaxo
1st January to31st December 2000. Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc.
Under US GAAP the Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Composition of the Group
are prepared as an acquisition of SmithKline Beecham plc by
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the
Glaxo Wellcome plc at 27th December 2000. Accordingly the
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit
results of SmithKline Beecham for all periods prior to that date are
or the net assets of the Group is given in Principal Group
not consolidated.
companies, Note 38.
Presentation of statement of profit and loss
Composition of financial statements
A columnar presentation has been adopted in the statement of
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in accordance
profit and loss in order to illustrate underlying business performance
with UK generally accepted accounting principles (UKGAAP) and
as this is the primary measure used by management. For this
with UK accounting presentation.
purpose certain items are identified separately and are excluded
The Financial statements comprise: from business performance. These comprise: merger and integration
items, including product divestments; costs relating to previously
• Consolidated statement of profit and loss
announced manufacturing and other restructuring, and theeffect
• Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses
of disposals of subsidiaries.
• Consolidated statement of cash flow
• Consolidated balance sheet Trading profit reflects sales less: cost of sales, comprising costs
• Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds ofmanufacture and external royalties; selling, general and
• Company balance sheet administrative expenditure, comprising the costs of selling,
• Notes to the financial statements. distribution and medical support of currently marketed products
and the costs of administration; and the costs of research and
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the
development to create future products for sale.
profitand loss account of the company is not presented.
The consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses Accounting convention
includes: The Financial statements have been prepared using the historical
cost convention.
• the realised profit attributable to shareholders as reflected in
theconsolidated profit and loss account
Accounting standards
• the unrealised gain or loss in the value of the Group’s overseas
The Financial statements comply with all applicable UK accounting
net assets, less related foreign currency borrowings, attributable
standards.
to currency movements over the period.
The reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders’ funds Accounting principles and policies
comprises the items contributing to the increase or decrease over The preparation of Financial statements in conformity with generally
the period in shareholders’ funds. Such items include: accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
• the total recognised gains and losses for the period
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
• dividends paid and proposed
liabilities at the date of the Financial statements and the reported
• the proceeds of shares issued during the period
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
• the cost of shares purchased for cancellation under the
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
share buy-back programme
• changes to goodwill, arising on acquisitions prior to The Financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
1st January 1998, which has been set directly against reserves. the company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
described in Note 2. The company has implemented one new
Financial Reporting Standard in 2002 as described inNote 3.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 83
2 Accounting policies Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked
Consolidation
inlocal currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
The consolidated Financial statements include:
transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by a forward
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flow, of the exchangecontract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are
company and its subsidiary undertakings, including Employee translated into local currency at rates of exchange ruling at the
Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs) balance sheet date, or at the forward rate. Exchange differences
• the Group’s share of the net assets and results of joint ventures areincluded in trading profit.
and associated undertakings.
Revenue
The Financial statements of undertakings consolidated are made
Revenue is recognised in the profit and loss account when goods
up to 31st December.
or services are supplied to external customers against orders
Undertakings in which the Group has a material interest are received. Turnover represents the net invoice value, after the
accounted for as subsidiaries where the Group exercises dominant deduction of discounts given at the point of sale, of products
influence, as joint ventures where the Group exercises joint control despatched to, or available for collection by, customers, less
and as associates where the Group can exercise significant accruals for estimated future rebates and returns. Value added tax
influence. ESOTs are accounted for as subsidiaries on the grounds and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
that the Group has de facto control.
Expenditure
Interests acquired in undertakings are consolidated from the
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
effective date of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
upto the date of disposal.
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
Transactions and balances between subsidiary undertakings are past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
eliminated; no profit is taken on sales between subsidiary estimated. Advertising expenditure is charged to the profit and loss
undertakings or sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings account as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-company transfers are
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers are
included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interestsin subsidiary
Restructuring costs are recognised in respect of the direct
undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings,
expenditures of a business reorganisation where the plans are
representing the excess of the purchase consideration over the
sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate
Group’s share of the separable net assets acquired, is capitalised
communication to those affected has been undertaken at the
asa separate item in the case of subsidiary undertakings and as
balance sheet date.
part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and
associated undertakings. Goodwill is denominated in the currency
Research and development
inwhich the acquisition is made and financed. In the case of
Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit
acquisitions prior to 1998, goodwill was written off against
and loss account in the period in which it is incurred. Tangible
reserves; on a subsequent disposal of assets from such acquisitions,
fixed assets used for research and development are depreciated in
any related goodwill is removed from consolidated reserves and
accordance with the Group’s policy.
charged to the consolidated profit and lossaccount.
The Group’s interests in its joint ventures are accounted for using Environmental expenditure
thegross equity method. The Group’s interests in its associated Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
undertakings are accounted for using the equity method. from past or current operations and from which no current or
future benefit is discernible is charged to the profit and loss
Deferred taxation relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is
account. The Group determines its liability on a site-by-site basis
accounted for only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
and records a liability at the time when it is probable and can be
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary and associated reasonably estimated. This liability includes the Group’s own portion
undertakings and joint ventures including related goodwill, are of the costs and also a portion of other potentially responsible
translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance parties’ costs when it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy
sheet date. The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and their respective shares of the clean-up obligation. When recoveries
associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated into of reimbursements are virtually certain they are recorded as assets.
sterling using average rates of exchange. Exchange adjustments
arising when the opening net assets and the profits for theyear Legal and other disputes
retained by overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs and legal and
joint ventures are translated into sterling, less exchange differences other expenses associated with claims received and legal and other
arising on related foreign currency borrowings, are taken directly disputes against the Group where a reasonable estimate can be
to reserves and reported in the statement of total recognised made of the likely outcome of the dispute. No provision is made for
gains andlosses. unasserted claims or where an obligation exists under a dispute but
it is not possible to make a reasonable estimate. Costs associated
In translating into sterling, assets, liabilities, results and cash flows
with claims made by the Group against third parties are charged to
of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures
the profit and loss account as they are incurred.
reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, adjustments
aremade to reflect current price levels. Any loss on net monetary
assetsis charged to the consolidated profit and loss account.84 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting policiescontinued Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less provisions for
Pensions and post-retirement benefits
depreciation or impairment. The costs of acquiring and developing
The cost of providing pensions and other employee post-retirement
computer software for internal use and internet sites for external
benefits is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account on a
use are capitalised as a tangible fixed asset where the software or
systematic and rational basis, based on actuarial assumptions, over
site supports a significant business system and the expenditure
the period during which benefit is derived from employees’ services.
leads to the creation of a durable asset.
Any difference between this charge and the contributions paid is
included as an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet. Depreciationis calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed
assets, excluding freehold land, in equal annual instalments over
Employee share plans their expected useful lives. The normal expected useful lives of the
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under major categories of tangible fixed assets are reviewed annually
share option and share award schemes. In respect of award and are:
schemes and certain share option grants, the company provides
finance to ESOTs to purchase company shares on the open market Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
to meet the company’s obligation to provide shares when Leasehold land and The shorter of lease term and 50
employees exercise their option or award; anyexcess of the buildings years
purchase price of the shares above the exercise price of the options Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
and awards is charged to the profit and loss account over the Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years
periods of service in respect of which the options and awards are ERP systems software 7 years
granted. In respect of other share option grants, share options Other computer software 3 to 5 years
when exercised are accounted for as share issues at exercise price.
ERP systems software generally involves significant customisation
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are
prior to implementation and is expected to have a useful economic
charged to the profit and loss account over the periods of service.
life of seven years, rather than the maximum five years of other
Costs of running the ESOTs are charged to the profit and loss computer software.
account. Shares held by the ESOTs are accounted for as fixed asset
Ondisposal of a tangible fixed asset, the cost and related
investments held at cost less a provision to recognise any shortfall
accumulated depreciation are removed from the financial
in the proceeds receivable from employees on exercise unless there
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to
is deemed to be a permanent impairment in value.
the consolidated profit and loss account.
Goodwill
Leases
Goodwill is stated at cost less a provision for amortisation.
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all
Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost in equal annual
the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as
instalments over its expected useful life. The useful life is not
finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The
normally expected to exceed 20 years.
assets are included intangible fixed assets and the capital element
of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance
Intangible fixed assets
leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the
Intangible assets are stated at cost less a provision for amortisation.
shorter ofthe lease terms and the useful lives of the assets. The
Acquired licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights are interest element of the lease rental is charged against profit.
amortised over their estimated useful lives in equal instalments, All other leases are operating leases and the annual rentals are
but no longer than 15 years. Items capitalised are restricted to charged against profit on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
those related to specific compounds or products which are being
developed for commercial applications. The estimated useful lives Impairment of fixed assets
for determining the amortisation charge are reviewed annually, The carrying values of fixed assets are reviewed for impairment
andtake into account the estimated time it takes to bring the when there is an indication that the assets might be impaired.
compounds or products to market as marketable products. Any provision for impairment is charged against profit in the year
Anydevelopment costs which are incurred by the Group and concerned. Firstyear impairment reviews are conducted for
areassociated with an acquired licence, patent, know-how acquired goodwill and intangible assets. Certain intangibles are
or marketing rights are written off to the profit and loss account considered to have anindefinite life and are therefore not
whenincurred. amortised. Such intangibles are subject to annual impairment tests.
Impairment is determined byreference to the higher of net
Brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of
realisable value and value in use, which is measured by reference
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a value
to discounted future cash flows. The value of shares held by the
which is substantial and long-term and where the brands can be
ESOTs is reviewed quarterly to determine if there is any permanent
sold separately from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands
impairment.
areamortised over the estimated useful lives but no longer than
20years, except where the end of the useful economic life of the
Investments in joint ventures and associates
brand cannot be foreseen.
Investments in joint ventures and associated undertakings are
Prior to 1998, acquired minor brands and similar intangibles were carried in the consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share
eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves in the year oftheir net assets at date of acquisition and of their post-
of acquisition. acquisition retained profits or losses together with any goodwill
arising on the acquisition, net of amortisation.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 85
2 Accounting policiescontinued Debt instruments
Debt instruments are stated at the amount of net proceeds
Stocks
adjustedto amortise the issue cost of debt evenly over the term
Stocksare included in the financial statements at the lower of cost
of the debt.
(including manufacturing overheads, where appropriate) and net
realisable value. Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out
3 New accounting policies and future requirements
basis.
The Group has implemented Financial Reporting Standard 19
Taxation ‘Deferred Tax’ in 2002 which requires deferred tax to be accounted
The Group accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated for on a full provision basis, rather than a partial provision basis as
by reason of timing differences which have originated but not before. Comparative information has been restated as necessary.
reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only The effect in 2001 is to increase the business performance tax
recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable charge by £8 million (2000 – £43million) and the overall tax charge
against future taxable profits. Deferred tax on the retained earnings by £6 million (2000 – £48million). The net deferred tax asset at
of overseas subsidiaries is only provided when there is a binding 31st December 2001 has been reduced by £127 million.
commitment to distribute past earnings in future periods.
In June 2002, the Council of the European Union adopted a
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected Regulation requiring listed companies in its Member States to
to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with
to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted. international accounting standards from 2005. The Group has
initiated a project to plan for and implement the conversion from
Current asset investments UKGAAP to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs).
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net The first Annual Report prepared under IFRSs will be that for the
realisable value. year ending 31st December 2005. The first financial results
announcement prepared in accordance with IFRSs will be that for
In the case of securities acquired at a significant premium or
the first quarter of 2005.
discount to maturity value, and intended to be held to redemption,
cost is adjusted to amortise the premium or discount over the life
4 Exchange rates
tomaturity of the security. Floating rate bonds are stated at cost.
Interest income is taken to the profit and loss account on a The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
receivable basis. the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas Group
subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings into sterling
Equity investments are included as current assets when regarded
and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
asavailable for sale.
undertakings. Thecurrencies which most influence these
translations, and the relevant exchange rates, were:
Derivative financial instruments
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments
2002 2001 2000
for trading purposes.
Average rates:
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to £/US$ 1.50 1.44 1.52
market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative £/Euro 1.59 1.61 1.64
instruments are currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and £/Yen 188.00 175.00 163.46
interest rate swaps. The derivative contracts are treated from Period end rates:
inception as an economic hedge of the underlying financial £/US$ 1.61 1.45 1.49
instrument, with matching accounting treatment and cash flows. £/Euro 1.54 1.64 1.61
The derivative contracts have high correlation with the specific £/Yen 192.00 190.00 171.00
financial instrument being hedged both at inception and
throughout the hedge period. Derivative instruments no longer 5 Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
designated as hedges are restated at market value and any future
The combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
changes in value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
was treated as a merger at 27th December 2000 under UK GAAP.
Currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to fix the Under merger accounting, the shares issued by GlaxoSmithKline plc
value of the related asset or liability in the contract currency and to acquire Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were accounted
at the contract rate are accrued to the profit and loss account for at par and no share premium arose; the shares acquired by
over the life of the contract. Gains and losses on foreign exchange GlaxoSmithKline in Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were
contracts designated as hedges of forecast foreign exchange similarly accounted for at the nominal value of the shares issued.
transactions are deferred and included in the measurement of the Inthe consolidated Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline, the
related foreign currency transactions in the period they occur. results and netassets of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
Gains and losses on balance sheet hedges are accrued and are were combined, at their book amounts, subject to alignment
taken directly to reserves, except that forward premium/discounts adjustments.
are recognised as interest over the life of the contracts.
Inview of the proximity of the merger date to the financial year end
Interest differentials under interest swap agreements are recognised date, and the relative insignificance of any business activity between
in the profit and loss account by adjustment ofinterest expense 27th December 2000 and 31st December 2000, the accounting
over the life of the agreement. date of the merger was for practical purposes taken as
31stDecember 2000. The whole of the profit for the financial year
2000 of each of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham plc
wasdeemed to relate to the period prior to the merger date.86 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information
An analysis of turnover, profit before taxation, total assets, net assets and tangible fixed assets by business and geographical sector areset
out below.The business sectors consist of Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines) and Consumer Healthcare (oralcare,
OTC medicines and nutritional healthcare). Thegeographical sectors reflect the Group’s most significant regional markets and are consistent
with the Group’s regional market management reportingstructure. Business sector data includes an allocation of corporate costs to the sector.
There are no sales between business sectors.
The Group’s activities are organised on a global basis. The geographical sector figures are therefore influenced by the location of the
Group’s operating resources, in particular manufacturing and research, and by variations over time in intra-Group trading and funding
arrangements.
2001 2000
2002 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by business sector £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,995 17,205 15,429
Consumer Healthcare 3,217 3,284 2,650
External turnover 21,212 20,489 18,079
Profit before tax by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 5,068 4,302 4,316
Consumer Healthcare 483 432 413
Operating profit 5,551 4,734 4,729
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 75 71 57
Profit on disposal of interest in associate – 96 144
Profit on disposal of businesses 10 – –
Product divestments 11 (296) 1,402
Merger transaction costs – – (121)
Net interest payable (141) (88) (182)
Profit before taxation 5,506 4,517 6,029
Profit before taxation 5,506 4,517 6,029
Taxation (1,461) (1,333) (1,747)
Minority interests (110) (97) (120)
Preference share dividends (20) (34) (56)
Earnings 3,915 3,053 4,106
Total assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 18,608 18,495
Consumer Healthcare 3,719 3,848
Total assets 22,327 22,343
Net assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 5,720 6,573
Consumer Healthcare 1,668 1,679
Net assets 7,388 8,252Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 87
6 Segment informationcontinued
2001 2000
2002 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m
USA 11,096 10,517 8,850
Europe 10,423 10,704 9,970
International 6,824 7,540 5,112
Gross turnover 28,343 28,761 23,932
USA (168) (327) (297)
Europe (3,873) (4,372) (4,294)
International (3,090) (3,573) (1,262)
Inter-segment turnover (7,131) (8,272) (5,853)
USA 10,928 10,190 8,553
Europe 6,550 6,332 5,676
International 3,734 3,967 3,850
External turnover 21,212 20,489 18,079
Turnover by location of customer
USA 10,807 10,087 8,554
Europe 6,064 5,855 5,264
International 4,341 4,547 4,261
External turnover 21,212 20,489 18,079
Profit before tax by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 2,117 934 1,190
Europe 2,490 2,580 2,586
International 944 1,220 953
Operating profit 5,551 4,734 4,729
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 75 71 57
Profit on disposal of interest in associate – 96 144
Profit on disposal of businesses 10 – –
Product divestments 11 (296) 1,402
Merger transaction costs – – (121)
Net interest payable (141) (88) (182)
Profit before taxation 5,506 4,517 6,029
Profit before taxation 5,506 4,517 6,029
Taxation (1,461) (1,333) (1,747)
Minority interests (110) (97) (120)
Preference share dividends (20) (34) (56)
Earnings 3,915 3,053 4,106
Total assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 4,455 5,454
Europe 12,614 10,831
International 2,950 3,927
Total operating assets 20,019 20,212
Cash at bank and liquid investments 2,308 2,131
Total assets 22,327 22,343
Net assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 376 1,232
Europe 7,298 6,524
International 2,049 2,597
Net operating assets 9,723 10,353
Net debt (2,335) (2,101)
Net assets 7,388 8,25288 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment informationcontinued 2002 2001
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
buildings and vehicles software construction Total Total
Tangible fixed assets by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m £m £m £m
USA 680 379 31 322 1,412 1,536
Europe 1,700 1,833 118 553 4,204 4,138
International 524 370 11 128 1,033 1,171
Total 2,904 2,582 160 1,003 6,649 6,845
UK segment
Information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market region, is considered the
Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
2001
2002 (restated) 2000
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,366 1,328 1,151
Gross turnover 4,945 5,388 3,306
Inter-segment turnover (3,230) (3,753) (1,798)
Turnover by location of subsidiary 1,715 1,635 1,508
Operating profit 1,276 1,772 1,665
Total assets 8,846 7,274
Net operating assets 4,910 4,514
7 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses
Manufacturing and other restructuring costs were incurred by GlaxoSmithKline during 2002 and 2001 in implementation of previously
announced plans for restructuring of manufacturing and other activities. These costs were also incurred by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Beecham in 2000.
Merger integration costs relate to the integration of Glaxo Wellcomeand SmithKline Beecham into a unified GlaxoSmithKline business.
These costs include consultancy fees in respect of integration planning, severance costs, asset write-offs, costs related to the early vesting
or lapse of performance conditions on share options and share incentive awards and costs of the programme to encourage staff to convert
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options. Integration costs were incurred in 2002 and
2001 relating to the integration of the Block Drug businesses. These costs include professional fees, severance costs and asset write-offs.
Product divestment income arising in 2002 related to the finalisation of the disposals of Famvir, Kytrilandother products required in 2000
in order to obtain regulatory approval for the merger. Merger transaction costs were incurred in 2000 in order to effect themerger. These
costs comprise the fees and expenses incurred in preparing and implementing the scheme of arrangement for the merger.
The disposal of businesses in 2002 related to the finalisation of the disposals of Clinical Laboratories and Healthcare Services in 1999. The
disposal of businesses in 2001 primarily arose on the sale of Affymax. It included a £299 million write off of goodwill which was previously
eliminated against Group reserves. The disposal of businesses in 2000 relates to the disposal of Healthcare Services in 1999. Restructuring
costs were incurred in Healthcare Services before its disposal.
The share of associate in 2000 related to restructuring costs incurred by Quest Diagnostics.
Restruc- Disposal of
Merger turing Block Drug subsidiaries Total
2002 £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (121) – – (121)
Merger integration costs (851) – – – (851)
Block Drug integration costs – – (60) – (60)
Effect on operating profit (851) (121) (60) – (1,032)
Product divestments 11 – – – 11
Profit on disposal of businesses – – – 10 10
Effect on profit before tax (840) (121) (60) 10 (1,011)
Effect on taxation – operating items 266
Effect on taxation – non-operating items 33
Effect on taxation 299
Effect on earnings (712)Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 89
7 Merger items, restructuring costs and divested businesses continued
Restruc- Disposal of Total
Merger turing Block Drug subsidiaries (restated)
2001 £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (162) – – (162)
Merger integration costs (1,069) – – – (1,069)
Block Drug integration costs – – (125) – (125)
Effect on operating profit (1,069) (162) (125) – (1,356)
Loss on disposal of businesses – – – (296) (296)
Effect on profit before tax (1,069) (162) (125) (296) (1,652)
Effect on taxation – operating items 355
Effect on taxation – non-operating items (33)
Effect on taxation 322
Effect on earnings (1,330)
Restruc- Disposal of Total
Merger turing Associate subsidiaries (restated)
2000 £m £m £m £m £m
Manufacturing and other restructuring – (171) – – (171)
Merger integration costs (400) – – – (400)
Effect on operating profit (400) (171) – – (571)
Share of associate – – (8) – (8)
Product divestments 1,416 – – – 1,416
Merger transaction costs (121) – – – (121)
Loss on disposal of business – – – (14) (14)
Effect on profit before tax 895 (171) (8) (14) 702
Effect on taxation – operating items 120
Effect on taxation – non-operating items (370)
Effect on taxation (250)
Effect on earnings 452
8 Other operating income/(expense)
2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m
Royalties and other income 75 34 43
Other operating expense (209) (126) (58)
(134) (92) (15)
Income from equity investments and other disposals 23 129 289
(111) 37 274
Royalties and other income is principally a core of recurring income in the form of royalties from the out-licensing of intellectual property.
Other operating expense comprises non-recurring costs related to product liability and other claims and other costs in respect of product
withdrawals. Income from equity investments and other disposals arises from equity investment sales and equity investment write-downs
due to adverse market conditions, product and property disposals.90 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
9 Operating profit 2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m
The following items have been charged in operating profit:
Employee costs (Note 33) 4,940 4,686 4,487
Advertising 688 696 652
Distribution costs 281 272 260
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets:
Owned assets 760 758 733
Leased assets 4 3 2
Amortisation of goodwill 12 10 11
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets 60 40 27
Exchange losses on foreign currency deposits/loans – – 3
Operating lease rentals:
Plant and machinery 50 41 44
Land and buildings 61 70 70
Audit fees 6.1 7.2 6.3
Fees to auditors for other work:
Auditors’ UKfirm 5.2 13.1 9.4
Auditors’ overseas firms 9.6 22.6 15.3
Analysis of fees to auditors for other work:
Non-statutory assurance services 1.8 1.6
Tax advisory services 4.2 5.9
Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham 6.0 14.6
Other services 2.8 13.6
Included within audit fees above is a fee of £10,000 (2001 – £10,000, 2000 – £10,000) relating to the company audit of GlaxoSmithKline
plc. Included within fees to auditors for other work are amounts of £6.0 million (2001 – £17.4 million)paid to the auditor’s management
consulting practice, which was sold by them in 2002.
10 Joint ventures and associated undertakings 2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m
Associated undertakings:
Share of profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 94 79 64
Share of losses of other associated undertakings – (1) (1)
Amortisation of goodwill (6) (7) (7)
88 71 56
Share of (losses)/profits of joint ventures (13) – 1
75 71 57
Share of turnover of joint ventures 8 8 8
Sales to joint ventures and associated undertakings 7 11 15
11 Net interest payable 2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m
Interest payable
On bank loans and overdrafts (6) (26) (45)
On other loans (198) (169) (271)
In respect of finance leases (2) (3) (1)
(206) (198) (317)
Share of interest payable of associate (8) (19) (23)
(214) (217) (340)
Investment income
Interest income 71 129 159
Realised gains 2 – –
Provision for market value adjustments – – (1)
73 129 158
(141) (88) (182)Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 91
12 Taxation
2001 2000
2002 (restated) (restated)
Taxation charge based on profits for the period £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 479 838 928
Less double taxation relief (117) (351) (384)
362 487 544
Overseas taxation 1,036 876 1,242
Deferred taxation 29 (53) (55)
1,427 1,310 1,731
Share of taxation charge of associates 34 23 16
1,461 1,333 1,747
2001 2000
Reconciliation of the current taxation rate on Group profits 2002 (restated) (restated)
% % %
UKstatutory rate of taxation 30.0 30.0 30.0
Overseas taxes 0.1 (1.1) 2.2
Average Group tax rate 30.1 28.9 32.2
Effect of special tax status in manufacturing locations (3.9) (3.7) (3.2)
Share option deductions in the USA (0.2) (1.1) (0.8)
Merger and restructuring costs 0.7 5.4 0.2
R&D credits not previously recognised (1.2) (0.9) (1.1)
Other permanent differences (0.8) (0.4) 1.4
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation (0.5) – (0.2)
Intra-Group profit 1.3 1.3 (1.2)
Reversing timing differences on tax losses – (2.5) (0.2)
Other timing differences 2.3 3.9 2.5
Prior year items (2.4) (0.7) –
Current tax rate on ordinary activities 25.4 30.2 29.6
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 0.5 – 0.2
Intra-Group profit (1.3) (1.3) 1.2
Reversing timing differences on tax losses – 2.5 0.2
Other timing differences (2.3) (3.9) (2.5)
Share of associates’ taxation 0.6 0.5 0.3
Prior year items 3.6 1.5 –
Tax rate on ordinary activities 26.5 29.5 29.0
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs to the UKrate. The standard rate of tax for the Group has been estimated by
aggregating the local standard tax rates and weighting these in proportion to accounting profits. Profits arising from manufacturing
operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico and Ireland are taxed at reduced rates. The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge increased
earnings per share by 3.6p in 2002, 2.7p in 2001 and by 3.2p in 2000.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Disagreements with, and
between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods should be transferred between Group
companies in different tax jurisdictions, can produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits that fall to be taxed in
individual territories. Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact-of-life for GlaxoSmithKline.
In the USA, for a number of years, GlaxoSmithKline has had significant open issues relating to transfer pricing. These issues affect all years
from 1989 to the present and concern a number of products, although the most significant relates to the success of Zantac, in respect of
which the claims of the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) substantially exceed the Group’s estimation of its taxation liabilities. The IRS
claims, which are not completely quantified, continue to be the subject of discussions between the US and UK tax authorities under the
competent authority provisions of the double tax convention between the two countries. Within these discussions there is a wide variation
between the views of the US and UK tax authorities and, exceptionally, they may be unable to reach agreement to settle the dispute. In
the event of the UK and US tax authorities not reaching agreement, the matter may have to be resolved by litigation.
GlaxoSmithKline uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues to a
satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the
liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.92 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
12 Taxation continued
Except as shown in these Financial statements, no provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits
retained by overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings, on the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at 31st December 2002
is required in such a way that incremental tax will arise.
At 31st December 2002, the Group had corporate tax losses of approximately £69 million and capital losses estimated to be in excess of
£9 billion which are not recognised as deferred tax assets because there is insufficient evidence that these losses will be used.
Current Deferred Deferred
tax creditor tax debtor tax provision
Tax balances £m £m £m
At 1st January 2002 as previously reported (1,672) 871 –
Prior year adjustment – 426 (553)
At 1st January 2002 as restated (1,672) 1,297 (553)
Exchange adjustments 103 (79) (12)
Charge to profit and loss account (1,398) (15) (14)
Cash paid 1,633 – –
Other movements (115) 170 (163)
At 31st December 2002 (1,449) 1,373 (742)
2001
2002 (restated)
Deferred taxation asset/(liability) £m £m
Accelerated capital allowances (710) (691)
Stock valuation adjustment (113) (113)
Intra-Group profit 487 375
Product and business disposals (125) (161)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 190 298
Tax losses 93 97
Legal and other disputes 124 25
Manufacturing restructuring 52 71
Other net timing differences 633 843
631 744
Of the above categories of provided deferred taxation, stock valuation adjustments, intra-Group profit and other timing differences
arecurrent. All deferred taxation movements arise from the origination and reversal of timing differences.
The Group has implemented the new Financial Reporting Standard, FRS19 ‘Deferred Tax’, in 2002, which requires deferred tax to be
accounted for on a full provision basis rather than a partial provision basis as before. For the full year 2001 the business performance tax
charge is increased by £8 million, and the total tax charge by £6 million. The net deferred tax asset at 31st December 2001 has been
reduced by £127 million.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 93
13 Earnings per share
2001 2000
2002 (restated) (restated)
p p p
Basic earnings per share 66.2 50.3 67.7
Adjustment for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries:
Merger integration and transaction costs 10.8 13.0 6.8
Product divestments – – (16.8)
Restructuring costs 1.5 2.0 2.2
Block Drug integration costs 0.7 1.6 –
Disposal of businesses (0.9) 5.4 0.2
Associates – – 0.1
Adjusted earnings per share 78.3 72.3 60.2
Diluted earnings per share 66.0 49.9 66.9
Basic and adjusted earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average
number ofshares in issue during the period. The numbers used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciledbelow.
To illustrate business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, adjusted earnings and adjusted
earnings per share are presented after excluding merger items, integration and restructuring costs and disposal of businesses.
Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items provides a better comparison of business performance for the periods
presented. Accordingly this information is provided as a supplement to that contained in the consolidated statement of profit and loss
on pages 76 and 77 prepared in accordance with UKGAAP. Basic and diluted earnings per share include these non-recurring items.
Net profit for the period attributable to shareholders £m £m £m
Earnings – basic and diluted 3,915 3,053 4,106
Adjustments for merger items, restructuring costs and disposal of subsidiaries 712 1,330 (452)
Adjusted earnings 4,627 4,383 3,654
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic and adjusted 5,912 6,064 6,065
Dilution for share options 22 52 69
Diluted 5,934 6,116 6,134
Shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOT) are excluded. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares
held by the ESOT’s.94 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
14 Dividends 2002 2001
£m £m
GlaxoSmithKline plc:
First interim 535 546
Second interim 530 546
Third interim 527 546
Fourth interim 754 718
2,346 2,356
2000
£m
Glaxo Wellcome plc:
Interim 538
Second interim 827
Final –
1,365
SmithKline Beecham plc:
First interim 162
Second interim 162
Third interim 163
Fourth interim 245
732
2,097
2002 2001
Dividends per share p p
GlaxoSmithKline plc:
First interim 9 9
Second interim 9 9
Third interim 9 9
Fourth interim 13 12
40 39
2000
p
Glaxo Wellcome plc - per Glaxo Wellcome share:
Interim 15
Second interim 23
Final –
38
The equivalent dividend per GlaxoSmithKline share is the same as the dividend per Glaxo Wellcome share.
SmithKline Beecham plc – per SmithKline Beecham share:
First interim 3.0
Second interim 3.0
Third interim 3.0
Fourth interim 4.5
13.5
SmithKline Beecham plc – equivalent dividend per GlaxoSmithKline share:
First interim 6.59
Second interim 6.59
Third interim 6.59
Fourth interim 9.89
29.66Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 95
15 Goodwill Total
£m
Cost at 1st January 2002 210
Exchange adjustments (17)
Additions (Note 31) 23
Cost at 31st December 2002 216
Amortisation at 1st January 2002 (36)
Exchange adjustments 3
Provision for the year (12)
Amortisation at 31st December 2002 (45)
Net book value at 1st January 2002 174
Net book value at 31st December 2002 171
Licences,
16 Intangible assets patents, etc. Brands Total
£m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2002 597 1,266 1,863
Exchange adjustments (27) (94) (121)
Additions 182 – 182
Acquisition of businesses 4 – 4
Assets written off (44) (10) (54)
Cost at 31st December 2002 712 1,162 1,874
Amortisation at 1st January 2002 (119) – (119)
Exchange adjustments 5 – 5
Provision for the year (60) – (60)
Assets written off 12 – 12
Amortisation at 31st December 2002 (162) – (162)
Impairment at 1st January 2002 (46) (25) (71)
Exchange adjustments (3) 3 –
Impairment loss (4) – (4)
Impairment at 31st December 2002 (53) (22) (75)
Net book value at 1st January 2002 432 1,241 1,673
Net book value at 31st December 2002 497 1,140 1,637
The licences and patents acquired in the year relate to the acquisition of various compound rights and other research based agreements
(see Note 26).
Brands largely comprise a portfolio of Sterling products such as Panadol, Solpadeineand Hedex and the Block Drug products such as
Sensodyne, Polidentand Poligrip. Each of these is considered to have an indefinite life given the strength and durability of the brand and
the level of marketing support. Accordingly, they are not amortised. Thevaluation of each Sterling brand is reviewed annually using a
10 year cash flow forecast as this was the basis for the original independent assessment when they were acquired in 1994 and a post-tax
discount rate of eight per cent. The valuation of each Block Drug brand is also reviewed annually using a five year cash flow forecast and
a post-tax discount rate of eight per cent.96 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
17 Tangible fixed assets buildings and vehicles software construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2002 3,903 6,821 300 1,212 12,236
Exchange adjustments (154) (207) (5) (48) (414)
Additions 68 350 36 573 1,027
Acquisitions 5 7 – 1 13
Disposals (69) (387) (8) (15) (479)
Reclassifications 557 130 9 (696) –
Cost at 31st December 2002 4,310 6,714 332 1,027 12,383
Depreciation at 1st January 2002 (1,011) (4,002) (95) – (5,108)
Exchange adjustments 41 129 3 – 173
Provision for the year (155) (555) (54) – (764)
Disposals 9 305 5 – 319
Reclassifications (142) 173 (31) – –
Depreciation at 31st December 2002 (1,258) (3,950) (172) – (5,380)
Impairment at 1st January 2002 (147) (112) – (24) (283)
Exchange 12 7 – – 19
Impairment loss (29) (73) – – (102)
Disposals 11 1 – – 12
Reclassifications 5 (5) – – –
Impairment at 31st December 2002 (148) (182) – (24) (354)
Net book value at 1st January 2002 2,745 2,707 205 1,188 6,845
Net book value at 31st December 2002 2,904 2,582 160 1,003 6,649
The net book value at 31st December 2002 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £2,699 million
(at 1st January 2002 – £2,516million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £135million (at 1st January 2002 – £157million) and
properties with leases of less than 50 years £70 million (at 1stJanuary 2002 – £72million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at
31st December 2002 are leased assets with a cost of £6 million (at 1st January 2002 – £23 million), accumulated depreciation of £4 million
(at 1st January 2002 – £14 million) and a net book value of £2 million (at 1st January 2002 – £9 million).
The impairment loss principally relates to reductions in forecast cash flows resulting from decisions to close manufacturing facilities
andhasbeen measured by reference to value in use, typically using a discount rate of eight per cent.
Joint Associated Equity Own
18 Fixed asset investments ventures undertakings investments shares Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2002 32 127 133 2,936 3,228
Exchange adjustments (2) (15) (16) – (33)
Additions – 5 39 – 44
Charge for the year – – – (51) (51)
Impairment – – (19) – (19)
Transfers – (5) (8) – (13)
Disposals – – (4) (59) (63)
Retained profit for the year (13) 47 – – 34
Goodwill amortisation – (6) – – (6)
At 31st December 2002 17 153 125 2,826 3,121
Investments in joint ventures comprise £19 million share of gross assets (2001 – £33 million) and £2 million share of gross liabilities (2001 – £1 million).
The principal associated undertaking is Quest Diagnostics, Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The investment has a book value at 31st December 2002 of £129 million (2001 – £98 million) and a market value of £782 million
(2001 – £1,094 million).At 31st December 2002, the Group owned 23percent of Quest (2001 – 23 per cent). This holding was reduced
to 21 per cent in February 2003 following Quest’s acquisition of Unilab Corporation. The book value includes goodwill which is being
amortised over 20 years; the amortisation charge for 2002 was £6 million. The goodwill at 31st December 2002 amounts to £101 million
(2001 – £118 million). Goodwill of £115million which relates to the continuing Group interest in Clinical Laboratories assets attributed to
Quest, remains eliminated against Group reserves.
Equity investments comprise listed investments of £7 million (2001 – £8 million) and unlisted investments of £118 million
(2001 – £125 million). The market value of listed investments was £11 million (2001 – £8 million).
Investments in own shares consist of shares held by Employee Share Ownership Trusts (see Note 34). The market value of own shares at
31st December 2002 was £2,161 million (2001 – £3,229 million). This valuation shortfall is not considered to represent a permanent
diminution in value in the context of the length of the future period over which the related share options may be exercised. Accordingly
no provision has been made.Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 97
19 Equity investments
Total
£m
At 1st January 2002 185
Exchange adjustments (4)
Additions 43
Transfer from fixed asset investments 6
Impairment (55)
Disposals (14)
At 31st December 2002 161
Equity investments include listed investments of £125 million (2001 – £185 million). Themarket value of listed investments was
£232 million (2001 – £531 million).
20 Stocks 2002 2001
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 508 565
Work in progress 673 808
Finished goods 899 717
2,080 2,090
21 Debtors 2001
2002 (restated)
£m £m
Amounts due within one year
Trade debtors 3,515 3,628
Other debtors 569 575
Prepaid pension contributions 257 11
Other prepayments and accrued income 178 177
Amounts due after one year
Other debtors 294 320
Prepayments and accrued income 14 9
Deferred taxation (Note 12) 1,373 1,297
6,200 6,017
Debtors include trading balances of £nil (2001 – £2million) due from joint ventures and associated undertakings.
22 Other creditors 2002 2001
£m £m
Amounts due within one year
Trade creditors 715 760
Taxation (Note 12) 1,449 1,672
Social security 87 123
Other creditors 429 345
Accruals and deferred income 3,285 3,142
Dividends payable 1,292 1,264
7,257 7,306
Amounts due after one year
Other creditors 113 58
Accruals and deferred income 93 132
206 190
Accruals include obligations for wages and salaries of £557 million (2001 – £617 million).98 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
23 Provisions for Pensions and other Legal
post-retirement Manufacturing Merger and other Deferred Other
liabilities and charges benefits restructuring integration disputes taxation provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2002 as previously reported 1,022 126 240 227 – 195 1,810
Prior year adjustment (Note 12) – – – – 553 – 553
At 1st January 2002 as restated 1,022 126 240 227 553 195 2,363
Exchange adjustments (69) (2) (8) (44) 12 (12) (123)
Charge for the year 198 32 379 304 14 4 931
Applied (335) (52) (203) (72) – (17) (679)
Reclassifications and other movements 105 (1) (5) 92 163 (13) 341
At 31st December 2002 921 103 403 507 742 157 2,833
In December 2002, the Group made special cash contributions totalling £320 million into the UK, US and German pension schemes. The
contributions relating to the US and German pension schemes are included within the amounts applied to the provision above; the
contribution relating to the UK pension scheme has increased the prepayment amount shown under debtors in Note 21.
The Group has recognised costs in 2002 in respect of plans for manufacturing and other restructuring initiated in 1998, 1999 and in 2001
following the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham and acquisition of Block Drug. These plans are largely to be completed
during 2003. Costs recognised as a provision, principally in respect of identified severances at sites where it has been announced that
manufacturing activities will cease, are expected to be incurred mainly in 2003. Costs of asset write-downs have been recognised as an
impairment of fixed assets.
The Group has recognised costs in 2001 and 2002 in respect of plans for the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
businesses. Additional costs will be incurred as implementation of the integration following the merger continues. Costs recognised as a
provision in respect of identified severances are expected to be incurred in 2003, and in respect of the programme to encourage staff to
convert Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options when employees exercise these options.
Provisions for legal and other disputes and other matters include amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability, contract terminations,
self-insurance, environmental clean-up and property rental. The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have established provisions
after taking into account insurance and other agreements and having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances of each matter and in
accordance with accounting requirements. No provisions have been made for unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may
vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement
negotiations.
GlaxoSmithKline is involved in a number of legal and other disputes (including notification of possible claims) where, because of the early
stage of the matter, no reliable estimate of the outcome can be made. Accordingly no provision has been recorded for these matters or
any unasserted claims.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over several
years. The largest individual amounts provided are expected to be settled within two years.
For a discussion of litigation issues, refer to ‘Legal proceedings’ in Note 30.
24 Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of business, amounted at
31st December 2002 to £138million (2001 – £90 million).Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 99
25 Net debt 2002 2001
£m £m
Liquid investments 1,256 1,415
Cash at bank 1,052 716
2,308 2,131
Loans and overdrafts due within one year:
Bank loans and overdrafts (263) (307)
Commercial paper (1,284) (1,269)
Eurobonds and Medium-Term notes – (542)
Obligations under finance leases (1) (2)
Other loans (3) (4)
(1,551) (2,124)
Loans due after one year:
Bank loans (3) (11)
Eurobonds, Medium-Term notes and private financing (3,054) (2,059)
Loan Stock (14) (16)
Obligations under finance leases (12) (12)
Other loans (9) (10)
(3,092) (2,108)
Net debt (2,335) (2,101)
At the balance sheet date the Group’s liquid investments had an aggregate market value of £1,264 million (2001 – £1,418million).
Loans and overdrafts due within one year
Commercial paper comprises a US$10 billion programme, of which £1,284million was in issue at 31st December 2002 (at 31st December
2001 – £1,269 million), backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of £872 million, renewable annually, and liquid investments
of £787 million.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31st December 2002 was 1.3per cent.
Loans due after one year
In 2002, a £500 million, 4.875 per cent coupon bond and two, USdollar denominated, floating rate bonds totalling $495 million were
issued under the European Medium Term Note programme. The Group also raised $500 million of floating rate debt through a private
financing arrangement. This may be redeemed by the Group at any time and, in particular, in the event of any accelerating event that
would increase the cost of funding for the Group.
Loans due after one year are repayable over various periods as follows:
2002 2001
£m £m
Between one and two years 423 11
Between two and three years 563 116
Between three and four years 311 140
Between four and five years 2 843
After five years 1,793 998
3,092 2,108
The loans repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 4.9 per cent and 5.3 per cent. The repayment dates range from
2008 to 2033.100 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
25 Net debt continued
Secured loans
Loans amounting to £13 million (2001 – £13 million) are secured by charges on fixed and current assets.
2002 2001
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 1 2
Rental payments due between one and two years 2 2
Rental payments due between two and three years 1 1
Rental payments due between three and four years 1 1
Rental payments due between four and five years 1 1
Rental payments due after five years 7 7
Total finance lease obligations 13 14
Financial instruments
Further information is given in Note 32.
26 Commitments
2002 2001
Capital commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements
Intangible fixed assets 1,410 1,103
Tangible fixed assets 382 298
1,792 1,401
A number of commitments were made in 2002 under licensing and other agreements, principally with elbion AG, Adolor Corporation,
Theravance, Inc. and Unigene Laboratories, Inc. Payments become due if future ‘milestones’ are achieved. As some of these agreements
relate to compounds in the early stages of development, milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the compounds move
successfully through the development process. Generally the closer the product is to marketing approval the greater the possibility of
success.
The Group also has other commitments of £162 million relating to other payments to be made under licences and other alliances,
principally to Exelixis Inc.
2002 2001
Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals for the next year £m £m
Operating leases on land and buildings which expire:
In one year or less 10 5
Between one and five years 47 18
After five years 56 51
113 74
Operating leases on plant, equipment and vehicles which expire:
In one year or less 7 4
Between one and five years 47 27
After five years 1 –
55 31
Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals in future years
2003 168 105
2004 97 89
2005 80 79
2006 59 69
2007 49 59
2008 and thereafter 249 241
702 642Notes to the financial statements GlaxoSmithKline 101
Share
27 Share capital and share premium account Redeemable preference shares of £1 each Ordinary Shares of 25p each p are ccm oi uu nm t
Number £m Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2001 – – 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2002 – – 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2001 50,000 – 6,225,662,174 1,556 30
Share capital redeemed at par (50,000) – – – –
Share capital issued under share option schemes – – 17,878,815 4 140
Share capital purchased and cancelled – – (70,575,000) (17) –
At 31st December 2001 – – 6,172,965,989 1,543 170
Share capital issued under share option schemes – – 7,049,394 2 54
Share capital purchased and cancelled – – (155,749,038) (39) –
At 31st December 2002 – – 6,024,266,345 1,506 224
Number (000)
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options (Note 34)
At 31st December 2001 155,078
At 31st December 2002 217,953
Number of unissued shares not under option
At 31st December 2001 3,671,956
At 31st December 2002 3,757,781
The redeemable preference shares were redeemed by the company on 31st August 2001.The nominal amount of these redeemable
preference shares was converted into 200,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each resulting in authorised share capital at
31st December 2001 of 10 billion ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
In October 2002, GlaxoSmithKline commenced a new £4 billion share buy-back programme. This follows the completion of the £4 billion
buy-back programme announced in 2001. A total of £2,220 millionwas spent in 2002 of which £219 million relates to the new buy-back
programme. The exact amount and timing of future purchases will be determined by the Group and is dependent on market conditions
and other factors. In the period 1st January 2003 to 3rd March 2003 a further 9,350,000 shares had been purchased and cancelled at a
cost of £105 million.
For details of substantial shareholdings refer to ‘Substantial shareholdings’ on page 155.
28 Non-equity minority interests
SmithKline Beecham Holdings Corporation (SBH Corp), a subsidiary incorporated in Delaware, USA, has in issue $500 million of Flexible
Auction Market Preferred Stock (Flex AMPS), comprising 5,000 shares of $100,000 each, issued in six series. The dividend on half of these
shares was fixed on issuance in 1996 for a seven year period. The dividend on the other half was fixed for a five year period which ended
during 2001 and now varies, predominately with prevailing interest rates, and is set every seven weeks at an auction at which the shares
are also traded.
SBH Corp also has in issue $400 million of Auction Rate Preference Stock (ARPS), comprising 4,000 shares of $100,000 each, issued in
five series, the dividend on which also varies under conditions similar to the Flex AMPS described above.
Together, the ARPS and the Flex AMPS constitute the preference shares, which represent the non-equity minority interest.
SmithKline Beecham plc has, in certain circumstances, guaranteed payment of dividends declared on the preference shares. SmithKline
Beecham plc has also agreed with SBH Corp that in certain circumstances it will provide support to SBH Corp in relation to the principal.
However, any guarantee or support is limited so that in no circumstances could the holder of preference shares be in a more favourable
position than had they been a holder of a preference share in SmithKline Beecham plc. The preference shares represent a long-term
non-equity minority interest in the Group balance sheet in accordance with FRS 4 ‘Capital Instruments’ and UITF 33 ‘Obligations in capital
instruments’.102 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
Profit and
Other loss account Total
29 Reserves reserves (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
At 31st December 1999 1,701 2,141 3,842
Goodwill written back – 2 2
Exchange movements – (23) (23)
UK tax on exchange movements – 16 16
Shares issued 148 – 148
Profit attributable to shareholders – 4,106 4,106
Dividends – (2,097) (2,097)
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – 10 10
At 31st December 2000 1,849 4,155 6,004
Goodwill written back – 356 356
Exchange movements – (151) (151)
Shares purchased for cancellation 17 (1,274) (1,257)
Profit attributable to shareholders – 3,053 3,053
Dividends – (2,356) (2,356)
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange – 28 28
At 31st December 2001 1,866 3,811 5,677
Exchange movements – (154) (154)
UKtax on exchange movements – (67) (67)
Shares purchased for cancellation 39 (2,220) (2,181)
Profit attributable to shareholders – 3,915 3,915
Dividends – (2,346) (2,346)
Unrealised gains on equity investments – 7 7
At 31st December 2002 1,905 2,946 4,851
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1st January 1998 which has been written off against other reserves amounts to £6,180million,
including goodwill of £4,840 million previously held as a goodwill reserve which was offset against other reserves in 1998. The goodwill
written back in 2001 relates primarily to the disposals of Affymax and part of the Group’s holding in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. Goodwill
denominated in local currencies which is subject to revaluation amounted to £293 million at 31st December 2002.
Goodwill on acquisitions after 1st January 1998 has been capitalised, in accordance with the accounting policy set out in Note 2.
Exchange movements taken to reserves in 2002 include losses of £1,251 million (2001 – losses £114 million, 2000 – losses £84 million)
on foreign currency loans less deposits, gains of £1,097 million (2001 – losses £9 million, 2000 – gains £71 million) on the retranslation
of net assets and £nil (2001 – losses £28 million, 2000 – losses £10 million) on goodwill eliminated against reserves.
The UK tax on exchange movements in the year of £67 million (2001 – £nil, 2000 – £16 million credit) relates to the UK taxable element
of the foreign currency loans less deposits taken to reserves.
Exchange adjustments debited to reserves cumulatively amount to £1,452 million.
Other reserves include the merger reserve created on the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham amounting to £1,561 million
at 31st December 2002 (2001 – £1,561 million; 2000 – £1,561 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created
as a result of the share buy-back programme amounting to £56 million at 31st December 2002 (2001 – £17 million, 2000 – £nil).
Total reserves amounted to £4,851 million at 31st December 2002 (2001 – £5,677 million, 2000 – £6,004 million), of which £10,879
million (2001 – £718 million; 2000 – £nil) relates to the company and £76 million (2001 – £61 million, 2000 – £28million) relates to joint
ventures and associated undertakings.
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £10,598 million (2001 –£4,331 million, 6th December 1999 to 31st December 2000 –
£nil), which after dividends of £2,352 million (2001 – £2,356 million, 6th December 1999 to 31st December 2000 – £nil), gave a retained
profit of £8,246 million (2001 – £1,975 million, 6th December 1999 to 31st December 2000 – £nil). After the cost of shares purchased for
cancellation of £2,220 million (2001 – £1,274 million, 6th December 1999 to 31st December 2000 – £nil) and an unrealised profit on
capital reduction by subsidiary of £4,096 million (2001 – £nil, 6th December 1999 to 31st December 2000 – £nil), the profit and loss
account reserve at 31st December 2002 stood at £10,823 million (2001 – £701 million, 2000 - £nil).Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 103
30 Legal proceedings Even if the FDA were to approve the Pentech ANDA,
GlaxoSmithKline believes that the Pentech capsule would not be
The Group is involved in various legal and administrative
substitutable for Paxiltablets.
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property,
antitrust, and governmental investigations and related private In October 2000 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Synthon
litigation. The most significant of these matters are described below. Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the Middle District of
North Carolina for infringement of the Group’s patents for
Intellectual property
paroxetine hydrochloride and paroxetine mesylate. Synthon had
In the USA a number of distributors of generic drugs have filed
filed a 505(b)(2) application (a ‘paper NDA’) with the FDA using
applications with the FDA to market generic versions of
paroxetine mesylate, a different salt form of paroxetine than that
Paxil/Seroxat(paroxetine hydrochloride) prior to the expiration in
used in the marketed form of Paxil. Even if the FDA approves the
2006 of the Group’s patent on paroxetine hydrochloride
Synthon application, GlaxoSmithKline believes the Synthon
hemihydrate. The distributors are looking to bring to market
compound would not be substitutable for Paxil. Briefing on
anhydrate or other versions of paroxetine hydrochloride and in one
summary judgement motions filed by the parties has been
case paroxetine mesylate. The cases are complex but the Group
completed and those motions remain pending. No trial date has
believes that the generic anhydrate and other versions infringe
been set. The Hatch-Waxman stay on FDA approval of the Synthon
because they contain and/or convert to the hemihydrate form
application expires in April 2003.
and/or infringe other Group patents. In response the Group has
filed actions against all those distributors for infringement of Following the expiration of the data exclusivity period in Europe, a
various of the Group’s patents. marketing authorisation was issued to Synthon BV/Genthon in
October 2000 by regulatory authorities in Denmark for paroxetine
In July 1998 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Apotex in the
mesylate, a different salt form of paroxetine than that used in the
US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois for infringement
marketed form of Seroxat/Paxil. Marketing authorisations have since
of the Group’s patent for paroxetine hydrochloride hemihydrate.
been granted in nine other European countries, one further national
Apotex had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA)
approval and eight approvals under the Mutual Recognition process
with the FDA seeking approval to introduce a generic form of Paxil.
based on the original Danish approval. Generic products containing
Following a trial in February 2003 the judge ruled that
paroxetine mesylate have been launched in Denmark, Germany,
GlaxoSmithKline’s patent is valid but not infringed by Apotex’s
The Netherlands, Austria, Ireland, Sweden and Italy, although the
product. GlaxoSmithKline is appealing the ruling of non-
product in Austria and Denmark has been withdrawn following the
infringement to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
award of patent interim injunctions. The Group has initiated
(CAFC), which hears all appeals from USDistrict Courts on
litigation challenging the approval by the Danish Medicines Agency
intellectual property matters.
on grounds that an authorisation should not have been granted
In June 1999 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Geneva under the abridged procedure as paroxetine mesylate is not
Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Novartis Pharmaceuticals, in the essentially similar to Seroxat. Marketing authorisations have also
US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for been issued in eleven European countries for products containing
infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine hydrochloride paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate, another variant of the Group’s
following notice of Geneva’s ANDA filing. That case has been product. Generic products containing the anhydrate are now on the
consolidated with similar infringement actions against other market in Germany, Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands, Spain,
generic companies that subsequently filed ANDAs. Additional Sweden and Finland. GlaxoSmithKline believes that marketing of
infringement actions have been brought based on patents issued either a paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate product or a paroxetine
subsequent to the original filing against Apotex in the Northern mesylate product by third parties in European countries infringes its
District of Illinois. The Group also filed an action against Apotex patents and is litigating its position in actions in many European and
relating to those new patents in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. other countries outside the USA. In June 2002 the European Patent
In December 2002 the judge granted in part and denied in part Office Opposition Division rejected an opposition filed by Synthon
summary judgement motions filed by Apotex with the result that against the Group’s European patent covering a crystal form of
issues of validity and infringement of three of the four new patents paroxetine mesylate that is used in Synthon’s product. That decision
will move toward trial. GlaxoSmithKline has petitioned the District is under appeal. In contrast, following an action initiated by
Court to permit an interim appeal to the CAFC. The last to expire Synthon, a UK court revoked the corresponding UK patent relating
Hatch-Waxman stay on FDA approval of the Apotex ANDA expires to paroxetine mesylate in December 2002. An appeal before the
in September 2003. Court of Appeal is expected to commence in May 2003. In
February 2003 the Dutch court revoked the corresponding Dutch
In February 2003 the CAFC heard Apotex’s appeal from a decision
patent which decision will also be appealed.
by the US District Court for the District of Columbia denying
Apotex’s request that the FDA be required to delist certain of the In response to a challenge by BASF to the Group’s UK patent for
Group’s patents for Paxilfrom the Orange Book. The CAFC has not paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate in the UK High Court in
yet ruled on that matter. In addition, Apotex has applied to the July 2002 the Judge decided that the patent was partly valid and
court in the litigation in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for an partly invalid. The claims held valid were asserted against Apotex,
order that GlaxoSmithKline delist certain patents. Neolab and Waymade Healthcare and an interim injunction
preventing sale of their version of the product was granted in
In March 2000 GlaxoSmithKline filed an action against Pentech
November 2002. The decision granting the injunction was affirmed
Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the Northern District of
on appeal in early February 2003. A full trial relating to both alleged
Illinois for infringement of the Group’s patents for paroxetine
infringement and alleged invalidity will take place in June 2003.
hydrochloride. Pentech filed an ANDA for a capsule version of Paxil,
asserting that its compound and presentation do not infringe the
Group’s patents or that the patents are invalid.104 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
30 Legal proceedings continued The 30-month Hatch-Waxman stay on final FDA approval expires
April 2003 but final FDA approval may also be held up in view of
In May 2001 Geneva Pharmaceuticals commenced an action in the
rights to a 180 day marketing exclusivity that may be held by
US District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia over four
Andrx.
patents recently issued to GlaxoSmithKline covering clavulanic acid,
a key ingredient in Augmentinand Timentin. Geneva asked the The Group filed an action for infringement of its patents for
court to declare the new patents, which expire in 2017 and 2018, cefuroxime axetil, the active ingredient in the Group’s Ceftinanti-
invalid. In August 2001 Geneva extended its complaint to cover infective product, against Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals in the US District
three additional patents which expired in 2002. In September 2001 Court for New Jersey. A preliminary injunction was granted in
Teva Pharmaceuticals filed a similar action challenging the four favour of the Group but the CAFC subsequently vacated that
recently issued patents and a patent expiring in December 2002 injunction and remanded the case to the District Court for a full
that cover Augmentin. In December 2001 Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals trial on the merits. Thereafter Ranbaxy launched its generic version
filed a further action challenging the four patents expiring in 2017 in March 2002. The trial is scheduled to begin 8th July 2003. Since
and 2018. The Ranbaxy and Teva actions were consolidated with the patent as to which the Group claims infringement expires in
the Geneva case. At December 2001 and March 2002 hearings on May 2003, the Group now seeks monetary damages based on
Teva’s motions for summary judgement the trial judge held that the Ranbaxy’s sales. The Group has filed a similar action against Apotex,
Group’s patents expiring in 2017 and 2018 were invalid. At the a second distributor of generic pharmaceutical products, in the US
consolidated trial in May 2002, the same judge ruled that the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. A preliminary
patents expiring in 2002 were invalid. The FDA has granted injunction was granted in favour of the Group in June 2002. Apotex
approval to all three companies and Lek Pharmaceuticals for their subsequently obtained FDA approval for their generic product. The
generic products and all four are now marketed in the USA. The full trial with Apotex was concluded in January 2003, but as at the
Group continues to believe that its patents are valid and appealed date of this report no decision had been announced.
the District Court decisions to the CAFC. The hearing on the appeal
In August 2001 the Group commenced an action in the US District
was heard on 5th March 2003 but as of the date of this report the
Court for the District of New Jersey against Reddy-Cheminor and
CAFC had not yet ruled on the appeal.
Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, alleging infringement of three patents for
In August 2002 the Group commenced proceedings against ondansetron, the active ingredient in Zofrantablets. FDA approval
Geneva Pharmaceuticals and its parent Novartis AG, Biochemie of the ANDA filed by Reddy is stayed until the earlier of January
GmbH and Biochemie SpA before the US International Trade 2004 or resolution of the patent infringement litigation. In March
Commission and in Colorado state court, alleging that the 2002 the Group filed a similar action against Teva, which alleged
manufacture and sale in the USA of Geneva’s genericAugmentin invalidity or non-infringement of two method of use patents but
product using a production strain stolen earlier from not the compound patent expiring in 2005, in the US District Court
GlaxoSmithKline constitutes misappropriation of the Group’s trade for the District of Delaware. A trial date of 19th November 2003
secrets and unfair competition. Both proceedings seek to prevent has been set for the Teva case. A third ondansetron case, involving
the importation and sale in the USA of generic Augmentin orally disintegrating Zofran tablets, was commenced in February
containing clavulanate made using the stolen GlaxoSmithKline 2003 against Kali Laboratories in the US District Court for the
production strain; the Colorado action seeks damages as well. District of New Jersey.
Similar state court actions have been initiated against Teva, Lek
In August 2002 the Group commenced an action in the US District
and Ranbaxy.
Court for the District of New Jersey against Teva, alleging
Five distributors of generic pharmaceutical products have filed infringement of the Group’s compound patent for lamotrigine, the
ANDAs for sustained release bupropion hydrochloride tablets active ingredient in Lamictaloral tablets. That patent expires in July
(Wellbutrin SRand Zyban) in the USA, accompanied in each case 2008. The defendant has filed an ANDA with the FDA with a
with a certification of invalidity of the Group’s patents. The Group certification of invalidity of the Group’s patent. FDA approval of
has brought suit for patent infringement against each of the filing that ANDA is stayed until the earlier of January 2005 or resolution
parties. The Group filed suit against Andrx Pharmaceuticals, the first of the patent infringement litigation. The case is in its early stages.
to file an ANDA, in the US District Court for the Southern District of
In October 2002 Pfizer Inc. filed an action against Bayer AG and
Florida. In February 2002 the District Court Judge granted Andrx’s
GlaxoSmithKline in the US District Court for the District of
summary judgement motion and ruled that its product does not
Delaware, alleging that the manufacture and sale of Levitra
infringe the Group’s patents. The Group has appealed that decision
(vardenafil) would infringe a patent newly issued to Pfizer and
to the CAFC. The oral argument on the appeal was held in
asking that Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline be permanently enjoined.
December 2002 but as of the date of this report the CAFC has not
The case is in its early stages.
ruled on the appeal. Actions have also been filed against Watson
Pharmaceuticals in the US District Court for the Southern District of In January 2003 Cipla and Neolab filed an action in the UK High
Ohio, Eon Labs Manufacturing in the US District Court for the Court, seeking revocation of one of the Group’s patents relating to
Southern District of New York, Impax Laboratories in the US District the asthma treatment Seretide/Advair. This patent, set to expire in
Court for the Northern District of California and Excel 2013, including supplementary protection certificate protection,
Pharmaceuticals in both the US District Court for the District of New relates to the combination of the active ingredients, salmeterol
Jersey and the US District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. and fluticasone propionate, on which separate patents exist (which
The Watson case has been settled. Judges granted summary have not been challenged), providing patent protection in the UK
judgement of non-infringement in the Impax and Excel cases, both until late 2005. Several other UK Seretide patents, for example
of which are on appeal to the CAFC. Summary judgement was those relating to the Diskusdevice and the CFC-free MDI device
denied to Eon. On Eon’s motion for reconsideration, the judge which expire in 2011 and 2012 respectively, have not been
confirmed denial of the summary judgement. No trial date has yet challenged. There has been no challenge to the Group’s patents
been set in the Eon case. At this point Eon is the only distributor relating to Seretide/Advairin the USA or in other countries.
with tentative FDA approval for its generic version of the product.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 105
30 Legal proceedings continued Following a report from the Yale Haemorrhagic Stroke Project that
found a suggestion of an association between first use of
In February 2003 the Group received a paragraph iv notification of
phenylpropanolamine (‘PPA’) decongestant and haemorrhagic
non-infringement of a patent relating to film coating forImitrex
stroke, the Group and most other manufacturers voluntarily
(sumatriptan) in connection with an ANDA filing by Ranbaxy with
withdrew consumer healthcare products in which PPA was an active
respect to Imitrex. The paragraph iv notification does not extend to
ingredient. Since the PPA product withdrawal the Group has been
the basic US patents for the product which expire in 2006 and
named as a defendant in numerous personal injury and class action
2008.
lawsuits filed in state and federal courts alleging personal injury or
In February 2003 the FDA website posted receipt by the agency of increased risk of injury from use of products containing PPA and
an ANDA filing with respect to Valtrex. As of the date of this report unfair and deceptive business practices. Plaintiffs seek remedies
the Group has not yet received notice of a paragraph iv notification including compensatory and punitive damages and refunds. The
of invalidity and/or non-infringement with respect to that product. federal cases have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation
The Group’s US patent on the active ingredient in Valtrex proceeding in the US District Court for the District of Washington.
(valaciclovir) expires in 2009. The judge responsible for those proceedings initially denied class
certification and struck all class allegations in the federal personal
Product liability injury and consumer refund class actions but granted plaintiffs leave
In 1997 the FDA became aware of reports of cardiac valvular to file a renewed motion to certify a consumer refund class
problems in individuals for whom fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine consisting of persons possessing PPA-containing products at the
alone or in combination of phentermine was prescribed as part of time of an FDA advisory in November 2000. Subsequently, the
a regimen of weight reduction and requested the voluntary judge denied that renewed motion. The lawsuits are in their early
withdrawal of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine from the market. stages and there has been no final determination as to whether any
The reports of cardiac valvular problems and the subsequent of the lawsuits filed in state courts will be permitted to proceed as
withdrawal of those products from the market spawned numerous class actions. Class certification has been denied in California state
product liability lawsuits filed against the manufacturers and court and is on appeal; a motion for class certification is still
distributors of fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine and phentermine. pending in Pennsylvania state court.
As one of a number of manufacturers of phentermine, the Group
In August 2001 Bayer AG withdrew Baycol(cerivastatin sodium)
is a defendant in thousands of lawsuits in various state and federal
worldwide in light of reports of adverse events, including deaths,
district courts in the USA, many of which have been filed as class
involving rhabdomyolosis. GlaxoSmithKline had participated in the
actions. Most of the lawsuits seek relief including some combination
marketing of Baycol in the USA pursuant to a co-promotion
of compensatory and punitive damages, medical monitoring and
agreement with Bayer which was the license holder and
refunds for purchases of drugs. In 1997 the Judicial Panel on
manufacturer of the product. Following the withdrawal, Bayer and
Multidistrict Litigation issued an order consolidating and transferring
GlaxoSmithKline have been named as defendants in thousands of
all federal actions to the District Court for the Eastern District of
lawsuits filed in state and federal courts in the USA on behalf of
Pennsylvania. That court approved a global settlement proposed by
both individuals and putative classes of former Baycolusers. A
defendant Wyeth, which sold fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine.
number of the suits allege that the plaintiffs have suffered personal
The settlement, subsequently confirmed by the Third Circuit Court
injuries, including rhabdomyolosis, from the use of Baycol. Others
of Appeals, does not include any of the phentermine defendants,
claim that persons who took Baycol, although not injured, may be
including the Group. Individual plaintiffs may elect to opt out of the
at risk of future injury or may have suffered economic damages
class settlement and pursue their claims individually. Wyeth
from purchasing and using Baycol. Plaintiffs seek remedies including
continues to settle individual state court cases before trial and the
compensatory, punitive and statutory damages and creation of
Group continues to be dismissed from lawsuits as they are settled
funds for medical monitoring. GlaxoSmithKline and Bayer
by Wyeth.
Corporation, the principal US subsidiary of Bayer AG, have signed
GlaxoSmithKline has received purported class action lawsuits filed an allocation agreement under which Bayer Corporation has agreed
in state and federal courts in the USA alleging that paroxetine to pay 95 per cent of all settlements and compensatory damages
(the active ingredient in Paxil) is addictive and causes dependency judgements with each party retaining responsibility for its own
and withdrawal reactions. Plaintiffs seek remedies including attorneys’ fees and any punitive damages. The federal cases have
compensatory, punitive and statutory damages and the cost of a been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the US
fund for medical monitoring. In January 2003 a federal district District Court for the District of Minnesota. Most of the lawsuits are
court judge in California denied class action certification although in their early stages and there has been no determination as to
permitting counsel for the plaintiffs to file one more motion for whether any of the lawsuits to which the Group is a party will be
certification. Most of the remaining lawsuits are in their early permitted to proceed as class actions.
stages and there has been no determination as to whether any of
GlaxoSmithKline, along with a number of other pharmaceutical
the lawsuits pending in state or federal courts elsewhere will be
companies, has been named as a defendant in a number of
permitted to proceed as class actions.
purported class action and numerous individual personal injury
In the last decade there has been litigation against the lawsuits in state and federal district courts in the USA alleging that
manufacturers of Prozac and other sustained serotonin reuptake thimerosal, a preservative used in vaccines, causes
inhibitor (SSRI) products such as Paxil for homicidal or suicidal neurodevelopmental disorders and other injuries. Plaintiffs seek
behaviour exhibited by users of their products. The Group has remedies including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages
received some such claims and lawsuits with respect to Paxil. and the cost of a fund for medical monitoring and research. The
None of these are or purport to be class actions. lawsuits are in their very early stages and there has been no
determination as to whether any of the purported class actions will
be permitted to proceed as class actions.106 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
30 Legal proceedings continued Antitrust
In November 2000 the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) staff
Following the voluntary withdrawal of Lotronex in the USA in
advised the Group that the staff was conducting a non-public
November 2000 a number of lawsuits have been filed against the
investigation to determine whether the Group was violating
Group in state and federal district courts, including individual
Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by ‘monopolizing
personal injury actions and purported class actions asserting
or attempting to monopolize’ the market for paroxetine
product liability and consumer fraud claims. Plaintiffs seek remedies
hydrochloride by preventing generic competition to Paxil and
including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages. A
requested the Group to submit certain information in connection
number of claims have been settled. Most of the remaining actions
with that investigation. The Group has cooperated with the staff’s
are at their early stages although tentative trial dates for some
investigation.
cases have been set for early 2003.
Following public reference to the FTC investigation regarding Paxil,
Government investigations purported consumer class actions have been filed in the US District
GlaxoSmithKline has received subpoenas from the US Attorney’s Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of putative
office in Boston, Massachusetts, requesting production of classes of indirect purchasers, including consumers and third party
documents for the period from 1991 to the present relating to any payers. The plaintiffs claim that the Group has monopolised a
repackaging, relabelling or private label arrangements that ‘market’ for Paxilby bringing allegedly sham patent litigation and
GlaxoSmithKline has had or discussed with third-party customers allegedly abusing the regulatory procedures for the listing of
during such period. At issue is whether the prices charged to such patents in the FDA Orange Book. Treble damages are sought for
third parties for GlaxoSmithKline products must be counted for alleged overcharges flowing from the conduct. The cases are at an
Medicaid ‘best price’ purposes. The Group has also received letters early stage with no determination as to whether they will be
from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) stating permitted to proceed as class actions.
CMS’s position that certain of those prices should have been
Through the US pharmaceutical businesses of both SmithKline
included in Medicaid ‘best price’ and requesting that
Beecham and Glaxo Wellcome, the Group is party to a number of
GlaxoSmithKline retroactively adjust its ‘best price’ reports for
antitrust suits, certain of which have been certified as class actions,
quarters prior to July 2000 to include those prices. The Group is
instituted by most of the nation’s retail pharmacies and consumers
involved in discussions with the US Attorney’s office to resolve
in several states, alleging conspiracies in restraint of trade and
these issues.
challenging the pricing practices of the Group. A significant
GlaxoSmithKline has been responding to subpoenas from the number of other pharmaceutical companies and wholesalers have
Office of the Inspector General of the US Department of Health also been sued in the same or similar litigation. These actions,
and Human Services, the US Department of Justice and the states except for several actions brought in state courts, were
of Texas and California in connection with allegations that consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the District Court for the
pharmaceutical companies, including GlaxoSmithKline, have Northern District of Illinois. The federal class action component,
violated federal fraud and abuse laws such as the Federal False which includes pharmacies representing approximately two-thirds
Claims Act (and, with respect to Texas and California, comparable of total US retail sales volume, was settled by both Glaxo Wellcome
state laws) as a result of the way certain drugs are priced and the and SmithKline Beecham in 1996. Since that time, the Group has
way the Medicare and Medicaid programmes reimburse for those entered into other settlements on satisfactory terms. The Group
drugs. In 2002, the Nevada and Montana state attorneys general has not engaged in any conspiracy and no admission of
each filed a civil lawsuit in state court against GlaxoSmithKline wrongdoing was made nor included in the final agreements.
and several other drug companies. The actions claim - on behalf
In August 2001 the US District Court for the District of
of the states as payers and on behalf of in-state patients as
Massachusetts ruled the Group’s patent for nabumetone (Relafen)
consumers - damages and restitution based on defendants’
invalid for anticipatory art and unenforceable on the grounds of
pricing for an undefined set of pharmaceutical products.
inequitable conduct. The Group filed an appeal from that decision
In the first quarter of 2003, the County of Suffolk, New York, in November 2001. In August 2002 the CAFC issued a decision
filed an action in federal court that also asserts claims against affirming the District Court’s judgement of invalidity but declining
GlaxoSmithKline and others relating to the reported “average to rule on the judgement of inequitable conduct. Following the
wholesale price” of certain drugs covered by the state’s Medicaid District Court decision, antitrust claims alleging competitive injury
program. The New York state attorney general filed a similar and overcharges have been filed by Teva, a generic manufacturer
complaint in New York state court. In addition, private payer class of nabumetone, by purported classes of direct purchasers and
action lawsuits have been filed against GlaxoSmithKline in several payers and by individual groups of purported direct purchasers.
federal district and state courts. A number of the federal cases The plaintiffs’ claims are based on allegations of fraudulent
have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in procurement of a patent, wrongful listing of the patent in the FDA
the US District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Most of the Orange Book and prosecution of sham patent infringement
civil suits filed by state attorneys general and class action plaintiffs litigation. Those cases, which were originally filed in the US District
have been removed to federal court. Some of the removed cases, Courts for the District of Massachusetts and the Eastern District of
including the Nevada and Montana cases, have been consolidated Pennsylvania, are now all pending in the District of Massachusetts
into the District of Massachusetts proceedings and steps have been and are in their early stages. There has been no determination as
taken to consolidate the other removed cases there too. Nevada, to whether the putative class actions will be permitted to proceed
Montana and some of the private class action plaintiffs who as class actions.
originally filed in state court are seeking to have their cases
remanded to their respective state courts. All the actions are in
their early stages.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 107
30 Legal proceedings continued These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of
In 2002, the US District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia
hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to
found various patents covering Augmentin invalid. The Group has
reimburse the government for cleanup costs. In most instances,
filed an appeal from that decision, which is still pending before the
GlaxoSmithKline is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous
CAFC. Immediately following the adverse trial court decision,
waste although there are a few sites where GlaxoSmithKline is
purported antitrust class actions were filed on behalf of consumers
involved as a current or former operator of the facility. Although
and third party payers in various federal courts, which have now all
Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and severally
been transferred or consolidated in the US District Court for the
liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are frequently resolved
Eastern District of Virginia. Plaintiffs allege that the Group
on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed of at the
knowingly obtained invalid patents and engaged in other
site by the generator. GlaxoSmithKline’s proportionate liability for
anticompetitive conduct to prevent entry of generic products in
cleanup costs has been substantially determined for about 20 of
violation of the monopolization section of the US antitrust laws.
the sites referred to above.
Plaintiffs seek declaratory and injunctive relief as well as treble
damages for the alleged overcharges. There has been no GlaxoSmithKline’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site.
determination as to whether the putative class actions, which are While the cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites
in their early stages, will be permitted to proceed as class actions. could, over time, be substantial, GlaxoSmithKline routinely accrues
Separately, the Group is prosecuting patent infringement suits amounts related to its share of liability for such matters.
against four companies that have filed ANDAs seeking permission
to sell generic bupropion (Wellbutrin SR/Zyban) in the US. In three Tax matters
of those cases, summary judgement has been entered against the Pending tax matters are described in Note 12.
Group. Following these adverse rulings in the patent litigation, a
purported class action on behalf of purchasers and third party
payers was filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, alleging that the Group engaged in anticompetitive
conduct, including prosecution of sham patent infringement
litigation, to prevent entry of generic products. Plaintiffs seek
declaratory and injunctive relief, as well as treble damages for the
alleged overcharges.
Commercial matters
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. initiated arbitration proceedings in
December 2001 concerning the Group’s unilateral withdrawal of
grepafloxacin (Raxar/Vaxar) in October 1999 for safety reasons.
Otsuka alleges that the product withdrawal and simultaneous
public announcement constituted material breaches of the license
and supply agreements. The Group believes the underlying product
withdrawal was consistent with the terms of the agreements and
that valid defences exist to the claims. A UK arbitration panel has
been selected and met. The hearing to determine liability, if any, is
scheduled for December 2003.
SmithKline Beecham Clinical Laboratories indemnities
In connection with the sale of SmithKline Beecham Clinical
Laboratories (SBCL) to Quest Diagnostics, Inc., the Group has
agreed to indemnify Quest Diagnostics, on an after-tax basis, with
respect to certain liabilities arising from the conduct of the SBCL
business prior to closing, including governmental and private
claims arising from the US government’s investigation into SBCL’s
billing and marketing practices.
Environmental matters
GlaxoSmithKline has been notified of its potential responsibility
relating to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at
certain sites, primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the
subject of litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US
federal or state governments for waste disposal site remediation
costs and tort actions brought by private parties. GlaxoSmithKline
has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
approximately 27 sites, of which 11 appear on the National Priority
List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act (‘Superfund’).108 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
31 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures are given below.
2002 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Iterfi– Sterilyo (7) 4 (3) 21 18
Human Kft 10 – 10 1 11
Other – – – 1 1
3 4 7 23 30
Iterfi– Sterilyo
During 2002 the Group acquired Iterfi-Sterilyo Group for an initial cash consideration of £9 million. A further payment will be payable
during 2003, up to a maximum of £9 million, depending on the financial performance of the acquired company during 2002. The net
assets of Iterfi-Sterilyo have been incorporated in the financial statements at their provisional fair values.
Human Kft
During 2002 the Group acquired the vaccine related assets of Human Kft, a manufacturing business located in Hungary, for a cash
consideration of £11 million.
Disposals
SB Clinical Laboratories
A cash refund of £6 million was received during 2002 in respect of indemnified liabilities arising from the SB Clinical Laboratories disposal
which occurred in 1999. The refund is as a result of a successful case in the US Court of Appeal.
SB Clinical Iterfi- Human
Laboratories Sterilyo Kft Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – 9 11 6 26
Cash acquired – – – – –
Net cash payment on acquisitions – 9 11 6 26
Net cash proceeds from disposals 6 – – – 6
2001 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
Block Drug 491 352 843 – 843
Shionogi joint venture 31 – 31 – 31
Other 13 (8) 5 13 18
535 344 879 13 892
Block Drug Company Inc.
In January 2001, the Group acquired Block Drug for cash consideration of £843 million which represented the fair value of the assets
acquired.
Shionogi joint venture
During 2001 the Group established a joint venture with Shionogi to develop and commercialise a number of compounds contributed by
both parties. The Group acquired 50 per cent of the equity share capital for a cash consideration of £31 million, and has committed to
make further contributions if certain development milestones are achieved.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 109
31 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Disposals
Quest Diagnostics, Inc.
In May 2001 the Group disposed of 1.5 million shares from its investment in Quest Diagnostics, Inc. for cash proceeds of £124 million,
reducing the Group’s holding at 31st December 2001 to 23 per cent. After recognising a charge for goodwill previously written off to
reserves of £17million a profit of £96 million was recognised.
Affymax
During 2001 the Group completed the sale of the Affymax business to Affymax Inc., a new holding company, for 2.3 million non-voting
preference shares in Affymax Inc. representing a value of $19.6 million (£13.6 million). After recognising a charge for goodwill previously
written off to reserves of £299 million a loss of £301 million was made. Disposal costs of £5 million were incurred in completing the sale.
Tagamet
In February 2001 the Group sold Tagamet in Japan to Sumitomo Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. for a cash consideration of £71 million. After
recognising a charge for goodwill previously written off to reserves of £72 million a loss of £1 million was recognised.
Quest
Diagnostics Affymax Tagamet Block Drug Shionogi Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – – – 843 31 18 892
Cash acquired – – – (45) – – (45)
Net cash payment on acquisitions – – – 798 31 18 847
Net cash proceeds from disposals 124 (5) 71 – – – 190
2000 Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
Acquisitions £m £m £m £m £m
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA 7 – 7 16 23
Acquisition of other minority interests 2 – 2 – 2
9 – 9 16 25
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA
During 2000 the Group acquired a further 8.7 per cent of GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA (formerly Polfa Poznan SA) in Poland for a cash
consideration of £23 million. Goodwill of £16 million was capitalised and is being amortised in line with the initial acquisition in 1998.
Disposals
Affymetrix, Inc.
In May 2000 the Group sold two million shares in Affymetrix, Inc. for cash proceeds of £155 million, realising a profit of £144 million.
SB Clinical Laboratories
A final cash settlement of US$95 million (£62 million) was paid in October 2000 to complete the sale of SB Clinical Laboratories.
SB Clinical GlaxoSmithKline
Laboratories Affymetrix Pharmaceuticals SA Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – – 23 2 25
Cash acquired – – – – –
Net cash payment on acquisitions – – 23 2 25
Net cash proceeds from disposals (62) 155 – – 93110 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The table on page 111 presents the carrying amounts under UK
Policies
GAAP and the fair values of the Group’s financial assets and
Discussion of the Group’s objectives and policies for the
liabilities at 31st December 2002 and 31st December 2001.
management offinancial instruments and associated risks is
Debtors and creditors due within one year have been excluded.
included under ‘Treasury Policies’ in the Operating and financial
review and prospects on page 62. The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
atthe amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a
Investments current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced
The Group holds a number of equity investments, frequently in or liquidationsale. The following methods and assumptions were
entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. used to estimate thefair values:
The Group seeks to realise the value in these investments, which
• Equity investments – market value based on quoted market
inpart the research collaboration helps to create, and therefore
prices in the case of listed investments; market value by
certain of these investments are regarded as available for sale and
reference to quoted prices for similar companies or recent
are accounted foras current asset investments. For the purposes
financing information in the case of material unlisted
ofUSGAAP all the current asset investments are classified as
investments
available for sale.
• Cash at bank – approximates to the carrying amount
In 2002, GlaxoSmithKline hedged part of the equity value of its • Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices for similar
holdings in its largest equity investment, Quest Diagnostics, Inc. companies or recent financing information in the case of
through a series of variable sale forward contracts. These contracts marketable securities; approximates to the carrying amount
(the ‘equity collar’) are structured in five series, each over one inthe case of time deposits because of their short maturity
million Quest shares and mature between 2006 and 2008. • Short-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
amount because of the short maturity of these instruments
The Group has liquid investments, representing funds surplus to
• Medium-term loans – market value based on quoted market
immediate operating requirements, which are accounted for as
prices in the case of the Eurobonds and other fixed rate
current asset investments. For the purposes of USGAAP the
borrowings; approximates to the carrying amount in the case
investments are classified as available for sale. The proceeds from
offloating rate bank loans and other loans
sale of investments classified as available for sale(under US GAAP)
• Forward exchange contracts – based on market prices and
in the year ended 31stDecember 2002 were£162million. The
exchange rates at the balance sheet date
proceeds include the roll-over of liquid funds on short-term deposit.
• Currency swaps – based on market valuations at the balance
The gross gains and losses reflected in the consolidated profit and
sheetdate
loss account in respect of investments classified as available for sale
• Equity collar - fair value is determined based on an option
(under US GAAP) were £44 million and£1million,respectively.
pricing model
• Interest rate instruments – based on market valuations at the
Foreign exchange risk management
balance sheet date
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts
• Debtors and creditors – approximates to the carrying amount
inorder to swap liquid assets and borrowings into the currencies
• Provisions – approximates to the carrying amount
required for Group purposes. At 31st December 2002 the Group
• Auction rate preference stock - approximates to the carrying
had outstanding contracts to sell or purchase foreign currency
amount in the case of floating rate instruments
having a total notional principal amount of £1,937 million
• Flexible auction market preferred stock - based on market
(2001 – £7,312 million). The majority of contracts are for periods
valuations at the balance sheet date.
of 12 months or less.
At the end of the year the Group had a number of currency swaps Fair value of investments in own shares
inplace in respect of medium-term debt instruments. The Group had at 31st December 2002 investments in own shares
of £2,826million (2001 – £2,936 million) with a fair value of
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
£2,161million (2001 – £3,229million). The difference between
which match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as
the carrying amount and the fair value represents an unrealised
ahedge against the relevant net assets and exchange gains or
loss of £665 million. This valuation shortfall is not considered to
losses are recorded in reserves.
represent a permanent diminution in value in the context of the
length of the future period over which the related share options
Interest rate risk management
may be exercised. Accordingly no provision has been made. These
To manage the fixed/floating interest rate profile of debt, the Group
investments are excluded from financial instrument disclosure. The
had several interest rate swaps outstanding with commercial banks
fair value is the market value based on quoted market price.
at 31st December 2002.
The shares represent purchases by Employee Share Ownership
Concentrations of credit risk and credit exposures of Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under
financialinstruments employee incentive schemes. The purchases are matched against
The Group does not believe it is exposed to major concentrations options at pre-determined exercise prices and the gain or loss to
of credit risk. The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the be recognised is measured against exercise price rather than
event of non-performance by counterparties to financial market value.
instruments, but does not expect any counterparties to fail to meet
their obligations. The Group applies Board-approved limits to the
amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty and employs
strict minimum credit worthiness criteria as to the choice of
counterparty.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 111
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the classification of financial assets and liabilities and provides a reconciliation to Group net debt in Note 25.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from financial assets and liabilities. Provisions have been included where there is a
contractual obligation to settle in cash.
2002 2001
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
amount value amount value
£m £m £m £m
Net debt
Liquid investments 1,256 1,264 1,415 1,418
Cash at bank 1,052 1,052 716 716
Current asset financial instruments 2,308 2,316 2,131 2,134
Sterling notes and bonds (1,472) (1,559) (1,471) (1,534)
(1,472) (1,559) (1,471) (1,534)
US dollar notes, bonds and private financing (978) (1,018) (729) (752)
Notes and bonds swapped into US dollars (498) (507) (61) (53)
Currency swaps – 21 – (8)
Interest rate swaps – 7 – –
(1,476) (1,497) (790) (813)
Notes and bonds swapped into Yen (106) (114) (340) (346)
Currency swaps – 6 – 18
(106) (108) (340) (328)
Other medium-term borrowings (38) (38) (49) (49)
Other short-term loans and overdrafts (1,551) (1,551) (1,582) (1,582)
Total borrowings (4,643) (4,753) (4,232) (4,306)
Interest rate swaps – (1) – 10
Total net debt (2,335) (2,438) (2,101) (2,162)
Fixed asset equity investments 125 129 133 133
Current asset equity investments 161 232 185 531
Other debtors due after 1 year 308 308 329 329
Other creditors due after 1 year (206) (206) (110) (110)
Provisions (224) (224) (105) (105)
Other foreign exchange derivatives 133 133 (6) 1
Equity collar – 78 – –
Auction rate preference stock (248) (248) (276) (276)
Flexible auction market preferred stock (311) (316) (345) (355)
Total non-equity minority interests (559) (564) (621) (631)
Total financial assets and liabilities (2,597) (2,552) (2,296) (2,014)
Total financial assets 3,035 3,196 2,778 3,138
Total financial liabilities (5,632) (5,748) (5,074) (5,152)
Where appropriate currency and interest rate swaps have been presented alongside the underlying principal instrument. The carrying
amounts of these instruments have been adjusted for the effect of the currency and interest rate swaps acting as hedges.
The difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of equity (fixed and current assets) and liquid investments represents gross
unrealised gains of £75million and £8 million, respectively.112 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities, after taking account of currency and interest rate swaps, are analysed below.
Total financial liabilities comprise total borrowings of £4,643million (2001 – £4,232 million), other creditors due after one year of
£206million (2001– £110million), provisions of £224 million (2001 – £105 million) and non-equity minority interest preference shares
of£559 million (2001 – £621 million) but exclude foreign exchange derivatives of £nil(2001 – £6 million). Creditors due within
one year have been excluded.
The benchmark rate for determining interest payments for all floating rate financial liabilities in the tables below is LIBOR.
Fixed rate Non-interest bearing
Weighted Weighted
average average Weighted
At 31st December 2002 interest years for Floating average
rate which rate rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m
US dollars 471 2.6 0.7 2,974 325 7.8 3,770
Sterling 1,472 6.4 21.5 4 64 1.6 1,540
Euro – – – 64 13 1.3 77
Japanese Yen 144 0.7 1.2 – – – 144
Other currencies – – – 73 28 3.6 101
2,087 4.2 9.8 3,115 430 6.4 5,632
Fixed rate Non-interest bearing
Weighted Weighted
average average Weighted
At 31st December 2001 interest years for Floating average
rate which rate rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m
US dollars 516 6.1 3.2 2,291 131 1.2 2,938
Sterling 1,471 6.5 22.5 45 25 1.3 1,541
Euro 4 7.9 1.0 45 19 0.4 68
Japanese Yen 340 0.5 1.4 3 1 15.0 344
Other currencies – – – 134 43 0.2 177
2,331 5.5 15.1 2,518 219 1.0 5,068
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial assets
Total financial assets comprise fixed asset equity investments of £125 million (2001 – £133 million), current asset equity investments
of £161 million (2001 – £185 million), liquid investments of £1,256 million (2001 – £1,415 million), cash at bank of £1,052 million
(2001 – £716 million), and debtors due after one year of £308million (2001 – £329 million) but exclude foreign exchange derivatives of
£133 million (2001 – £nil).
The benchmark rate for determining interest receipts for all floating rate assets in the table below is LIBOR.
At 31st December 2002 Fixed Floating Non-interest
rate rate bearing Total
Currency £m £m £m £m
US dollars 365 1,275 290 1,930
Sterling 20 123 28 171
Euro 41 299 22 362
Japanese Yen 7 2 24 33
Other currencies 23 323 60 406
456 2,022 424 2,902
At 31st December 2001 Fixed Floating Non-interest
rate rate bearing Total
Currency £m £m £m £m
US dollars 404 1,050 406 1,860
Sterling 18 17 66 101
Euro 60 168 96 324
Japanese Yen 7 14 19 40
Other currencies 173 254 26 453
662 1,503 613 2,778Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 113
32 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency exposure of net monetary assets/(liabilities)
The Group’s currency exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the profit and loss account arise
principally in companies with sterling functional currency. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in overseas functional currency,
andborrowings designated as a hedge against overseas net assets, are excluded from the table below.
At 31stDecember 2002
Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – (144) (14) 18 (48) (188)
US dollars (708) – 54 (1) (63) (718)
Euro 184 (6) – – (11) 167
Japanese Yen 10 – 2 – – 12
Other (354) (10) 1 (1) – (364)
(868) (160) 43 16 (122) (1,091)
At 31stDecember 2001
Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling – (80) 5 (1) (10) (86)
US dollars 329 – 85 – 63 477
Euro 147 7 – – (1) 153
Japanese Yen 13 – (2) – – 11
Other 88 3 1 – – 92
577 (70) 89 (1) 52 647
Non-equity
Finance minority Total Total
Debt leases interests Other 2002 2001
Maturity of financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year or on demand 1,550 1 559 90 2,201 2,602
Between one and two years 421 2 – 91 514 268
Between two and five years 873 3 – 121 996 1,183
After five years 1,786 7 – 128 1,921 1,015
4,630 13 559 430 5,632 5,068
2002
Gains Losses Net
Hedges £m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses at the beginning of the year 56 (29) 27
Gains and losses arising in previous years and
recognised in the year (51) 25 (26)
Gains and losses arising before the beginning of the
year and still unrecognised at the end of the year 5 (4) 1
Unrecognised gains and losses arising in the year 107 3 110
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 112 (1) 111
Expected to be recognised within one year – – –
Expected to be recognised after one year 112 (1) 111
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 112 (1) 111
The unrecognised gains and losses above represent the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the currency swaps,
interest rate swaps, equity collar and other foreign exchange derivatives.
Committed facilities
The Group has committed facilities to back up the commercial paper programme of £872 million (2001 – £968 million) of 364 days
duration renewable annually. At 31st December 2002, undrawn committed facilities totalled £1,404 million.114 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
33 Employee costs 2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 3,876 3,664 3,578
Social security costs 385 344 383
Pension and other post-retirement costs 299 228 244
Cost of share-based incentive plans 135 147 197
Severance costs arising from integration and restructuring activities 228 245 82
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration 17 58 3
4,940 4,686 4,487
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare
insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
Information on Directors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages 39to 50.
2002 2001 2000
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year Number Number Number
Manufacturing 36,548 37,154 36,177
Selling, general and administration 54,810 55,655 55,365
Research and development 14,808 15,090 16,659
106,166 107,899 108,201
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff.
The numbers of Group employees at the end of each financial year are given in the Financial record (page 150).
2002 2001 2000
Pension and other post-retirement costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 60 16 16
US pension schemes 86 70 68
Other overseas pensions schemes 52 57 105
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 61 57 48
Post-employment costs 40 28 7
299 228 244
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 134 107 82
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 34 13 10
Defined contribution schemes 30 23 97
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 61 57 48
Post-employment costs 40 28 7
299 228 244
Pension and other post-retirement costs arising from integration 17 58 3
Included within the UKpension costs above is an exceptional charge of £42 million relating to pension augmentation on redundancies
arising from the manufacturing restructuring plans in the UK.
Pensions
Group undertakings operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
Thesearrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided
by State schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from
contributions paid in respect of each employee, or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee
pensionable remuneration and length ofservice. Some defined benefit schemes now also include defined contribution sections and
aredescribed as ‘hybrid’ schemes in the table.
In the majority of cases the contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent,
professionally qualified actuaries. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at
least every three years. Theassets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insured. Pension costs for
accounting purposes have been assessed in accordance with independent actuarial advice, generally using the projected unit method and
by spreading surpluses or deficits over the average expected remaining service lives of the respective memberships.
In certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some of which are under a scheme administered by a trustee
company. Whereassets are not held with the specific purpose of matching the liabilities of unfunded schemes, a provision is included
within provisions for pensions and other post-retirement benefits. The charge against profits in respect of these benefits is the aggregate
ofthe increase over the year intheassessed liabilities for members still in service and the net movement in provisions set up for pensions
inpayment. Liabilities are generally assessed annually in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 115
33 Employee costs continued
Throughout 2002 the pension arrangements in some of the former Glaxo Wellcome companies and former SmithKline Beecham companies
continued to be operated separately. However in some instances, including the USA, the pension arrangements have been merged. The
following information deals with each set of arrangements accordingly.
The market value of the assets of the Group’s funded defined benefit pension funds at the dates of the latest actuarial valuations, some
of which date back to 1999, was £6.5billion and the actuarial value of assets was sufficient to cover approximately 113 per cent of the
benefits that had accrued to members after allowing for future salary andpension increases.
The UK defined benefit pension schemes account for approximately 70 per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation and projected
benefit terms and the US defined benefit pension schemes account for approximately 25 per cent of the Group’s plans in asset valuation
and projected benefit terms.
In December 2002, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK, US and German pension schemes totalling £320 million.
The company will review the pension position annually and will make further contributions as appropriate. Pension costs are expected
to be higher in 2003 than in 2002 as the new actuarial valuations of the UKand US schemes become available.
UK
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to
join a defined contribution scheme. The relevant assumptions used in calculating the pension costs of both the former Glaxo Wellcome
and former SmithKline Beecham UK defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes are as follows:
2002 2001
% pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.0 4.0
Discount rate 8.0 8.0
Expected long-term rate of return on investments 8.0 8.0
Expected pension increases 2.5 2.5
UK equity dividend growth 5.0 5.0
The regular cost for the Glaxo Wellcome pension arrangements in 2002 was £62 million, which became a £14 million credit for the
financial statements, after allowance was made for spreading the surplus disclosed as a level percentage of salary over the expected
future working lifetime of the existing members (some 11 years).
The most recent triennial actuarial valuations of the Glaxo Wellcome schemes for funding purposes were carried out as at
31stMarch 2000. At that date the assets of the schemes represented 133 per cent of the actuarial value of all benefits accrued to
members after allowing for future salary and pension increases. The trustees of the UK pension schemes agreed, at the company’s
request, to grant various benefit improvements, which included a five per cent enhancement in the entitlement of all beneficiaries. After
allowance was made for these improvements, the funding level fell to 123 per cent. Following the valuations, normal company
contributions to the schemes remain suspended at least until the next formal valuation. Thetotal market value of the assets held by the
schemes at 31st March 2000 was £3,670 million.
The regular cost for the SmithKline Beecham schemes in 2002 was £17 million, which increased to an accounting cost of £28 million after
allowance was made for the spreading of the deficit over the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the scheme (some
11 years). The latest valuation was carried out at 31st December 1999 and at that date the actuarial value of scheme assets represented
90per cent of the actuarial value of the accrued service liabilities based on the 2002 assumptions. The total market value of assets held
by the scheme at 31st December 1999 was £1,077 million.
USA
In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit and hybrid schemes were merged during 2001. The
relevant assumptions used in calculating the pension costs for accounting purposes are as follows:
2002 2001
% pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 5.5 5.5
Discount rate 9.5 9.5
Expected long-term rate of return on investments 9.5 9.5
Cash balance credit/conversion rate 6.5 6.5
US equity dividend growth 7.75 7.75
The regular cost for the US scheme in 2002 was £64 million, which increased to an accounting cost of £77 million after allowance was
made for the spreading of the deficit over the expected future working lifetime of current employees in the scheme. The latest valuation
was carried out at 1st January 2002 and at that date the actuarial value of scheme assets represented 90 per cent of the actuarial value
of theaccrued service liabilities. The total market value of assets held by the scheme at 1st January 2002 was £1,536 million.116 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
33 Employee costs continued
FRS 17 disclosures
The Group continues to account for pension arrangements in accordance with SSAP 24 ‘Accounting for Pension Costs’. Under the
transitional provisions of FRS 17 ‘Retirement Benefits’ certain disclosures are required on the basis of the valuation methodology adopted
by FRS 17. For defined benefit schemes the fair values of pension scheme assets at 31st December 2002 are compared with the future
pension liabilities calculated under the projected unit method applying the following assumptions:
UK USA Rest of World
2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 3.75 4.0 5.5 5.5 3.0 3.5
Discount rate 5.75 6.0 6.75 7.25 4.75 4.75
Expected pension increases 2.25 2.5 n/a n/a 1.5 1.0
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a 5.75 6.25 n/a n/a
Inflation rate 2.25 2.5 2.25 3.5 1.5 1.5
The expected long-term rates of return on the assets and the fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit
schemes, together with aggregated data for other defined benefit schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2002 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.25 2,523 9.25 804 6.75 172 3,499
Property – – 7.0 53 7.0 5 58
Bonds 4.5 299 6.25 265 4.5 145 709
Other assets 4.0 137 1.5 240 1.75 9 386
Fair value of assets 2,959 1,362 331 4,652
Present value of scheme liabilities (4,153) (1,782) (578) (6,513)
(1,194) (420) (247) (1,861)
Value of schemes in surplus 11 11
Deferred tax liability (3) (3)
8 8
Value of schemes in deficit (1,194) (420) (258) (1,872)
Deferred tax asset 358 147 97 602
(836) (273) (161) (1,270)
Group total (1,262)
Other assets in the UKand US schemes include the special contributions paid in December 2002. These will be allocated to equities and bonds
in 2003.
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2001 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.5 3,234 9.5 1,220 7.25 193 4,647
Property – – 8.0 54 7.5 3 57
Bonds 5.0 411 7.0 250 5.0 107 768
Other assets 4.5 70 5.0 12 3.25 10 92
Fair value of assets 3,715 1,536 313 5,564
Present value of scheme liabilities (3,970) (1,781) (527) (6,278)
(255) (245) (214) (714)
Value of schemes in surplus 42 24 66
Deferred tax liability (13) (7) (20)
29 17 46
Value of schemes in deficit (297) (245) (238) (780)
Deferred tax asset 89 93 95 277
(208) (152) (143) (503)
Group total (457)Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 117
33 Employee costs continued
The UK defined benefit schemes also have defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £281 million at
31st December 2002 (2001 – £263million). The defined benefit sections of the UK schemes have been closed to new members, and
under the projected unit method of valuing the pension scheme liabilities the current service cost will increase as the members of the
schemes approach retirement. The deficits under FRS 17 reflect the different bases for valuing assets and liabilities compared with SSAP 24,
including the immediate impact of the fair values of assets at 31st December 2002.
The Group also operates a number of unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the USA. The liability
under FRS 17 for the US scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme, together with the
assumption for future medical inflation of 11 per cent, reducing by one per cent per year to five per cent. On this basis the liability for the
USscheme has been assessed at £766 million (2001 – £787 million), which reduced to £475 million (2001 – £488 million) after taking
account of deferred tax.
If the defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit schemes had been accounted for under FRS17, the following amounts would
have been recorded in the profit and loss account and statement of total recognised gains and losses for the year ended
31st December 2002.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost (118) (74) (32) (224) (24)
Past service cost (28) (34) – (62) –
Curtailments/settlements – – (1) (1) –
(146) (108) (33) (287) (24)
Amounts credited/(charged) to net interest
Expected return on pension scheme assets 293 129 14 436
Interest on scheme liabilities (235) (129) (22) (386) (53)
58 – (8) 50 (53)
Amounts recorded in statement of total
recognised gains and losses
Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets (1,024) (293) (56) (1,373)
Experience gains/(losses) arising on scheme liabilities 34 (3) 2 33 95
Changes in assumptions relating to present
value of scheme liabilities (15) (57) 10 (62) (124)
(1,005) (353) (44) (1,402) (29)
Movements in deficits during the year
Deficits in schemes at 1st January 2002 (255) (245) (214) (714) (854)
Exchange adjustments – 37 (9) 28 85
Charged to operating profit (146) (108) (33) (287) (24)
Employer contributions 154 249 61 464 41
Other finance income/(expense) 58 – (8) 50 (53)
Actuarial loss recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (1,005) (353) (44) (1,402) (29)
Deficits in schemes at 31st December 2002 (1,194) (420) (247) (1,861) (834)
History of experience gains and losses
Difference between the expected and actual
return on scheme assets (£m) (1,024) (293) (56) (1,373)
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2002 35% 22% 17% 30%
Experience gains/(losses) of scheme liabilities (£m) 34 (3) 2 33 95
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities
at 31st December 2002 1% – – 1% 11%
Total amount recognised in statement of total
recognised gains and losses (£m) (1,005) (353) (44) (1,402) (29)
Percentage of present value of scheme
liabilities at 31st December 2002 24% 20% 8% 22% 3%118 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
33 Employee costs continued
If the FRS17 valuation basis had been applied in the financial statements instead of the SSAP 24 valuation basis, the effect on the profit
and loss account reserve after taking account of deferred tax would have been as follows:
2001
2002 (restated)
£m £m £m £m
Profit and loss account reserve per balance sheet 2,946 3,811
Pension liability under FRS 17 (1,262) (457)
Pension liability under SSAP 24 per balance sheet (39) (185)
(1,223) (272)
Post-retirement healthcare schemes under FRS 17 (545) (519)
Post-retirement healthcare schemes provision per balance sheet (378) (388)
(167) (131)
Profit and loss account reserve including pension and post-retirement healthcare liability 1,556 3,408
34 Employee share schemes
The company operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at the grant price, and share award schemes, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at no cost, subject tothe achievement of performance targets. The details given below relate to schemes operated by GlaxoSmithKline in
2002 and 2001 and separately by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham up to the date of the merger, which became schemes of
GlaxoSmithKline on the merger. Each Glaxo Wellcome option outstanding at the date of the merger was converted into one
GlaxoSmithKline option. Each SmithKline Beecham share option wasconverted into 0.4552 of a GlaxoSmithKline share option and each
SmithKline Beecham ADS option was converted into 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADS options, with corresponding adjustments to the grant
price.
GlaxoSmithKline share option schemes
The company operates share option schemes and savings-related share option schemes. Grants under share option schemes are normally
exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants under savings-related share option schemes are normally
exercisable after three years’ saving.
Options under the share option schemes are normally granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK
practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20 per cent below the market price
ruling at the date of grant.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December2002
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
(000) price (000) price (000) price
At 27th December 2000:
Converted from GW options 106,748 £13.87 – – 8,397 £12.34
Converted from SB options 35,122 £12.81 37,962 $44.10 – –
Options exercised (4,275) £11.18 – – (62) £11.17
Options cancelled – – – – (59) £13.41
At 31st December 2000 137,595 £13.68 37,962 $44.10 8,276 £12.34
Options granted 67,763 £17.98 42,034 $51.82 4,443 £14.12
Options exercised (21,332) £10.36 (4,705) $13.06 (3,075) £8.48
Options cancelled (4,090) £14.68 (1,466) $52.40 (1,444) £15.90
At 31st December 2001 179,936 £15.67 73,825 $50.31 8,200 £14.13
Options granted 33,454 £11.91 22,991 $37.57 9,793 £9.16
Options exercised (8,857) £10.55 (1,504) $21.75 (398) £14.04
Options cancelled (7,061) £17.53 (4,435) $54.69 (4,607) £14.41
At 31st December 2002 197,472 £15.20 90,877 $47.34 12,988 £10.29
Range of exercise prices £3.61 – £19.77 $11.68 – $61.35 £9.16 – £16.48
In order to encourage employees to convert options, excluding savings-related share options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline
Beecham shares or ADSs into those over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit
of ten per cent of the exercise price of the original option provided that the employee does not voluntarily leave the Group for two years
from the date of the merger and does not exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option
and two years from the date of the merger. The cash benefit will also be paid if the options expire unexercised if the market price is below
the exercise price on the date of expiry.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 119
34 Employee share schemes continued
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December2002
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise
Year of grant (000) price date (000) price date (000) price date
1993 587 £5.17 01.12.03 167 $12.94 24.11.03 – – –
1994 3,879 £5.10 22.11.04 1,385 $14.67 22.11.04 – – –
1995 5,633 £7.13 21.11.05 1,037 $21.73 15.11.05 – – –
1996 6,261 £8.40 01.12.06 1,465 $27.65 21.11.06 – – –
1997 10,773 £11.63 13.11.07 5,166 $40.32 13.11.07 – – –
1998 20,894 £16.94 23.11.08 7,410 $54.28 23.11.08 1 £14.29 01.01.03
1999 24,104 £18.13 03.12.09 9,957 $60.14 24.11.09 2,226 £13.27 31.05.03
2000 28,403 £14.87 11.09.10 542 $58.30 09.08.10 259 £16.48 31.05.04
2001 63,545 £18.09 28.11.11 40,803 $51.82 28.11.11 720 £14.12 31.05.05
2002 33,393 £11.90 03.12.12 22,945 $37.54 03.12.12 9,782 £9.16 31.05.06
Total 197,472 £15.20 90,877 $47.34 12,988 £10.29
All of the above options are exercisable, except 27,923,000 options over shares granted in 2000, all options over shares and ADSs granted
in 2001 and 2002 and the savings-related share options granted in 2000, 2001 and 2002.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year. No further options were granted
between 31st December 2002 and 3rdMarch 2003.
Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
(000) price (000) price (000) price
At 31st December 2000 106,805 £13.36 37,962 $44.10 2,358 £6.73
At 31st December 2001 85,601 £14.10 32,373 $48.36 289 £14.29
At 31st December 2002 72,611 £14.33 27,129 $48.89 2,227 £13.27
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior staff at no cost. The percentage of each
award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a three year measurement period. The performance conditions consist of
two parts, each of which applies to 50 per cent of the award. The first part of the condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s Total Shareholder
Return (TSR) over the period with the TSR of companies in the UKFTSE 100 Index over the same period. The second part of the performance
condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s earnings per share growth to the increase in the UKRetail Prices Index over the three year
performance period.
Shares ADSs
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) Number (000)
At 27th December 2000
Converted from Glaxo Wellcome awards 2,111 –
Converted from SmithKline Beecham awards 1,623 1,386
Awards exercised (243) –
At 31st December 2000 3,491 1,386
Awards granted 1,778 1,042
Awards exercised (2,016) (598)
Awards cancelled (72) (70)
At 31st December 2001 3,181 1,760
Awards granted 863 477
Awards exercised (728) (197)
Awards cancelled (152) (97)
At 31st December 2002 3,164 1,943
Of the above awards 29,000relating to shares and nil relating to ADSs were exercisable at 31st December 2002.120 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
34 Employee share schemes continued
SmithKline Beecham share option schemes
At the date of the merger, all SmithKline Beecham share options became exercisable.
Shares ADSs
Weighted Weighted
exercise exercise
Number of shares and ADSs issuable under outstanding options Number (000) price Number (000) price
At 31st December 1999 100,429 £5.47 42,399 $45.59
Options granted 1,448 £8.28 560 $67.00
Options exercised (20,951) £4.30 (8,055) $30.09
Options cancelled (3,769) £5.71 (1,545) $35.16
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline options (77,157) £5.83 (33,359) $50.18
At 31st December 2000 – – – –
SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan
SmithKline Beecham adopted the Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) in 1996. Participations in the MTIP were granted annually to senior staff
in SmithKline Beecham, designating a target number of shares for each participant based on job grade. Following a three-year measurement
period, the R&N Committee reviewed SmithKline Beecham’s total shareholder return relative to the other companies comprising the FTSE
100 Index, and made a final award of a proportion of the target number of shares, up to 100 per cent, depending on performance. The
first two measurement periods ended on 31st December 1998 and 1999 and, 100 per cent and 97 per cent, respectively, of the target
number of shares was awarded. Receipt of the award could be deferred, in which case the shares remained in the MTIP. As a result of the
merger all outstanding awards became payable at 100 per cent of the target number of shares at the end of each three-year cycle.
Shares ADSs
Number of shares issuable under the Mid-Term Incentive Plan Number (000) Number (000)
At 31st December 1999 4,836 1,482
Awards granted 124 24
Awards exercised (1,224) (259)
Awards cancelled (170) (29)
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline awards (3,566) (1,218)
At 31st December 2000 – –
Glaxo Wellcome share option schemes
At the date of the merger, all Glaxo Wellcome options, except for share options granted in 2000 and savings-related share options granted
in 1998, 1999 and 2000, became exercisable and performance conditions, where applicable, lapsed.
Savings-related
Share option schemes share option schemes Total
Weighted Weighted Weighted
exercise exercise exercise
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options Number (000) price Number (000) price Number (000) price
At 31st December 1999 83,014 £12.74 11,418 £9.18 94,432 £12.31
Options granted 35,989 £14.81 2,112 £16.48 38,101 £14.91
Options exercised (7,956) £7.77 (4,801) £6.72 (12,757) £7.38
Options cancelled (4,299) £12.53 (332) £11.36 (4,631) £12.44
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline options (106,748) £13.87 (8,397) £12.34 (115,145) £13.76
At 31st December 2000 – – – – – –
Glaxo Wellcome share award schemes
Glaxo Wellcome operated a Long Term Incentive Plan and, between 1996 and 1998, an Annual Incentive Plan. The Long Term Incentive
Plan granted awards over shares to Directors and senior staff at a nominal cost. The percentage of each award that vested was based on
the performance of Glaxo Wellcome over a three-year period. The Annual Incentive Plan was a performance bonus consisting of a basic
award ofshares and a matching award with a three-year retention period. As a result of the merger the awards under the Long Term
Incentive Plan became payable in full and the retention period of the Annual Incentive Plan lapsed.
Number of shares issuable under share award schemes Number (000)
At 31st December 1999 2,364
Awards granted 826
Awards exercised (790)
Awards cancelled (289)
Converted to GlaxoSmithKline awards (2,111)
At 31st December 2000 –Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 121
34 Employee share schemescontinued
Employee Share Ownership Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards made under
employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the Employee Share Ownership Trusts
purchase shares onthe open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loan or contributions. The expected cost of the
obligations to deliver shares under the schemes are normally spread over the periods of service in respect of which the awards and options
are granted. An accelerated charge was made in 2000 in respect of the outstanding cost of providing shares for awards and options which
became exercisable solely as a result of the merger.
Shares held for share award schemes 2002 2001
Number of shares (000) 7,055 6,701
£m £m
Nominal value 2 2
Cost less provision 75 58
Market value 84 115
Shares held for share option schemes 2002 2001
Number of shares (000) 174,256 180,708
£m £m
Nominal value 44 45
Cost less provision 2,751 2,878
Market value 2,077 3,114
The Trusts also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the SmithKline Beecham
Mid-Term Incentive Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the stock-based compensation adjustment in the Reconciliation to US accounting principles in
Note37, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used. The assumptions used in the model for 2002 and 2001 are as follows:
2002 2001
Risk-free interest rate 4.2% – 5.4% 4.5% – 5.0%
Dividend yield 1.9% 1.8% – 1.9%
Volatility 33% 33%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years
Savings related share option schemes 3 years 3 years
35 Related party transactions
GlaxoSmithKline held a 23 per cent interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc. throughout 2002. This holding was reduced to 21 per cent in February
2003 following Quest’s acquisition of Unilab Corporation. In December 2002 GlaxoSmithKline and Quest amended the terms of their Global
Trials Agreement, which is a long-term contractual relationship under which Quest is the primary provider of clinical laboratory testing to
support the Group’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide.
In February 2002, Mr Ingram, then a member of the CET, purchased a portion of land being part of a residential property owned by the
Group that was adjacent to Mr Ingram’s own residence. The total sale price was $16,500 based on an independent valuation of the land.
The Group subsequently determined that retention of the residential property no longer served its business needs and listed the property
for sale. An independent valuation of the property on 3rd June 2002 valued it at $1,050,000 and the property was offered for sale through
an estate agent. Mr Ingram made the highest offer for the property and purchased it from the Group for total consideration of
$1,070,000.
36 GlaxoSmithKline plc investment in subsidiary companies
During 2002, GlaxoSmithKline plc initiated an internal reorganisation, as a result of which the company acquired direct investments in
subsidiary companies which had previously been held as indirect investments.122 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to USaccounting principles Summary of material differences between UK and US GAAP
The Financial statements, analyses and reconciliations presented in Capitalised interest
this Note represent the financial information which would be Under UK GAAP, the Group does not capitalise interest. USGAAP
required if US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (USGAAP) requires interest incurred as part of the cost of constructing fixed
had been applied instead of UKGAAP. assets to be capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
The most significant difference between US and UK GAAP is that, Computer software
under UKGAAP, the combination of Glaxo Wellcome plc and Under UK GAAP, the Group capitalises costs incurred in acquiring
SmithKline Beecham plc has been accounted for as a merger and developing computer software for internal use where the
(pooling of interest) while under USGAAP this transaction is software supports a significant business system and the
accounted for as a purchase business combination with Glaxo expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset. For US GAAP,
Wellcome acquiring SmithKline Beecham. the Group applies SOP 98-1 ‘Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use’ which
GlaxoSmithKline plc was formed to give effect to a Scheme of
restricts the categories of costs which can be capitalised.
Arrangement for the merger of Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
Beecham plc effective on 27thDecember 2000. GlaxoSmithKline plc Goodwill and intangible fixed assets
acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Glaxo Wellcome plc Under UKGAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1998,
and SmithKline Beecham plc in exchange for shares in accounted for under the purchase method, has been eliminated
GlaxoSmithKline plc.Upon completion of the merger the former against shareholders’ funds. Additionally, UKGAAP requires that
shareholders of Glaxo Wellcome held approximately 58.75 per cent on subsequent disposal or closure of a business, any goodwill
and the former shareholders of SmithKline Beecham held previously taken directly to shareholders’ funds is then charged
approximately 41.25 per cent of the issued share capital of against income. Beginning in 1998, the Group changed its
GlaxoSmithKline plc. accounting policy forgoodwill and intangible assets under UK
GAAP in respect of acquisitions from 1998. Under UKGAAP,
As the combination of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
goodwill arising on acquisitions from 1998 is capitalised and
was accounted for as a merger under UKGAAP, the financial
amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years.
statements of GlaxoSmithKline under UKGAAP represent the
combined Financial statements of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Under US GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to
Beecham on a historical basis for 2000. 30 June 2001 was capitalised and amortised over a period not
exceeding 40 years. In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS142
Under US GAAP, this business combination did not qualify for
‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’. SFAS 142 requires that
pooling of interests accounting and Glaxo Wellcome was
goodwill no longer be amortised over its estimated useful life. The
determined to be the accounting acquirer in a purchase acquisition
Group must instead identify and value its reporting units for the
dated 27thDecember 2000. Under US GAAP the financial
purpose of assessing, at least annually, potential impairment of
statements of GlaxoSmithKline prior to the merger are therefore
goodwill allocated to each reporting unit. Additionally, the Group
those of Glaxo Wellcome.
reassesses the useful lives of existing recognised intangible assets.
In view of the proximity of the merger date to the financial year end Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are no longer
date, and the relative insignificance of any business activity between amortised, instead they are tested annually for potential
27th December 2000 and 31st December 2000, the accounting impairment. Separate intangible assets with finite lives continue to
date of the acquisition was for practical purposes taken as be amortised over their useful lives.
31stDecember 2000.
The Group adopted SFAS142 as of 1st January 2002. The
The reconciliation of the consolidated income statements and the implementation of SFAS142 resulted in no impairment of the
consolidated statements of comprehensive income and changes in Group’s goodwill and an initial impairment of £173 million
shareholder equity for the year ended 31st December 2002 (£127 million net of tax) on indefinite-lived assets. This is shown as
correspondingly reflect the purchase method of accounting for a cumulative effect of an accounting change.
theacquisition of SmithKline Beecham by Glaxo Wellcome. The
Under UKGAAP, costs to be incurred in integrating and
income statement has been presented in a US GAAP format and
restructuring the Wellcome, SmithKline Beecham and Block Drug
therefore certain exceptional items under UKGAAP being product
businesses following the acquisitions in 1995, 2000 and 2001
divestments, merger integration costs and, in addition, the write-off
respectively were charged to the profit and loss account post
of in-process research and development have been classified within
acquisition. Under USGAAP, certain of such costs are considered
operating profit.
in the allocation of purchase consideration thereby affecting the
A consolidated balance sheet and a consolidated statement of cash goodwill arising on acquisition.
flows under USGAAP and in USGAAPformat are also presented.
Under UKGAAP certain intangible assets related to specific
These Financial statements reflect both the purchase method of compounds or products which are purchased from a third party
accounting for the combination of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline and are developed for commercial applications are capitalised.
Beecham and also other material adjustments which would be Under USGAAP, payments made for these compounds or products
required if USGAAP had been applied instead of UKGAAP for which are still in development and have not yet received regulatory
theperiods presented. A summary of the purchase accounting approval are charged directly to profit and loss until such time that
adjustments and of other USGAAP adjustments is provided in the they receive regulatory approval.
reconciliations of profit attributable to shareholders and of equity
shareholders’ funds from UK to USGAAP.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 123
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued As a result of the merger certain of the Group’s options vested
immediately requiring the acceleration of compensation expense.
Merger transaction costs
The amount of stock-based compensation expense related to this
Glaxo Wellcome incurred total merger-related transaction costs of
accelerated vesting was £83 million in 2000. The disclosures
£66million, excluding integration and restructuring costs. Under UK
required by SFAS123 are included in Note 34.
GAAP these merger transaction costs were expensed as incurred
during 2000. Under USGAAP, direct acquisition costs of the Additionally, the Group is entitled to receive a tax deduction for the
acquiring company are included as a portion of the purchase amount treated as compensation under US tax rules for employee
consideration. stock options which have been exercised by USemployees during
the year. Under UKGAAP this is treated as a reduction of tax
Restructuring costs expense whereas under USGAAP a portion of this amount is
The requirements for recording a provision for restructuring costs credited to equity.
are different in certain aspects under USGAAP than under UK
GAAP. Accordingly, adjustments have been made to eliminate the Employee Share Ownership Trust (ESOT)
UKGAAPprovisions for restructuring costs that do notmeet US Under UK GAAP shares of the Group’s stock held by the ESOT
GAAPrequirements. arerecorded at cost, less a provision representing the difference
between the cost and the option exercise price, and accounted for
Marketable securities as fixed asset investments. Projected losses on the exercise of the
Marketable securities consist primarily of equity securities and options covered by the shares are recorded through the profit and
certain other liquid investments. Under UKGAAP these securities loss account over the life of theoptions. Under US GAAP shares of
are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Under US the Group’s stock purchased by the ESOT are accounted for within
GAAP these securities are available for sale under Statement of shareholders’ equity at cost. Gainsorlosses arising on subsequent
Financial Accounting Standard No 115 (SFAS 115) ‘Accounting for issuance of the shares to employees to satisfy share options are
certain investments in debt and equity securities’ and are carried at recorded as adjustments toshareholders’ equity.
fair value, with the unrealised gains and losses, net of tax, reported
as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Derivative instruments
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 133, ‘Accounting
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities’ (SFAS 133) as
The key differences between UK (SSAP 24) and USGAAP in relation
amended by SFAS 137 and SFAS 138 and as interpreted by the
to defined benefit pension plans are:
Derivatives Implementation Group, was adopted by the Group with
• under UKGAAP the effect of variations in cost can be effect from 1st January 2001. SFAS 133 establishes accounting and
accumulated at successive valuations and amortised on an reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
aggregate basis. Under US GAAP the amortisation of the derivative instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively,
transition asset and the costs of past service benefit referred to as derivatives) and for hedging activities. Under UK
improvements are separately tracked: experience gains/losses GAAP, some derivative instruments used for hedging are not
are dealt with on an aggregate basis but amortised only if recognised on the balance sheet and the matching principle is
outside a 10 per cent corridor. used to match the gain or loss under these hedging contracts to
the foreign currency transaction or profits to which they relate.
• UK GAAP allows measurements of plan assets and liabilities to
SFAS 133 requires that an entity recognise all derivatives as either
be based on the result of the latest actuarial valuation. USGAAP
assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and measure
requires measurement of plan assets and liabilities to be made
those instruments at fair value. Changes in fair value over the
at the date of the Financial statements or up to three months
period are recorded in current earnings unless hedge accounting
prior to that date.
is obtained. The Group does not designate any of its derivatives as
• The pension adjustment also includes the impact of changes in qualifying hedge instruments under SFAS133. SFAS 133 prescribes
minimum pension liabilities included within accumulated other requirements for designation and documentation of hedging
comprehensive income. relationships and ongoing assessments of effectiveness in order to
qualify for hedge accounting.
During 2002, the Group decided to align the measurement date
for all of its pension plans to 31st December as certain of the The Group also evaluates contracts for ‘embedded’ derivatives, and
Group’s plans had a measurement date for pension assets and considers whether any embedded derivatives have to be bifurcated,
liabilities of 30th September. or separated, from the host contracts in accordance with SFAS 133
requirements. If embedded derivatives exist and are not clearly and
The impact, reflected as a cumulative effect of an accounting
closely related to the host contract, they are accounted for
change, was a £37 million credit, net of tax, to income.
separately from the host contract as derivatives.
The disclosures required by SFAS 132 are included in this Note.
Gains and losses related to the fair value adjustments of all
derivative instruments are classified in the consolidated statement
Stock-based compensation
of income and cash flows in accordance with the nature of the
Under UK GAAP share options are accounted for as equity when
derivative.
exercised, valued at the issuance price. Under USGAAP, the Group
applies SFAS 123 ‘Accounting for stock-based compensation’ and The fair value and book value of derivative instruments in respect
related accounting interpretations in accounting for its option plans of financial assets and liabilities as at 31st December 2002 is
which require options to be fair valued at their grant date and disclosed in the ‘Classification and fair value of financial assets
included in profit and loss over the vesting period of the options. and liabilities’ table in Note 32.124 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued Comprehensive income statement
The requirement of SFAS 130 ‘Reporting comprehensive income’ to
Valuation of derivative instruments
provide a comprehensive income statement is met under UKGAAP
The fair value of derivative instruments is sensitive to movements in
by the Statement of total recognised gains and losses (pages 76 to
the underlying market rates and variables. The Group monitors the
77). A statement of comprehensive income under USGAAP for the
fair value of derivative instruments on a periodic basis. Derivatives
three years in the period ending 31st December 2002 is presented
including interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps are valued
on pages 126 and 127. Under USGAAP the statement includes the
using standard valuation models, counterparty valuations, or third-
net impact of gains and losses on equity and liquid investments and
party valuations. Standard valuation models used by the Group
translation adjustments.
consider relevant discount rates, the market yield curve on the
valuation date, forward currency exchange rates and counterparty
Recent Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
risk. All significant rates and variables are obtained from market
pronouncements
sources. All valuations are based on the remaining term to maturity
In June 2001, the FASB approved SFAS143 ‘Accounting for
of the instrument. Foreign exchange contracts are valued using
Obligations Associated with the Retirement of Long-Lived Assets’
forward rates observed from quoted prices in the relevant markets
which requires that the fair values of the obligation associated
when possible. The Group assumes parties to long-term contracts
with the retirement of long-lived assets be capitalised as part of
are economically viable but reserves the right to exercise early
the cost. This is required to be implemented by the Group with
termination rights if economically beneficial when such rights exist
effect from 1st January 2003. The Group does not believe the
in the contract.
adoption of this standard will have a material impact on its
results.
Dividends
Under UK GAAP, dividends proposed are provided for in the year in On 1st January 2002, SFAS 144 ‘Accounting for the Impairment
respect of which they are recommended by the Board ofDirectors or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets’ was adopted by the Group.
for approval by the shareholders. Under USGAAP, suchdividends SFAS144 develops one accounting model for long-lived assets,
are not provided for until declared by the Board ofDirectors. including discontinued operations to be disposed of by sale. It
requires that all long-lived assets be measured at the lower of
Deferred taxation
carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell whether reported in
Under UK GAAP the Group has implemented in 2002 FRS19
continuing or discontinued operations. The adoption of SFAS144
‘Deferred Tax’. This requires deferred tax to be accounted for on a
has not had a material impact on the Group’s financial
full provision basis, similar to the requirement for USGAAP, rather
statements.
than a partial provision basis as in 2001 and earlier years. As a
consequence the Profit attributable to shareholders and Equity In April 2002, SFAS145 ‘Rescission of FASBStatements no. 4, 44
shareholders’ funds under UKGAAP and the deferred tax and 64, Amendment of FASBStatement no. 13 and Technical
adjustments under USGAAP for prior periods have been restated. Corrections’ was issued. The statement updates, clarifies and
There is no impact to Net loss and Shareholders’ equity under US simplifies existing accounting standards. The Group does not
GAAP as previously reported. The adoption of FRS19 has believe the adoption of this standard will have a material impact
eliminated most of the differences for deferred tax that previously on its results.
existed between UKGAAP and USGAAP. As a result, the
SFAS146 ‘Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
adjustment now primarily relates to the deferred tax effect of other
Activities’, was issued in June 2002. SFAS146 requires companies
USGAAP adjustments.
to recognise costs associated with exit or disposal activities when
they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an
Exceptional items
exit or disposal plan and is to be applied prospectively to exit or
Items classified as exceptional under UK GAAP do not meet the
disposal activities initiated after 31st December 2002. The Group
definition of extraordinary under US GAAP and are therefore
is currently assessing the impact of this standard.
classified as operating expense.
In November 2002, the FASB published Interpretation no. 45,
Consolidated statement of cash flows ‘Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosures requirements for
The USGAAP cash flow statement reports changes in cash and Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
cash equivalents, which includes short-term highly liquid Others’(FIN45). FIN45 expands on the accounting guidance of
investments with original maturities of three months or less. other SFASs. FIN45’s provisions for initial recognition and
Onlythree categories of cash flows are reported: operating measurement should be applied to guarantees issued or modified
activities (including tax and interest); investing activities (including after 31st December 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective
capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals together with for financial years ending after 15th December 2002. The Group
cashflows from available for sale current asset investments); does not believe that the adoption of FIN45 will have a material
andfinancing activities (including dividends paid). A statement impact on its results.
ofcash flows is presented on page 128.
In January 2003, the FASB published Interpretation no. 46
‘Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities’ (FIN46). Under FIN46
Cash and cash equivalents
the primary beneficiary of the entity must consolidate certain
Under UK GAAP the cash balance includes only cash at bank and
entities known as Variable Interest Entities. The measurement
other cash balances. Under USGAAP cash and cash equivalents
principles will apply to the Group’s 2003 Financial statements. The
include cash at bank and certain liquid investments with original
Group does not believe that the adoption of FIN46 will have a
maturities of three months or less.
material impact on its results.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 125
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2002 2001
Consolidated balance sheet underUS GAAP £m £m
Assets
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents 1,082 832
Marketable securities 1,466 1,647
Accounts and notes receivable 3,657 3,647
Inventories 2,080 2,090
Prepaid expenses 862 744
Deferred income taxes 1,133 1,242
Total current assets 10,280 10,202
Goodwill 18,160 18,102
Intangible assets 19,961 24,223
Property, plant and equipment 6,864 7,015
Investments in affiliates 1,033 1,038
Other assets 1,055 491
Deferred income taxes 318 270
Total assets 57,671 61,341
Liabilities and Shareholders’ equity
Current liabilities
Cash overdrafts 193 230
Accounts payable 715 760
Short-term borrowings and capital lease obligations 1,358 1,894
Income taxes 1,449 1,672
Dividends payable 538 555
Deferred income taxes 113 113
Other accrued liabilities 3,801 3,601
Total current liabilities 8,167 8,825
Long-term borrowings and capital lease obligations 3,092 2,108
Other liabilities 4,197 1,747
Deferred income taxes 6,486 7,692
Total liabilities 21,942 20,372
Minority interest 807 862
Contingent liabilities and commitments Notes 24 and 26
Shareholders’ equity
Common stock, £0.25 per share par value; 10,000,000,000 shares authorised;
6,024,266,345 (2002) and 6,172,965,989 (2001) shares issued 1,506 1,543
Redeemable preference shares, £1.00 per share par value; 50,000 shares authorised,
nil (2002) and nil (2001) shares outstanding – –
Additional paid-in capital 43,749 45,532
Retained deficit and cumulative other comprehensive loss (7,266) (3,794)
Treasury stock (3,067) (3,174)
Total shareholders’ equity 34,922 40,107
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 57,671 61,341
Certain items for the year ended 31st December 2001 have been reclassified for comparative purposes.126 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2002
Glaxo- Glaxo-
SmithKline US GAAP SmithKline
(UK GAAP) adjustments (US GAAP)
Reconciliation of consolidated income statement £m £m £m
Revenues 21,212 – 21,212
Cost of sales (4,609) 13 (4,596)
Gross profit 16,603 13 16,616
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (8,041) (347) (8,388)
Research and development expenditure (2,900) (85) (2,985)
Trading profit 5,662 (419) 5,243
Other operating income/(expense) (111) 71 (40)
Amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets – (4,195) (4,195)
Write-off in-process R&D acquired – – –
Product divestments 11 7 18
Merger transaction costs – – –
Operating profit 5,562 (4,536) 1,026
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 75 6 81
Profit/(loss) on disposal of interest in associate – – –
Disposal of businesses 10 – 10
Profit before interest 5,647 (4,530) 1,117
Net interest expense (141) (51) (192)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 5,506 (4,581) 925
Taxation (1,461) 1,169 (292)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,045 (3,412) 633
Minority interests (110) – (110)
Preference share dividends (20) – (20)
Net income/(loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 3,915 (3,412) 503
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles – (90) (90)
Net income/(loss) 3,915 (3,502) 413
Basic and diluted net income/(loss) per share before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under US GAAP (pence) 8.5p
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per share under USGAAP(pence) (1.5)p
Basic and diluted net income/(loss) per share after cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP (pence) 7.0p
Basic and diluted net income/(loss) per ADS before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under US GAAP ($) $0.26
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles per ADS under USGAAP($) $(0.05)
Basic and diluted net income/(loss) per ADS after cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles under USGAAP ($) $0.21
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and
2002
changes in shareholders’ equity under USGAAP £m
Shareholders’ equity at beginning of year 40,107
Net income/(loss) 413
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (73)
Unrealised (loss)/gain on equity investments, net of tax (83)
Unrealised gain/(loss) on liquid investments, net of tax 7
Unrealised gain on derivatives 61
Minimum pension liability (1,446)
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle –
Comprehensive (loss)/income (1,121)
Dividends (2,310)
Shares purchased and cancelled (2,220)
Shares issued 56
Employee Share Ownership Plan 58
Shares issued to purchase SmithKline Beecham –
Other 352
Shareholders’ equity at end of year 34,922
Certain items for the years ended 31st December 2000 and 2001 have been reclassified for comparative purposes.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 127
2001 2000
Less SmithKline
Glaxo- Glaxo- Beecham
SmithKline US GAAP Glaxo- SmithKline pre-acquisition US GAAP Glaxo-
(UK GAAP) adjustments SmithKline (UK GAAP) (UK GAAP) adjustments SmithKline
(restated) (restated) (USGAAP) (restated) (restated) (restated) (USGAAP)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
20,489 – 20,489 18,079 (8,520) – 9,559
(4,733) (324) (5,057) (3,962) 1,802 (32) (2,192)
15,756 (324) 15,432 14,117 (6,718) (32) 7,367
(8,408) (28) (8,436) (7,136) 3,578 (65) (3,623)
(2,651) (140) (2,791) (2,526) 1,158 (28) (1,396)
4,697 (492) 4,205 4,455 (1,982) (125) 2,348
37 (75) (38) 274 (23) – 251
– (3,577) (3,577) – – (725) (725)
– – – – – (6,324) (6,324)
– – – 1,416 (1,422) – (6)
– – – (121) 55 66 –
4,734 (4,144) 590 6,024 (3,372) (7,108) (4,456)
71 – 71 57 (57) – –
96 (117) (21) 144 – – 144
(296) 204 (92) (14) 14 – –
4,605 (4,057) 548 6,211 (3,415) (7,108) (4,312)
(88) 34 (54) (182) 95 – (87)
4,517 (4,023) 494 6,029 (3,320) (7,108) (4,399)
(1,333) 827 (506) (1,747) 956 (17) (808)
3,184 (3,196) (12) 4,282 (2,364) (7,125) (5,207)
(97) – (97) (120) 99 – (21)
(34) – (34) (56) 56 – –
3,053 (3,196) (143) 4,106 (2,209) (7,125) (5,228)
– – – – – – –
3,053 (3,196) (143) 4,106 (2,209) (7,125) (5,228)
(2.4)p (145.6)p
– –
(2.4)p (145.6)p
$(0.07) $(4.43)
– –
$(0.07) $(4.43)
2001 2000
£m £m
44,995 7,230
(143) (5,228)
(107) 88
(381) 356
(1) 1
24 –
– –
5 –
(603) (4,783)
(2,872) (1,334)
(1,274) –
144 121
(501) (472)
– 43,919
218 314
40,107 44,995128 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2002 2001 2000
Consolidated statement of cash flows under USGAAP £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Net income/(loss) 413 (143) (5,228)
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
Depreciation 755 742 427
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,781 3,577 735
Write-off in-process R&D acquired – – 6,324
Impairment of goodwill, tangible and intangible fixed assets 2,829 253 47
(Gain)/loss on sale of fixed assets and other productive assets (46) 99 (152)
Deferred taxes (1,216) (877) 28
Stock compensation 331 162 254
Tax benefit from exercise of stock options 13 56 9
Income in associate (75) (71) –
Loss on sale of associate and investment – (5) –
Derivatives (8) (15) –
Other (41) (93) –
Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions:
(Increase)/decrease in inventory (2) 550 21
Increase in trade and other debtors (72) (77) (281)
Increase in trade and other creditors 426 368 444
Increase/(decrease) in pension and other provisions 257 80 (92)
Net cash provided by operating activities 5,345 4,606 2,536
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of fixed assets (1,080) (1,111) (416)
Acquisition of intangible assets (5) (80) (76)
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham – cash received on acquisition – – 1,129
Acquisition of other new businesses – net of cash acquired (17) (803) (24)
Proceeds from disposition of fixed assets and businesses 61 211 12
Proceeds from sale of intangible fixed assets – 6 –
(Increase)/decrease in equity investments (10) 92 194
Net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities (1,051) (1,685) 819
Cash flows from financing activities
(Increase)/decrease in liquid investments (34) 1,006 (235)
Proceeds from additional borrowings 1,094 973 –
Reduction in debt (89) (112) (3)
Purchase of treasury stock – (795) (471)
Dividends paid (2,432) (2,454) (1,334)
Net repayment of short-term loans (408) (718) (193)
Net (repayment of)/increase in cash overdrafts (27) 38 (121)
Redemption of preference shares issued by a subsidiary – (457) –
Ordinary shares purchased for cancellation (2,220) (1,274) –
Issue of share capital 114 338 121
Other – (28) 13
Net cash used in financing activities (4,002) (3,483) (2,223)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 292 (562) 1,132
Exchange rate movements (42) 15 1
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 832 1,379 246
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1,082 832 1,379
Supplemental cash flow information
Cash paid during the year for:
Interest 215 196 235
Income taxes 1,633 1,717 635
Non-cash investing and financing activities
Under the purchase acquisition dated 27th December 2000 the Group acquired all the outstanding shares of SmithKline Beecham
in exchange for shares ofGlaxoSmithKline. In conjunction with the acquisition, liabilities were assumed as follows:
Fair value of assets acquired 57,158
Fair value of shares issued 43,919
Fair value of liabilities assumed 13,239Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 129
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders’ funds which would be required if US GAAP had been
applied instead of UK GAAP. These adjustments have been reflected in the income statements and balance sheets presented in accordance
with USGAAP.
2001 2000
2002 (restated) (restated)
Profit £m £m £m
Profit attributable to shareholders under UK GAAP 3,915 3,053 4,106
Less: SmithKline Beecham’s pre-acquisition profit attributable to
shareholders under UK GAAP and merger alignment adjustments – – (2,237)
USGAAP adjustments:
Write-off of SmithKline Beecham in-process R&D acquired – – (6,324)
Capitalised interest 25 18 15
Computer software 20 (3) 13
Purchased intangibles (86) (140) –
Reversal/(amortisation) of goodwill 18 (1,261) (559)
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (4,184) (2,266) (166)
Recognition of cost of sales on fair value step-up of inventory – (298) –
Disposal of purchased investment – (117) –
Product divestments 7 – –
Loss on disposal of subsidiary – 204 –
Pensions and post-retirement benefits (138) (12) 75
Stock-based compensation (331) (162) (254)
Provision against ESOT shares 51 (108) 26
Derivative instruments 8 15 –
Restructuring 37 182 –
Tax benefits on exercise of US stock options (13) (56) (9)
Merger transaction costs – – 66
Deferred taxation 1,182 883 20
Impairment of equity investments (8) (75) –
Net income/(loss) under US GAAP before cumulative effect of changes
in accounting principles 503 (143) (5,228)
Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (90) – –
Net income/(loss) after cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 413 (143) (5,228)
2001
2002 (restated)
Equity shareholders’ funds £m £m
Equity shareholders’ funds under UK GAAP 6,581 7,390
USGAAPadjustments:
Tangible fixed assets 49 44
Investments 829 879
Product rights 18,590 22,927
Capitalised interest 175 155
Computer software (9) (29)
Goodwill 17,989 17,928
Other intangible assets (438) (377)
Unrealised gains on marketable securities 113 163
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits (1,198) 299
Employee Share Ownership Trust (2,826) (2,936)
Restructuring costs (6) (46)
Derivative instruments 98 29
Dividends 754 718
Deferred taxation (5,779) (7,037)
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 34,922 40,107
Certain items for the years ended 31st December 2001 and 2000 have been reclassified for comparative purposes.
During 2002, FRS19 ‘Deferred Tax’ has been implemented by the Group under UKGAAP. This FRS requires deferred tax to be
accounted for on a full provision basis, rather than a partial provision basis as in 2001 and earlier years. This change has been
accounted for as a prior year adjustment for UKGAAP purposes and comparative adjustments to arrive at USGAAP have been
restated as necessary. This change had no impact on USGAAP results.130 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued (c)The market value of investments was included in the book value
of SmithKline Beecham’s net assets under US GAAP. The increase
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham
in investments related to increases in the fair market value of
Under US GAAP, the Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline prior to
non-marketable securities at 31st December 2000. Included
the merger are those of Glaxo Wellcome, the US GAAP accounting
inthis amount are increases to equity investments. These equity
acquirer. The acquisition of SmithKline Beecham is accounted for
investments were measured at fair value and any excess of the
under the purchase method as of the date of the merger,
fair value over the underlying tangible assets and liabilities was
27thDecember 2000.
recognised as goodwill within investments. This goodwill is no
longer amortised, but reviewed annually for impairment.
Purchase accounting adjustments
In order to determine the proper allocation of purchase price (d)The fair value attributed to pension obligations reflected the
related to the acquired assets of SmithKline Beecham under US recognition of previously unrecognised actuarial gains/losses,
GAAP purchase accounting, the cost of acquisition is calculated prior service costs and transition amounts. The amounts recognised
using the market value of the shares issued, the fair value of vested werebased on actuarial assessments at the acquisitiondate.
options exchanged and direct external acquisition costs and then
(e)The fair value attributed to other intangible assets related
allocated to the fair value of net assets acquired. As a result of the
primarily to management’s estimate of the value of product
fair value exercise, increases in the values of SmithKline Beecham’s
rights (inclusive of their respective patents and trade marks)
inventory, tangible fixed assets, investments and pension obligations
onexisting products and of the assembled workforce. Thefair
were recognised and fair market values attributed to its other
value of the product rights was determined based on a
intangible assets, mainly product rights (inclusive of patents and
discounted net future cash flow analysis of SmithKline Beecham’s
trade marks), assembled workforce and in-process research and
approved product portfolio which included all existing approved
development, together with appropriate deferred taxation effects.
products within the pharmaceutical therapeutic areas and
The difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value
consumer healthcare product portfolios. Any supplemental
of the assets and liabilities of SmithKline Beecham has been
products in the development process which built upon existing
recorded asgoodwill. The amount allocated to in-process research
chemical entities within existing areas andwhich were not
and development is required under US GAAP to be expensed
subject to separate US Food and Drug Administration approval
immediately in thefirst reporting period after the business
were also included. Management based the estimates of the
combination, which for GlaxoSmithKline was the period ended
weighted average useful life of the product rights on the future
31stDecember 2000. Fair value adjustments to the recorded
period over which the substantial majority of the estimated net
amount of inventory were expensed in 2001 and additional
future cash flow value was expected to be realised. The fair value
amortisation and depreciation will berecorded in respect of the
of the assembled workforce was reclassified togoodwill under
fair value adjustments to tangible and intangible assets and the
SFAS 142 in 2002 and will be reviewed annually for impairment.
resulting goodwill over the periods of their respective economic
useful lives. (f) The amount of total consideration allocated to SmithKline
Beecham’s in-process research and development projects (IPR&D)
The adjustments to the assets and liabilities of SmithKline Beecham
wasestimated using current estimates of the status and
to reflect the fair values and allocation of the excess purchase
prospects of its R&D portfolio. The IPR&D included only those
consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired, based
identified projects that had advanced to a stage of development
onmanagement best estimates of fair value, are summarised in
where management believed reasonable estimates of projected
thetable opposite and discussed below:
cash flows could be prepared. This did not include basic
(a)The total assumed purchase consideration was calculated discovery and the portfolio of gene patents. The reported IPR&D
bymultiplying the number of GlaxoSmithKline shares issued value was not intended to reflect the present value of all
toSmithKline Beecham’s shareholders for all outstanding development activities under way. The value allocated to the
SmithKline Beecham shares by the average fair value of Glaxo IPR&D was determined utilising a risk adjusted income approach
Wellcome securities. The average fair value of Glaxo Wellcome that included earnings discounted by the appropriate cost of
securities was calculated over a period of four days prior capital for the investment. Estimates of future cash flows related
to and subsequent to theannouncement of the merger on to individual IPR&D projects were based on existing estimates of
17th January 2000. The total assumed purchase consideration revenues and contribution margin for the project.
also included the fair value of SmithKline Beecham vested
(g)Additional liabilities related to restructuring costs directly linked
options exchanged for vested options in GlaxoSmithKline.
to plans that were in place at the date of the acquisition. These
The total number of SmithKline Beecham vested options was
liabilities reflected the costs to close certain SmithKline Beecham
multiplied bythe respective fair value of each of the ordinary
manufacturing sites and redundancy costs. The other liabilities
shares and ADR plans determined at 17thJanuary 2000.
related to additional deferred tax liabilities previously not
(b)The increase in fair value of inventory and fixed assets was recognised.
determined based on the difference between the carrying
(h)Deferred taxes were computed on the excess of fair value over
value and the market value of these assets. The increase to
book value, other than for goodwill and in-process research and
inventory was expensed in 2001, as all inventory was sold. The
development, using the applicable weighted average statutory
increase infixed assets was allocated to its respective category
tax rates.
and is being depreciated over the remaining useful lives of
these assets. (i) Goodwill represents the remainder of unallocated purchase
consideration and now includes the value originally allocated to
workforce. Goodwill is no longer amortised under SFAS142,
but rather reviewed annually for impairment.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 131
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Purchase accounting adjustments £m
Total assumed purchase consideration for outstanding shares (a) 43,919
Costs and fees of transaction 66
Less:
Book value of SmithKline Beecham net assets – US GAAP (less goodwill) 2,742
Excess fair value of inventory (b) 267
Excess fair value of tangible fixed assets (b) 15
Excess fair value of investments (c) 1,042
Excess fair value of pension asset (d) 81
Fair value attributed to other intangible assets (e) 24,382
Fair value attributed to workforce (now considered goodwill) (e) 483
Fair value attributed to in-process R&D projects (f) 6,324
Additional liabilities assumed (g) (110)
Deferred tax liabilities related to purchase price adjustments (h) (7,669)
Goodwill (i) 16,428132 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following tables present details of the Group’s total purchased identifiable intangible assets which are subject to amortisation.
Accumulated
31st December 2002 Gross amortisation Impairment Net
£m £m £m £m
Product rights 20,120 (3,693) (2,076) 14,351
Brands 1,151 (58) – 1,093
Total 21,271 (3,751) (2,076) 15,444
Following the launch in the USA of a generic Augmentinproduct, the carrying value of product rights relating to Augmentinhas been
reviewed and an impairment of £1,667 million recorded. The carrying values of certain other product rights have also been reviewed and
an impairment of £409 million recorded. Fair values were determined using a discounted cash flow model.
As discussed in Note 30 ‘Legal proceedings’, a number of distributors of generic drugs have filed applications to market generic versions of
Paxilin the USA prior to the expiration of the Group’s patent. The carrying value of the Paxilproduct rights under USGAAP is £3.6 billion
at 31st December 2002. The Group will continue to keep the position under review.
Accumulated
31st December 2001 Gross amortisation Impairment Net
£m £m £m £m
Product rights 20,116 (1,865) – 18,251
Brands 1,151 (29) – 1,122
Total 21,267 (1,894) – 19,373
The estimated future amortisation expense for the next five years for purchased identifiable intangible assets subject to amortisation as of
31st December 2002 is as follows:
Year £m
2003 1,636
2004 1,629
2005 1,629
2006 1,588
2007 1,574
Total 8,056
Carrying amount of identifiable intangible assets which are not subject to amortisation 2002 2001
£m £m
Brands 4,345 4,850
Following the initial implementation of SFAS142 in 2002, the carrying values of the brands determined to have indefinite lives were
reviewed and an impairment of £173 million (£127 million net of tax) was recognised. This is recorded as a cumulative effect of a change
in accounting principle. In addition, a £332 million charge was recognised during 2002 as a result of changes in market conditions and
management forecasts for certain brand intangibles.
The following table presents the changes in goodwill allocated to the Group’s reportable segments during 2002. The carrying value of the
assembled workforce at 31st December 2001, net of tax, has been reclassified into opening balance of goodwill in accordance with
SFAS142.
At 31.12.01 Acquired Impairment Exchange At 31.12.02
£m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 15,670 23 – (14) 15,679
Consumer Healthcare 2,503 – – (22) 2,481
Total 18,173 23 – (36) 18,160
If the Group had accounted for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that have indefinite lives under SFAS 142 for the years ended
31st December 2000 and 2001, the impact on reported USGAAP results would have been as follows:
2001 2000
£m £m
Net income under USGAAP (143) (5,228)
Amortisation, net of tax:
Goodwill 1,475 570
Brands 124 –
Adjusted net income under USGAAP 1,456 (4,658)
Adjusted basic net income per share (pence) 24.0 (129.7)
Adjusted diluted net income per share (pence) 23.8 (129.7)Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 133
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Earnings per share under US GAAP
2002 2001 2000
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 5,912 6,064 3,591
Adjustments:
Share options 22 52 35
Diluted 5,934 6,116 3,626
Shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Trusts are excluded from shares in issue.
Taxation
2001 2000
2002 (restated) (restated)
Total tax expense £m £m £m
UK GAAP:
Current tax expense 1,432 1,386 808
Deferred tax expense 29 (53) (17)
Total tax expense 1,461 1,333 791
US GAAP:
Current tax expense 1,445 1,442 817
Deferred tax expense (1,737) (936) (9)
Total tax expense (292) 506 808
Deferred taxation under USGAAP
Classification of GlaxoSmithKline’s deferred taxation liabilities and assets under US GAAP is as follows:
2002 2001
£m £m
Liabilities
Stock valuation adjustment (113) (113)
Current deferred taxation liabilities (113) (113)
Accelerated capital allowances (710) (691)
Product rights (5,620) (6,126)
Other timing differences (156) (1,030)
Total deferred taxation liabilities (6,599) (7,960)
Assets
Intra-Group profit 487 375
Other timing differences 646 842
Current deferred taxation assets 1,133 1,217
Asset disposal (125) (161)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 111 221
Tax losses 93 97
Manufacturing restructuring 52 71
Legal and other disputes 124 25
Other timing differences 63 42
Total deferred taxation assets 1,451 1,512
Net deferred taxation under US GAAP (5,148) (6,448)
The difference between the UK effective taxation rate and the US effective taxation rate is primarily related to the fair value adjustments for
goodwill and intangibles related to the acquisitions of Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.134 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Segment information under USGAAP
Under UK GAAP, the segment information presented in Note 6 includes results of operations and other information on a historical
combined Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham basis for 2002, 2001 and 2000.
Under US GAAP, the segment information for results of operations for 2002 and 2001 reflect the merged operations of GlaxoSmithKline,
while for 2000 it relates to Glaxo Wellcome only as this period is, for practical purposes, regarded as being prior to the acquisition of
SmithKline Beecham. Glaxo Wellcome operated in only one segment – Pharmaceuticals. Segment information in respect of assets relates
to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham on a consolidated basis at 31st December 2002 and 2001 as the acquisition of SmithKline
Beecham by Glaxo Wellcome occurred on 27th December 2000.
2001 2000
2002 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
USA 10,807 10,087 4,314
Europe 6,064 5,855 2,959
International 4,341 4,547 2,286
External turnover 21,212 20,489 9,559
Turnover by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 17,995 17,205 9,559
Consumer Healthcare 3,217 3,284 –
External turnover 21,212 20,489 9,559
Operating profit/(loss) by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 876 565 (4,456)
Consumer Healthcare 150 25 –
Operating profit/(loss) 1,026 590 (4,456)
Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 11,096 10,517 4,494
Europe 10,423 10,704 5,375
International 6,824 7,540 3,370
Gross turnover 28,343 28,761 13,239
USA (168) (327) (176)
Europe (3,873) (4,372) (2,271)
International (3,090) (3,573) (1,233)
Inter-segment turnover (7,131) (8,272) (3,680)
USA 10,928 10,190 4,318
Europe 6,550 6,332 3,104
International 3,734 3,967 2,137
External turnover 21,212 20,489 9,559
Profit before tax by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 418 (938) (2,850)
Europe 795 1,305 (670)
International (187) 223 (936)
Operating profit/(loss) 1,026 590 (4,456)
Share of profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings 81 71 –
Profit/(loss) on disposal of businesses and/or interest in associates 10 (113) 144
Net interest expense (192) (54) (87)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 925 494 (4,399)
Profit/(loss) before taxation 925 494 (4,399)
Taxation (292) (506) (808)
Minority interests and preference share dividends (130) (131) (21)
Net income/(loss) before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 503 (143) (5,228)
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (90) – –
Net income/(loss) 413 (143) (5,228)Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 135
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2002 2001
Total assets by business sector £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 46,706 52,391
Consumer Healthcare 10,965 8,950
Total assets 57,671 61,341
Total assets by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 22,727 25,741
Europe 20,982 20,865
International 11,414 12,256
Total operating assets 55,123 58,862
Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities 2,548 2,479
Total assets 57,671 61,341
2002 2001
Total liabilities by business sector £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 16,816 15,757
Consumer Healthcare 5,126 4,615
Total liabilities 21,942 20,372
Total liabilities by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 8,710 7,971
Europe 9,351 9,112
International 3,881 3,289
Total liabilities 21,942 20,372
2002 2001
Plant,
Land and equipment Computer Assets in
buildings and vehicles software construction Total Total
Tangible fixed assets by location of subsidiary undertaking £m £m £m £m £m £m
USA 691 379 29 378 1,477 1,611
Europe 1,729 1,833 111 649 4,322 4,210
International 533 370 11 151 1,065 1,194
Total 2,953 2,582 151 1,178 6,864 7,015
UK segment
Information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market region, is considered the
Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
2002 2001 2000
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,366 1,328 474
Gross turnover 4,945 5,388 1,241
Inter-segment turnover (3,230) (3,753) (562)
Turnover by location of subsidiary 1,715 1,635 679
Operating profit 373 321 370
Total assets 8,253 6,962136 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Pensions under USGAAP
The SFAS 132 disclosures for the year ended 31st December 2002 and 2001 are provided in relation to the employees of GlaxoSmithKline.
For 2000 the income statement disclosures are provided in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome only.
During 2002, the Group decided to align the measurement date for all of its pension plans. As certain of the Group’s pension plans had
a measurement date for pension assets and liabilities of 30th September, the Group elected to change the measurement date for these
plans from 30th September to 31st December.
As a result, included in 2002 net loss is a £49million credit to income (£37 million net of tax), treated as the cumulative effect of change
in accounting principle.
The average number of persons employed by the Group
2002 2001 2000
(including Directors) during the year Number Number Number
Manufacturing 36,548 37,154 20,477
Selling, general and administration 54,810 55,655 30,765
Research and development 14,808 15,090 9,659
106,166 107,899 60,901
2002 2001 2000
Pension and other post-retirement costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 103 26 6
US pension schemes 67 70 59
Other overseas pension schemes 51 70 31
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 78 57 16
Post-employment costs 40 28 7
339 251 119
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 149 123 57
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 48 11 10
Defined contribution schemes 24 32 29
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 78 57 16
Post-employment costs 40 28 7
339 251 119
The disclosures below include the additional information required by SFAS 132. The pension costs of the UK, US and major overseas
defined benefit pension plans have been restated in the following tables in accordance with US GAAP. Pension costs in 2002 of
£12million, (2001 –£17 million, 2000 – £35 million) in respect of minor retirement plans, which have not been recalculated in
accordance with the requirements of SFAS 87, have been excluded.
2002 2001 2000
The net periodic pension cost/(income) for the major retirement plans comprised: £m £m £m
Service cost 219 194 119
Interest cost 388 351 161
Expected return on plan assets (470) (508) (253)
Amortisation of prior service cost 20 15 16
Amortisation of transition obligation (6) (9) (12)
Recognised net actuarial gain 3 (57) (70)
Net periodic pension cost/(income) under US GAAP 154 (14) (39)
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 56 2 7
Adjustment for change in accounting principle (62)
The major assumptions used in computing the above pension cost/(income) were: %pa %pa %pa
Rates of future pay increases 4.25 4.5 4.6
Discount rate 6.0 6.25 6.5
Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets 7.75 8.25 7.0
In aggregate, average international plan assumptions did not vary significantly from US assumptions.Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 137
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2002 2001
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 6,372 5,560
Adjustment for change in accounting principle 153 –
Amendments 24 32
Service cost 219 194
Interest cost 388 351
Plan participants’ contributions 16 30
Actuarial loss 51 114
Benefits paid (324) (260)
Acquisition – 326
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 35 2
Exchange (174) 23
Benefit obligation at end of year 6,760 6,372
Benefit obligation at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 6,087 2,995
2002 2001
Change in plan assets £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 5,385 6,452
Adjustment for change in accounting principle 383 –
Actual return on plan assets (913) (1,106)
Employer contribution 457 82
Plan participants’ contributions 16 30
Benefits paid (324) (260)
Acquisition – 146
Termination benefits and curtailment costs (3) –
Exchange (146) 41
Fair value of plan assets at end of year 4,855 5,385
Fair value of plan assets at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets 4,741 2,484
Plan assets consist primarily of investments in UK and overseas equities, fixed interest securities, securities linked to the UK Retail Price
Index and property. At 31st December 2002 UK equities included 2.1 million GlaxoSmithKline shares (2001 – 5.3 million shares) with a
market value of £25 million (2001 – £91 million).
2002 2001
Funded status £m £m
Funded status (1,905) (987)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 1,932 724
Unrecognised prior service cost 145 152
Unrecognised transition obligation 29 24
Other – 3
Net amount recognised 201 (84)
2002 2001
Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position consist of: £m £m
Prepaid benefit cost 532 353
Accrued pension liability (331) (437)
Additional required liability (1,618) (373)
Intangible asset 172 36
Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,446 337
Net amount recognised 201 (84)138 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Post-retirement healthcare under USGAAP
The disclosures for 2002 and 2001 are provided in relation to the employees of GlaxoSmithKline. For 2000 the income statement
disclosures are provided in relation to the employees of Glaxo Wellcome only.
2002 2001 2000
Net healthcare cost £m £m £m
Service cost 23 15 5
Interest cost 53 40 13
Amortisation of prior service cost 2 (3) (2)
Net healthcare cost 78 52 16
The major assumptions used in calculating the net healthcare cost were: %pa %pa %pa
Rate of future healthcare inflation 7.0 to 5.0 7.0 to 5.0 7.8 to 4.9
Discount rate 6.75 7.3 7.2
The rate of future healthcare inflation reflects the fact that the benefits of certain groups of participants are capped.
2002 2001
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at beginning of year 788 583
Adjustment for change in accounting principle 13 –
Amendments – (1)
Service cost 77 15
Interest cost 53 40
Plan participants’ contributions 9 2
Actuarial loss 24 202
Benefits paid (50) (31)
Acquisition – (32)
Curtailments – (2)
Exchange (84) 12
Benefit obligation at end of year 830 788
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year – –
Employer and plan participants’ contributions 51 31
Benefits paid (51) (31)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year – –
Funded status
Funded status (830) (788)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 230 216
Unrecognised prior service cost (17) (20)
Other – 8
Accrued post-retirement healthcare cost (617) (584)
1% decrease 1% increase
The impact of a 1 per cent variation in the rate of future healthcare inflation would be: £m £m
Effect on total service and interest cost (9) 8
Effect on provision for post-retirement benefits (85) 71Notes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 139
38 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31stDecember 2002.
Details are given of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business segment and the business activities.
The equity share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise.
All companies are incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
England Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited plc Ph,CH s
(formerly GlaxoSmithKline Services plc)
Brentford +SmithKline Beecham plc Ph,CH e h r d m p
Greenford +Glaxo Group Ltd Ph h
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Research Ltd Ph m
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Ltd Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Ltd Ph r d
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Ltd Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UKLtd Ph m p
Greenford The Wellcome Foundation Ltd Ph p
Brentford +Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Ltd CH e m
Brentford Glaxo Operations UK Ltd Ph p
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome International BV (Footnote (iv)) Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome Investments BV (Footnote (iv)) Ph,CH h
Stockley Park Glaxo Wellcome UK Ltd Ph h m p
Brentford Stafford-Miller Ltd CH m p
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ph m
Belgium Genval GlaxoSmithKline SA (formerly GlaxoSmithKline Belgium SA) Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ph e r d p
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Manufacturing SA Ph e p
Guernsey St. Peter Port S.B. Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Denmark Ballerup GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH m
(formerly SmithKline Beecham A/S)
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma a/s Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Publique SAS CH m
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production SAS Ph m p
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co KG CH m p
Munich SmithKline Beecham GmbH Ph m
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline AEBE (formerly Glaxo Wellcome AEBE) Ph h m p
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKline Kft Ph,CH m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline SpA Ph m p r d
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SpA CH h m
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) SA Ph,CH h
Mamer GlaxoSmithKline Luxembourg SA Ph,CH h140 GlaxoSmithKline Notes to the financial statements
38 Principal Group companies continued
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline BV Ph m
Zeist GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare BV CH m
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Ph m p 97
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare sp zoo CH m
Portugal Lisbon GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos Lda Ph m
(formerly Instituto Luso-Farmaco Lda)
Republic of Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Ltd (Footnote (i)) Ph p
Ireland Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing)Ltd (Footnote (i)) Ph p
Spain Madrid Glaxo Wellcome, SA Ph r m p
Madrid SmithKline Beecham SA Ph m
Sweden Mölndal GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Switzerland) GmbH Ph,CH h
Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline International (Switzerland) GmbH Ph,CH h
Muenchenbuchsee Glaxo Wellcome International (Footnote (i),(v)) Ph,CH h
Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG(formerly Glaxo Wellcome AG) Ph m
Zug Adechsa GmbH Ph e
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret AS Ph m p
(formerly Glaxo Wellcome ISAS)
USA
USA Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Corporation Ph,CH e h r d m p s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare LP CH m p 66
Jersey City Block Drug Company, Inc CH h m p
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Financial Inc Ph,CH f
Wilmington SmithKline Beecham Holdings Corporation Ph,CH h
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc Ph,CH h
Americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc Ph,CH m p r
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia Glaxo Wellcome Australia Ltd Ph m p
Dandenong SmithKline Beecham (Australia) Pty Ltd Ph,CH m
China Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited (formerly Glaxo Wellcome China Ltd) Ph m
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ph m 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ltd (Footnote (ii)) Ph m p 49
Nabha GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ltd (formerly SmithKline CH m p 40
Beecham Consumer Healthcare Ltd) (Footnote (ii))
Malaysia Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
Darul Ehsan
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph, CH m
Pakistan Karachi Glaxo Wellcome Pakistan Ltd Ph, CH m p 79
Philippines Manila Glaxo Wellcome Philippines Inc Ph m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph p
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd (formerly Glaxo Wellcome Asia Pacific Pte Ltd) Ph m
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Ph m p
Taiwan Taipei Glaxo Wellcome Taiwan Ltd Ph m pNotes to the financial statementsGlaxoSmithKline 141
38 Principal Group companies continued
Japan Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline KK Ph m p r 85
Kobe Block Drug Company (Japan) Inc CH m
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina SA Ph,CH m p
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Lda (formerly SmithKline Beecham Brasil Lda) Ph,CH m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia SA Ph,CH m
Mexico Mexico City GlaxoSmithKline Mexico, SAde CV Ph,CH m p
(formerly Glaxo Wellcome Mexico, SA de CV)
Puerto Rico San Juan GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc Ph m
Hato Rey SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc Ph p
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela CA (formerly Glaxo Wellcome CA) Ph m p
Middle East
Africa
Egypt Cairo Glaxo Wellcome Egypt SAE Ph m p 90
South Africa Midrand GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Ph m p
(formerly Glaxo Wellcome South Africa (Pty) Ltd)
Johannesburg SmithKline Beecham Consumer Healthcare (Pty) Ltd CH m p
USA Location Associated undertaking %
USA Teterboro, Quest Diagnostics, Inc. (Footnote (iii)) 23
New Jersey
Footnotes
(i) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment)Act 1986 (Ireland)
(ii) Consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258 (4)(a) of the Companies Act on the grounds of significant
influence
(iii) This holding was reduced to 21 per cent in February 2003, following Quest’s acquisition of Unilab Corporation
(iv) Incorporated in the Netherlands
(v) Incorporated in the Republic of Ireland.
+ directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Business segment: PhPharmaceuticals, CHConsumer Healthcare
Business activity: ddevelopment, eexporting, ffinance, hholding company, iinsurance, mmarketing, pproduction, rresearch,
sservice
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the
Registrar ofCompanies.142 GlaxoSmithKline
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis is provided by quarter of the Group results in sterling for the financial year 2002. The analysis comprises statutory results,
business performance results and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area.
Profit and loss account – statutory 12 months 2002 Q4 2002
£m CER % £m CER %
Sales – Pharmaceuticals 17,995 4,799
– Consumer Healthcare 3,217 869
Total sales 21,212 5,668
Cost of sales (4,609) (1,253)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (8,041) (2,184)
Research and development expenditure (2,900) (905)
Operating costs (15,550) (4,342)
Trading profit – Pharmaceuticals 5,176 1,165
– Consumer Healthcare 486 161
Total trading profit 5,662 1,326
Other operating income/(expense) (111) 23
Operating profit 5,551 1,349
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 75 17
Disposal of businesses 10 4
Product divestments 11 (1)
Profit before interest 5,647 1,369
Net interest payable (141) (36)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 5,506 1,333
Taxation (1,461) (362)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,045 971
Minority interests (110) (31)
Preference share dividends (20) (5)
Earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 3,915 935
Basic earnings per share 66.2p 16.0p
Profit and loss account – business performance
Sales – Pharmaceuticals 17,995 8 4,799 7
– Consumer Healthcare 3,217 2 869 2
Total sales 21,212 7 5,668 7
Cost of sales (4,243) (2) (1,075) (13)
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,543) 5 (2,041) 14
Research and development expenditure (2,732) 9 (847) 24
Operating costs (14,518) (3,963)
Trading profit – Pharmaceuticals 6,148 16 1,520 6
– Consumer Healthcare 546 5 185 4
Total trading profit 6,694 15 1,705 5
Other operating income/(expense) (111) 23
Operating profit 6,583 13 1,728 7
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 75 17
Profit before interest 6,658 1,745
Net interest payable (141) (36)
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 6,517 11 1,709 7
Taxation (1,760) (462)
Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 4,757 10 1,247 6
Minority interests (110) (31)
Preference share dividends (20) (5)
Adjusted earnings (Profit attributable to shareholders) 4,627 11 1,211 6
Adjusted earnings per share 78.3p 13 20.7p 9Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 143
9 months 2002 Q3 2002 6 months 2002 Q2 2002 Q1 2002
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
13,196 4,222 8,974 4,613 4,361
2,348 797 1,551 802 749
15,544 5,019 10,525 5,415 5,110
(3,356) (1,129) (2,227) (1,110) (1,117)
(5,857) (1,913) (3,944) (2,057) (1,887)
(1,995) (706) (1,289) (623) (666)
(11,208) (3,748) (7,460) (3,790) (3,670)
4,011 1,143 2,868 1,512 1,356
325 128 197 113 84
4,336 1,271 3,065 1,625 1,440
(134) (145) 11 16 (5)
4,202 1,126 3,076 1,641 1,435
58 20 38 21 17
6 6 – – –
12 – 12 – 12
4,278 1,152 3,126 1,662 1,464
(105) (42) (63) (29) (34)
4,173 1,110 3,063 1,633 1,430
(1,099) (289) (810) (430) (380)
3,074 821 2,253 1,203 1,050
(79) (31) (48) (24) (24)
(15) (5) (10) (5) (5)
2,980 785 2,195 1,174 1,021
50.2p 13.4p 36.8p 19.7p 17.1p
13,196 9 4,222 6 8,974 10 4,613 9 4,361 10
2,348 2 797 4 1,551 1 802 3 749 (1)
15,544 7 5,019 6 10,525 8 5,415 8 5,110 8
(3,168) 2 (1,041) 1 (2,127) 3 (1,052) – (1,075) 7
(5,502) 2 (1,782) 2 (3,720) 3 (1,950) 5 (1,770) –
(1,885) 4 (641) 3 (1,244) 4 (594) (3) (650) 11
(10,555) (3,464) (7,091) (3,596) (3,495)
4,628 21 1,410 18 3,218 22 1,697 23 1,521 20
361 6 145 8 216 4 122 6 94 2
4,989 19 1,555 17 3,434 21 1,819 22 1,615 19
(134) (145) 11 16 (5)
4,855 15 1,410 13 3,445 17 1,835 17 1,610 16
58 20 38 21 17
4,913 1,430 3,483 1,856 1,627
(105) (42) (63) (29) (34)
4,808 12 1,388 12 3,420 13 1,827 10 1,593 16
(1,298) (375) (923) (493) (430)
3,510 12 1,013 11 2,497 12 1,334 10 1,163 15
(79) (31) (48) (24) (24)
(15) (5) (10) (5) (5)
3,416 12 977 11 2,439 13 1,305 10 1,134 17
57.6p 15 16.7p 15 40.9p 15 21.9p 13 19.0p 18144 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Pharmaceutical sales – total Group
Q4 2002 Q3 2002 Q2 2002 Q1 2002
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 1,227 15 1,124 21 1,166 21 994 10
Depression 813 18 740 29 761 30 623 10
Seroxat/Paxil 566 10 499 20 552 29 438 1
Wellbutrin 247 42 241 52 209 34 185 41
Migraine 233 6 217 4 230 6 208 19
Imigran/Imitrex 211 8 197 5 206 6 184 19
Naramig/Amerge 22 (7) 20 (10) 24 7 24 17
Lamictal 121 25 107 25 110 24 100 35
Requip 25 64 21 (5) 24 25 19 14
Zyban 22 (7) 23 4 25 (28) 29 (37)
Respiratory 1,066 15 922 11 1,032 15 967 25
Seretide/Advair,
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent 806 27 686 17 746 22 699 37
Seretide/Advair 460 50 392 70 416 >100 363 >100
Flixotide/Flovent 211 7 178 (15) 194 (22) 200 (14)
Serevent 135 1 116 (21) 136 (19) 136 (25)
Flixonase/Flonase 122 – 125 16 150 17 137 9
Ventolin 73 (8) 58 (10) 66 (17) 68 (3)
Becotide 33 (21) 30 (20) 34 (13) 33 (19)
Anti-virals 621 9 558 11 570 12 550 17
HIV 396 13 357 12 362 9 350 18
Combivir 155 4 141 (1) 148 (1) 144 –
Trizivir 90 46 77 75 79 >100 69 >100
Epivir 80 7 71 1 72 (6) 72 1
Retrovir 13 (6) 10 (28) 13 – 14 14
Ziagen 47 16 47 26 39 (8) 40 6
Agenerase 11 (6) 11 (9) 11 (12) 11 (3)
Herpes 175 1 156 7 166 6 156 7
Valtrex 121 24 103 22 105 31 96 27
Zovirax 54 (28) 53 (14) 61 (20) 60 (14)
Zeffix 33 29 31 19 29 10 30 37
Anti-bacterials 573 (21) 434 (15) 559 (3) 644 (9)
Augmentin 293 (31) 197 (24) 313 10 388 (4)
Zinnat/Ceftin 67 (37) 50 (30) 57 (49) 69 (37)
Fortum 53 (7) 46 (4) 51 2 51 3
Amoxil 43 13 30 (3) 30 (5) 33 (24)
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 402 32 289 (23) 385 (5) 353 5
Avandia 236 >100 155 (26) 222 4 196 28
Zantac 98 (27) 81 (24) 101 (21) 102 (13)
Vaccines 278 12 297 26 261 8 244 18
Hepatitis 123 10 121 16 121 11 118 10
Infanrix 54 (12) 67 27 69 (1) 64 24
Oncology and emesis 268 35 231 13 247 11 231 26
Zofran 200 36 171 19 178 13 159 20
Hycamtin 23 60 19 (26) 27 5 25 16
Cardiovascular 172 2 169 26 169 16 145 17
Coreg 76 (3) 93 64 77 36 60 22
Arthritis (Relafen) 4 (78) 5 (83) 7 (86) 7 (86)
Other 188 (20) 193 (6) 217 (3) 226 10
Total pharmaceutical sales 4,799 7 4,222 6 4,613 9 4,361 10Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 145
Pharmaceutical sales – USA Q4 2002 Q3 2002 Q2 2002 Q1 2002
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 900 19 834 27 859 27 712 13
Depression 628 21 583 36 590 37 474 10
Seroxat/Paxil 386 10 347 27 387 39 293 (3)
Wellbutrin 242 42 236 53 203 35 181 41
Migraine 176 12 164 6 175 7 155 20
Imigran/Imitrex 163 13 153 8 159 7 141 21
Naramig/Amerge 13 (5) 11 (16) 16 12 14 20
Lamictal 67 39 61 41 64 44 55 55
Requip 14 >100 11 (10) 13 43 9 15
Zyban 11 (4) 12 (3) 11 (17) 13 (15)
Respiratory 529 28 475 19 531 24 488 46
Seretide/Advair,
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent 425 43 366 24 394 29 372 60
Seretide/Advair 251 71 210 >100 224 >100 191 >100
Flixotide/Flovent 101 25 90 (20) 95 (30) 101 (18)
Serevent 73 5 66 (27) 75 (25) 80 (26)
Flixonase/Flonase 92 1 103 19 119 24 99 16
Ventolin 3 (62) (2) – 1 (91) 6 (21)
Becotide – – – – – – – –
Anti-virals 326 12 299 16 294 19 294 28
HIV 227 8 215 14 210 8 205 21
Combivir 88 (1) 82 (2) 84 (3) 84 (1)
Trizivir 53 29 50 69 52 >100 45 >100
Epivir 45 8 41 8 39 (4) 39 11
Retrovir 6 (7) 6 (5) 5 (9) 6 20
Ziagen 27 13 28 24 22 (14) 24 8
Agenerase 8 (4) 8 (14) 8 (25) 7 (18)
Herpes 86 18 72 21 74 24 77 46
Valtrex 79 34 65 29 68 34 63 44
Zovirax 7 (48) 7 (22) 6 (28) 14 56
Zeffix 3 53 3 72 3 57 3 >100
Anti-bacterials 232 (34) 155 (34) 262 (3) 326 (17)
Augmentin 163 (41) 88 (40) 196 18 257 (7)
Zinnat/Ceftin 9 (77) 5 (79) 7 (87) 13 (77)
Fortum 10 6 9 (23) 9 3 9 (3)
Amoxil 9 >100 8 4 8 63 7 (56)
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 229 >100 148 (30) 215 (2) 192 19
Avandia 198 >100 130 (32) 193 (1) 167 21
Zantac 23 (29) 17 (15) 21 (14) 25 (1)
Vaccines 65 1 73 16 70 14 82 35
Hepatitis 55 15 53 23 48 9 55 24
Infanrix 10 (36) 19 (4) 23 40 27 72
Oncology and emesis 208 49 173 14 185 13 174 33
Zofran 154 51 125 22 130 15 116 24
Hycamtin 15 >100 12 (36) 19 4 17 24
Cardiovascular 112 (1) 115 30 110 25 93 17
Coreg 73 (4) 90 66 75 37 57 21
Arthritis (Relafen) 1 (91) 2 (92) 2 (96) 3 (93)
Other (10) >(100) 5 80 23 (15) 11 >100
Total pharmaceutical sales 2,592 14 2,279 9 2,551 15 2,375 15146 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Pharmaceutical sales – Europe Q4 2002 Q3 2002 Q2 2002 Q1 2002
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 207 (4) 183 (1) 194 (4) 186 –
Depression 101 (2) 87 (3) 99 (1) 88 (1)
Seroxat/Paxil 101 (2) 87 (3) 99 (1) 88 (1)
Wellbutrin – – – – – – – –
Migraine 41 (11) 39 (1) 39 (9) 42 9
Imigran/Imitrex 35 (10) 32 – 32 (10) 34 8
Naramig/Amerge 6 (16) 7 (3) 7 (4) 8 12
Lamictal 44 11 37 6 35 (1) 35 14
Requip 10 (3) 9 – 10 9 9 11
Zyban 7 (37) 6 (14) 5 (35) 9 (47)
Respiratory 364 4 309 – 344 4 324 7
Seretide/Advair,
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent 279 8 237 3 258 9 244 13
Seretide/Advair 168 23 146 19 153 45 141 69
Flixotide/Flovent 60 (10) 48 (16) 55 (24) 56 (20)
Serevent 51 (7) 43 (13) 50 (15) 47 (25)
Flixonase/Flonase 12 (3) 11 (6) 16 (12) 13 2
Ventolin 37 (1) 30 (1) 33 (7) 33 2
Becotide 27 (13) 25 (13) 27 (12) 26 (19)
Anti-virals 176 10 150 4 158 6 152 6
HIV 130 20 107 8 115 9 110 14
Combivir 52 14 43 – 46 (4) 45 (5)
Trizivir 32 76 24 64 25 >100 22 >100
Epivir 26 7 21 (4) 24 (4) 23 (7)
Retrovir 4 (16) 2 (71) 5 8 6 20
Ziagen 14 1 15 25 12 (8) 12 (8)
Agenerase 2 11 2 – 3 7 2 35
Herpes 35 (14) 34 (8) 37 (3) 34 (20)
Valtrex 19 (10) 18 12 20 38 16 (12)
Zovirax 16 (19) 16 (23) 17 (28) 18 (26)
Zeffix 4 16 4 47 4 21 4 58
Anti-bacterials 193 (7) 146 (2) 163 (4) 194 6
Augmentin 86 (9) 65 (4) 73 (5) 91 4
Zinnat/Ceftin 35 (12) 22 – 27 (12) 33 5
Fortum 25 (8) 21 3 24 3 26 20
Amoxil 12 (18) 10 (10) 10 (13) 13 (8)
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 60 (28) 53 (23) 62 (18) 66 (12)
Avandia 12 15 9 25 11 38 10 52
Zantac 29 (34) 25 (31) 29 (32) 33 (22)
Vaccines 127 24 137 31 111 4 93 8
Hepatitis 52 5 53 14 54 13 45 9
Infanrix 33 14 29 35 30 (28) 25 (3)
Oncology and emesis 39 3 38 8 38 6 37 5
Zofran 29 2 30 10 30 8 28 8
Hycamtin 7 9 5 2 6 (2) 6 1
Cardiovascular 39 3 35 17 39 (2) 34 15
Coreg – – – – – – – –
Arthritis (Relafen) 1 (31) 1 (60) 3 (16) 1 (44)
Other 66 7 55 (2) 62 14 61 3
Total pharmaceutical sales 1,272 1 1,107 2 1,174 1 1,148 4Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 147
Pharmaceutical sales – International Q4 2002 Q3 2002 Q2 2002 Q1 2002
£m CER % £m CER % £m CER % £m CER %
CNS 120 20 107 18 113 24 96 15
Depression 84 25 70 23 72 29 61 29
Seroxat/Paxil 79 25 65 23 66 31 57 30
Wellbutrin 5 21 5 23 6 11 4 21
Migraine 16 (2) 14 (7) 16 43 11 33
Imigran/Imitrex 13 (5) 12 (10) 15 49 9 35
Naramig/Amerge 3 17 2 16 1 14 2 21
Lamictal 10 5 9 19 11 22 10 32
Requip 1 14 1 26 1 30 1 27
Zyban 4 74 5 85 9 (35) 7 (48)
Respiratory 173 4 138 11 157 12 155 13
Seretide/Advair,
Flixotide/Flovent, Serevent 102 20 83 28 94 28 83 35
Seretide/Advair 41 67 36 86 39 93 31 >100
Flixotide/Flovent 50 (2) 40 4 44 4 43 9
Serevent 11 17 7 (3) 11 8 9 (8)
Flixonase/Flonase 18 (3) 11 9 15 7 25 (7)
Ventolin 33 (6) 30 1 32 (7) 29 (4)
Becotide 6 (42) 5 (39) 7 (17) 7 (19)
Anti-virals 119 4 109 6 118 4 104 9
HIV 39 19 35 11 37 17 35 17
Combivir 15 1 16 1 18 21 15 22
Trizivir 5 >100 3 >100 2 >100 2 >100
Epivir 9 2 9 (16) 9 (15) 10 (15)
Retrovir 3 16 2 (5) 3 5 2 (9)
Ziagen 6 86 4 42 5 31 4 47
Agenerase 1 (55) 1 4 – – 2 70
Herpes 54 (9) 50 – 55 (6) 45 (11)
Valtrex 23 28 20 12 17 17 17 23
Zovirax 31 (26) 30 (6) 38 (15) 28 (22)
Zeffix 26 28 24 11 22 5 23 29
Anti-bacterials 148 (11) 133 5 134 (1) 124 (6)
Augmentin 44 (15) 44 7 44 3 40 (4)
Zinnat/Ceftin 23 (16) 23 (8) 23 (2) 23 (3)
Fortum 18 (11) 16 4 18 1 16 (13)
Amoxil 22 1 12 (1) 12 (23) 13 (6)
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 113 (2) 88 (7) 108 (3) 95 (3)
Avandia 26 65 16 30 18 64 19 >100
Zantac 46 (22) 39 (23) 51 (17) 44 (12)
Vaccines 86 6 87 30 80 10 69 17
Hepatitis 16 12 15 1 19 14 18 (15)
Infanrix 11 (29) 19 69 16 26 12 24
Oncology and emesis 21 (4) 20 9 24 9 20 20
Zofran 17 (2) 16 10 18 7 15 22
Hycamtin 1 (42) 2 (4) 2 41 2 12
Cardiovascular 21 18 19 17 20 11 18 20
Coreg 3 30 3 18 2 24 3 39
Arthritis (Relafen) 2 (22) 2 (15) 2 (15) 3 (30)
Other 132 (12) 133 (9) 132 (7) 154 9
Total pharmaceutical sales 935 – 836 6 888 5 838 7148 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided analysed in accordance with current reporting practice.
2002 2001 2000 1999 1998
Sales by business segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,995 17,205 15,429 13,618 12,563
Consumer Healthcare 3,217 3,284 2,650 2,546 2,375
Retained businesses 21,212 20,489 18,079 16,164 14,938
Healthcare Services – – – 632 1,064
21,212 20,489 18,079 16,796 16,002
Pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area
Central nervous system 4,511 4,007 3,279 2,720 2,400
Respiratory 3,987 3,537 2,789 2,382 2,096
Anti-bacterials 2,210 2,604 2,472 2,383 2,278
Anti-virals 2,299 2,128 1,899 1,610 1,347
Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 1,429 1,480 1,232 886 908
Vaccines 1,080 948 842 776 726
Oncology and emesis 977 838 710 613 549
Cardiovascular 655 591 463 449 390
Arthritis 23 156 210 275 301
Others 824 916 1,086 1,096 1,192
Continuing business 17,995 17,205 14,982 13,190 12,187
Divested products – – 447 428 376
17,995 17,205 15,429 13,618 12,563
Pharmaceutical sales by geographic area
USA 9,797 9,037 7,705 6,276 5,635
Europe 4,701 4,561 4,268 4,288 4,059
International:
Asia Pacific 1,177 1,119 1,049 929 876
Japan 712 741 832 704 592
Latin America 606 790 682 636 662
Middle East, Africa 575 539 511 461 468
Canada 427 418 382 324 271
International 3,497 3,607 3,456 3,054 2,869
17,995 17,205 15,429 13,618 12,563
Consumer Healthcare sales
OTC medicines 1,586 1,603 1,454 1,434 1,328
Oral care 1,052 1,106 642 614 584
Nutritional healthcare 579 575 535 488 459
Continuing business 3,217 3,284 2,631 2,536 2,371
Divested products – – 19 10 4
3,217 3,284 2,650 2,546 2,375Financial recordGlaxoSmithKline 149
2001 2000 1999 1998
2002 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Statutory results £m £m £m £m £m
Sales 21,212 20,489 18,079 16,796 16,002
Profit before taxation 5,506 4,517 6,029 4,236 3,564
Earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 3,915 3,053 4,106 3,077 2,436
Dividends (2,346) (2,356) (2,097) (2,005) (1,903)
Retained profit 1,569 697 2,009 1,072 533
Return on capital employed (per cent) 70.4 52.9 78.5 71.8 74.6
Return on capital employed is calculated as statutory profit before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed over the year.
Merger, restructuring and disposal of subsidiaries
Manufacturing and other restructuring (362) (162) (171) (443) (90)
Merger costs and product divestments (599) (1,069) 895 – –
Other items (50) (421) (22) (29) (721)
(Loss)/profit before taxation (1,011) (1,652) 702 (472) (811)
(Loss)/profit attributable to shareholders (712) (1,330) 452 (347) (512)
Business performance results - retained businesses
Sales 21,212 20,489 18,079 16,164 14,938
R&D expenditure 2,732 2,555 2,510 2,285 2,072
per cent of sales 13 12 14 14 14
Trading profit 6,694 6,053 5,026 4,378 4,191
per cent of sales 32 30 28 27 28
Net interest payable (141) (88) (182) (162) (192)
Profit before taxation 6,517 6,169 5,327 4,683 4,299
Adjusted earnings (profit attributable to shareholders) 4,627 4,383 3,654 3,406 2,892
Business performance, which is the primary performance measure used by management, is presented after excluding merger items,
integration and restructuring costs and the disposal of businesses. Management believes that exclusion of these non-recurring items
provides a better comparison of business performance for the periods presented. Accordingly, this information is provided as a supplement
to that included in the ‘Consolidated statement of profit and loss’ on pages 76 and 77 prepared in accordance with UKGAAP. Statutory
results include these non-recurring items.
Share statistics
Earnings per Share (p) 66.2 50.3 67.7 50.3 39.9
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline share (p):
GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 40.0 39.0
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 38.0 37.0 36.0
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 29.66 26.69 24.02
Dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ADS ($):
GlaxoSmithKline shareholder 1.24 1.11
Glaxo Wellcome shareholder 1.10 1.14 1.19
SmithKline Beecham shareholder 0.87 0.86 0.81
Dividends are expressed in terms of a GlaxoSmithKline share/ADS. On the merger between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham on
27thDecember 2000, shareholders and ADR holders received shares in GlaxoSmithKline in the following ratios:
for 1 Glaxo Wellcome share – 1 GlaxoSmithKline share
for 1 SmithKline Beecham share – 0.4552 GlaxoSmithKline shares
for 1 Glaxo Wellcome ADS – 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS
for 1 SmithKline Beecham ADS – 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs
1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents 2 GlaxoSmithKline shares.150 GlaxoSmithKline Financial record
2001 2000 1999 1998
2002 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Net assets £m £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets 11,578 11,920 10,322 9,292 9,095
Other assets and liabilities (1,855) (1,567) (877) (401) (1,107)
Net operating assets 9,723 10,353 9,445 8,891 7,988
Net debt (2,335) (2,101) (611) (2,357) (2,717)
7,388 8,252 8,834 6,534 5,271
Capital employed
Share capital and share premium 1,730 1,713 1,586 1,549 1,542
Other reserves 4,851 5,677 6,004 3,842 2,616
Equity shareholders’ funds 6,581 7,390 7,590 5,391 4,158
Minority interests 807 862 1,244 1,143 1,113
7,388 8,252 8,834 6,534 5,271
Capital expenditure (tangible fixed assets) 1,027 1,113 1,018 1,141 1,037
Number of employees
USA 23,527 23,613 22,745 21,272 32,565
Europe 46,028 46,508 45,929 47,767 45,408
International:
Asia Pacific 19,512 20,749 21,689 21,831 21,643
Japan 2,952 2,985 3,165 3,191 3,402
Latin America 6,876 7,800 7,704 8,286 7,702
Middle East, Africa 3,750 3,959 4,502 4,754 4,547
Canada 1,854 1,856 1,783 1,940 1,554
Total International 34,944 37,349 38,843 40,002 38,848
104,499 107,470 107,517 109,041 116,821
Manufacturing 35,503 36,849 35,681 37,420 44,780
Selling 43,994 44,499 43,325 41,775 41,095
Administration 10,378 11,081 11,980 12,767 15,064
Research and development 14,624 15,041 16,531 17,079 15,882
104,499 107,470 107,517 109,041 116,821
The number of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who
are employed and managed by GlaxoSmithKline on a contract basis.GlaxoSmithKline 151
Investor information
This section discusses shareholder return – the return to
shareholders in the form of dividends and share price movements
– and provides other information for shareholders.
152 Shareholder return
153 Shareholder information
154 Share capital
156 Taxation information for shareholders152 GlaxoSmithKline
Shareholder return
Merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham Dividends
The merger was implemented by way of a scheme of arrangement GlaxoSmithKline pays dividends quarterly. At present, it is expected
and became effective on 27th December 2000. A new holding that there will be a level dividend for each of the first three quarters,
company, GlaxoSmithKline plc, acquired Glaxo Wellcome and with a higher dividend in the fourth quarter. Each quarter’s dividend
SmithKline Beecham. In accordance with the agreed merger is announced at the time of the quarterly Results Announcement.
terms, shareholders of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
The Board declared dividends for 2002 as follows:
received, in exchange for their existing shares, shares in
GlaxoSmithKline as follows: 2002 2001
Dividends per share pence pence
for each Glaxo Wellcome ordinary share – 1 GlaxoSmithKline First interim - paid 4th July 2002 9 9
ordinary share Second interim - paid 3rd October 2002 9 9
for each SmithKline Beecham ordinary share – 0.4552 Third interim - paid 3rd January 2003 9 9
GlaxoSmithKline ordinary shares. Fourth interim - payable 17th April 2003 13 12
Total 40 39
In the case of shares held as American Depositary Shares (ADSs),
holders of Glaxo Wellcome ADRs and holders of SmithKline
Beecham ADRs received: Dividends (ADSs)
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the tables below set out the dividends
for each Glaxo Wellcome ADS - 1 GlaxoSmithKline ADS
paid per ADS in US dollars in the last five years. The dividends are
for each SmithKline Beecham ADS - 1.138 GlaxoSmithKline ADSs
adjusted for UK tax credit less withholding tax, where applicable, and
GlaxoSmithKline shares commenced trading on the London Stock are translated into US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
Exchange and GlaxoSmithKline ADSs commenced trading on the
Since 6th April 1999, claims for refunds of tax credits on dividends
New York Stock Exchange on 27th December 2000.
from the UK tax authorities are of negligible benefit to US
shareholders.
Taxation
Year GSK ($) GW ($) SB ($)
General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of
2002 1.24 – –
share ownership is set out in 'Taxation information for shareholders'.
2001 1.11 – –
2000 – 1.10 0.87
Share price
1999 – 1.14 0.86
2002 2001 2000 1998 – 1.19 0.81
(£) (£) GSK (£) GW(£) SB (£)
At 1st January 17.23 18.90 – 17.50 7.90 Dividends paid to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham ADR
High during the year 17.80 20.32 – 21.10 9.55 holders are expressed as dividends per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
Low during the year 10.57 16.26 – 14.40 6.71
At 26th December – – – 18.42 8.33 Dividend calendar
At 31st December 11.92 17.23 18.90 – –
Fourth quarter 2002
(Decrease)/increase (31)% (9)% 5% 5%
Ex-dividend date 19th February 2003
Record date 21st February 2003
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices derived Payable 17th April 2003
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
First quarter 2003
The company’s share price declined by 31 per cent in 2002 from
Ex-dividend date 7th May 2003
a price of £17.23 at 1st January 2002 to £11.92 at 31st
Record date 9th May 2003
December 2002. This compares with a decrease in the FTSE 100
Payable 3rd July 2003
index of 24 per cent during the year. In the two years since the
merger, the share price has declined by 37 per cent from £18.90
Second quarter 2003
at 1st January 2001 which is in line with a similar decrease in the
Ex-dividend date 30th July 2003
FTSE 100 index over the same period.
Record date 1st August 2003
Payable 2nd October 2003
Market capitalisation
The market capitalisation of GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December
Third quarter 2003
2002 was £72 billion. At that date GlaxoSmithKline was the third
largest company by market capitalisation on the FTSE index. Ex-dividend date 29th October 2003
Record date 31st October 2003
Payable 6th January 2004
SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured Loan Stock
1990/2010
The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may
require SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at
par, i.e. £1 for every £1 of loan stock held, on the first business
day of March, June, September and December. Holders wishing
to redeem all or part of their loan stock should complete the
notice on the back of their loan stock certificate and return it to
the registrar, to arrive at least 30 days before the relevant
redemption date.GlaxoSmithKline 153
Shareholder information
Ordinary shares Annual General Meeting 2003
The company's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 19th May 2003
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
Registrar
London SW1P 3EE
The company's share register is administered by Lloyds TSB
Registrars, who also provide the following services: The Annual General Meeting is the company's principal forum for
communication with private shareholders. In addition to the formal
• GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan
resolutions to be put to the meeting, there will be a presentation
The plan enables shareholders to reinvest quarterly dividends
by the Chief Executive Officer on the performance of the business
and/or make monthly investments in the company's ordinary
and its future development. There will be opportunity for questions
shares using a special dealing arrangement.
to the Board, and the Chairmen of the Board's committees will
• GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account take questions on matters relating to those committees.
The GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account (ISA) is a
Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service
tax-efficient way to invest in the company's ordinary shares.
should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a
• GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee corporate representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding
The corporate sponsored nominee provides a facility for in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
shareholders to hold shares without the need for share
ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy
certificates. Shareholders' details will not be held on the main
from The Bank of New York which will enable them to attend the
share register, and so will remain confidential.
meeting and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders
• Shareview service may instruct The Bank of New York as to how the shares
The shareview portfolio service provides shareholders with represented by their ADRs should be voted by completing and
information on their investment in the company. Shareholders returning the voting card provided by The Bank of New York in
may register for this service at www.shareview.co.uk. accordance with the instructions given.
Share dealing facility Financial reporting
NatWest Stockbrokers Limited offers a share-dealing service on
Financial reporting calendar 2003
behalf of the company to shareholders wishing to buy or sell the
company's shares. Announcement of 1st Quarter Results 30th April 2003
Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results 23rd July 2003
Share price information
Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results 22nd October 2003
Share price information is available on the company's website at
www.gsk.com. Information is also available on Ceefax, Teletext, Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results 12th February 2004
and from FT Cityline by calling 0906 003 5694 or 0906 843 5694 Publication of Annual Report/Review March 2004
(calls charged at 60p a minute plus VAT at all times).
Results Announcements
American Depositary Shares The Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock
Exchange (LSE), and made available on the LSE news service, and
The company's shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange
at the same time, or shortly afterwards, are issued to the media,
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and these are
are made available on the website and are filed in the USA with
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs), each one of
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock
which represents two ordinary shares.
Exchange.
ADR programme administrator
Financial reports
The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York,
The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not
who also provide the following service:
needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review. These are
• Global BuyDIRECT available from the date of publication on the GlaxoSmithKline
Global BuyDIRECT is a direct ADS purchase/sale and dividend website.
reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders on the date of
publication. Shareholders may elect to receive also the Report by
Publications
writing to the company’s registrars. Alternatively shareholders may
This year GlaxoSmithKline has again produced a separate report elect to receive notification by email of the publication of financial
covering the Group’s contribution to society. The 2002 Corporate reports by registering on www.shareview.co.uk.
and Social Responsibility Report covers the issues that are of
Copies of previous financial reports are available on the company's
primary interest to stakeholders, including the contribution to
website. Printed copies can be obtained from the registrar in the
society, business ethics and integrity, access to medicines, R&D,
UK and from the Customer Response Center in the USA.
community investment, the environment and health and safety.
The report is available from the Secretariat at the company’s head
office and the website at www.gsk.com.154 GlaxoSmithKline
Share capital
Nature of trading market Glaxo Wellcome Pence per share
The Ordinary Shares of the company were listed on the London Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
Stock Exchange on 27th December 2000. The shares were also 2000 2110 1440
listed on the New York Stock Exchange (inthe form of American 1999 2288 1507
Depositary Shares ‘ADSs’) from the same date. 1998 2073 1465
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high
US dollars per ADS
and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares
Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
on the London Stock Exchange, as derived from its Daily Official
List, and the high and low last reported sales prices in US dollars 2000 633⁄4 46
for the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange, as derived from 1999 763⁄16 481⁄16
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape. 1998 691⁄2 481⁄8
Information relating to the share and ADS prices for Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham prior to the date of the SmithKline Beecham Pence per share
merger is also given below. Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
2000 955 671
GlaxoSmithKline Pence per share
1999 929 688
Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low 1998 844 571
Quarter ended 31st March 2003* 1242 1038
February 2003 1177 1088
US dollars per ADS
January 2003 1242 1038
December 2002 1203 1120 Fiscal periods to 26th December 2000 High Low
November 2002 1265 1194 2000 7115⁄16 521⁄2
October 2002 1390 1212 1999 763⁄8 561⁄16
September 2002 1283 1139 1998 717⁄8 481⁄16
Quarter ended 31st December 2002 1390 1120
Quarter ended 30th September 2002 1400 1057
Quarter ended 30th June 2002 1694 1321
Quarter ended 31st March 2002 1780 1623
Quarter ended 31st December 2001 1955 1685
Quarter ended 30th September 2001 2032 1626
Quarter ended 30th June 2001 2012 1740
Quarter ended 31st March 2001 1965 1690
27th to 31st December 2000 1920 1890
US dollars per ADS
Fiscal periods from 27th December 2000 High Low
Quarter ended 31st March 2003* 39.93 34.44
February 2003 38.52 34.76
January 2003 39.93 34.44
December 2002 37.80 35.92
November 2002 39.97 37.65
October 2002 43.09 37.68
September 2002 39.22 35.18
Quarter ended 31st December 2002 43.09 35.92
Quarter ended 30th September 2002 42.38 32.86
Quarter ended 30th June 2002 49.18 38.54
Quarter ended 31st March 2002 50.87 46.39
Quarter ended 31st December 2001 57.09 48.68
Quarter ended 30th September 2001 58.00 48.40
Quarter ended 30th June 2001 57.10 49.80
Quarter ended 31st March 2001 56.95 47.15
27th to 31st December 2000 5613/16 553/8
*to 3rd March 2003Share capitalGlaxoSmithKline 155
Analysis of shareholdings
Number of % of total % of total Number of
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2002: accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 175,952 69.8 1.1 64,763,266
1,001 to 5,000 57,887 23.0 2.1 125,349,601
5,001 to 100,000 16,231 6.5 4.1 250,388,993
100,001 to 1,000,000 1,370 0.5 7.2 433,591,515
Over 1,000,000 503 0.2 85.5 5,150,172,970
Totals 251,943 100.0 100.0 6,024,266,345
Held by
Nominee companies 66,402 26.4 84.9 5,113,657,689
Investment and trust companies 374 0.1 0.2 10,383,896
Insurance companies 39 – 0.9 52,529,770
Individuals and other corporate bodies 185,127 73.5 5.0 301,540,855
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 – 9.0 546,154,135
Totals 251,943 100.0 100.0 6,024,266,345
The Bank of New York’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each ADS
represents two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value.
At 3rd March 2003, the number of holders of record of shares in the USA was 1,178 with holdings of 1,845,570 shares, and
thenumberof registered holders of the ADRs was 49,956 with holdings of 272,882,770 ADRs. Certain of these shares and ADRs were
held by brokers or other nominees, as a result the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of
the number of beneficial holders orofthe residence of beneficial holders.
Control of company
As far as is known to the company, it is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
Thecompany does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in control of the company.
Substantial shareholdings
At 3rd March 2003, the company had received notification of the following interest of three per cent or more in its shares:
• BNY(Nominees) Limited holds 545,773,383 shares representing 9.07 per cent. These shares are held on behalf of holders of American
Depositary Receipts, which evidence American Depositary Shares
• Legal &General Investment Management Limited holds 186,857,268 shares representing 3.1 per cent
• Barclays plc holds 180,980,055 shares representing 3.0 per cent.
As far as is known to the company, no other person was the owner of three per cent or more of the shares of the company.
Directors and Officers
The interests of the Directors and Officers of the company (as defined in theCompanies Act 1985) in share options of the company are
given in the ‘Remuneration report’ (pages 39 to 50).
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting securityholders
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends
orother payments to holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. There are no limitations relating only to
non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right tobe a holder of,
and tovote in respect of, the company’s shares.156 GlaxoSmithKline
Taxation information for shareholders
Information for shareholders US shareholders
A summary of the principal tax consequences for holders of The following is a summary of certain United Kingdom taxation
shares and ADRs who are citizens or residents of the United and United States federal income tax considerations that may be
Kingdom or the United States is set out below. It is not a relevant to a USholder of shares or ADRs. This summary only
complete analysis of all the possible tax consequences of applies to a shareholder that holds shares or ADRs as capital
purchase or ownership of these securities. assets, is a citizen or resident of the United States or a domestic
corporation or that is otherwise subject to United States federal
Shareholders who are subject to special rules or who are in any
income taxation on a net income basis in respect of the shares or
doubt about their taxation position should consult their own
ADRs, and is not resident in the United Kingdom for UKtax
professional advisors.
purposes and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade,
The new UK/US Income Tax Convention was signed on profession or vocation that is carried on in the United Kingdom
24th July 2001. However no date has yet been set for ratification. through a branch or agency.
The statements regarding the United Kingdom and the United
States tax laws and practices set out below are based on those Taxation of dividends
laws and practices in force on the date of this report. The gross amount of dividends received (including amounts in
respect of associated tax credit and UK withholding tax) is treated
US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of the
as foreign source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not
underlying shares for the purposes of the current United
eligible for the dividend received deduction allowed to US
States/United Kingdom double taxation conventions relating to
corporations. Dividends on ADRs are payable in US Dollars;
income and gains (Income Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes
dividends on shares are payable in pounds Sterling. Dividends
(Estate and Gift Tax Convention) and for the purposes of the US
paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code).
Dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on
The following analysis deals with dividends paid after the day the dividends are received by the holder. If holders qualify
6th April 1999. Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) was abolished for benefits under the current income tax convention between
for dividends paid on or after that date. the United States and the United Kingdom, they may be eligible,
subject to generally applicable limitations, to receive a special US
UK shareholders foreign tax credit equal to one-ninth of the amount of cash
dividends that they receive on the shares, so long as they make
Taxation of dividends
an election to include in their income, as an additional notional
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one
dividend, an amount equal to the tax credit. Each holder's own
ninth. As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax
tax position will determine whether effective use can be made of
on dividend income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK
special US foreign tax credits against the US tax liability.
resident individual shareholders. Tax credits are, however, no
longer repayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one
the associated tax credit. ninth and ACT was abolished. Consequently, claims for refunds
of tax credits on dividends paid on or after this date are now of
Taxation of capital gains negligible benefit to US shareholders.
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the
disposal of shares or ADRs. They may also be entitled to Taxation of capital gains
indexation relief and taper relief on such sales. Indexation relief is Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
calculated on the market value of shares at 31st March 1982 and but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale
on the cost of any subsequent purchases from the date of such or other disposal of shares or ADRs.
purchase. Indexation relief for individual shareholders ceased on
5th April 1998. Taper relief is available to individual shareholders Estate and gift taxes
who hold or are deemed to hold shares for at least three years Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is
before they are sold. not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
Inheritance tax Stamp duty
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT will, subject to
transfer of shares or ADRs. This tax may be charged on the certain exemptions, be payable on any issue or transfer of shares
amount by which the value of the shareholder's estate is reduced to the ADR custodian or depository at a rate of 1.5 per cent of
as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less their price (if issued), the amount of any consideration provided
than full market value. Exceptionally, such a gift or other disposal (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for no
is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax. consideration).
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK
tax paid in the United States to be credited against tax payable in
stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided
the United Kingdom.
that the instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all
times outside the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR
Stamp duty
would be payable at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration
UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, stamp duty reserve tax
for the transfer. Any sale of the underlying shares would result in
(SDRT) will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the
liability to UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate
purchase of shares at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the purchase price.
of 0.5 per cent. There is a minimum charge of £5 where a stamp
There is a minimum charge of £5 where a stamp duty liability
duty liability arises.
arises.GlaxoSmithKline 157
Cross reference to Form 20-F
This table has been provided as a cross reference from the information included in this Annual Report to the requirements of Form 20-F.
Item Page Item Page
1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisors n/a 8 Financial information
A Consolidated statements and other financial information
2 Offer statistics and expected timetable n/a
Financial statements See Item 18
3 Key information
Legal proceedings 103-107
A Selected financial data 71
B Significant changes n/a
D Risk factors 64-65
9 The offer and listing
4 Information on the company
A Share price history 154
A History and development of the company 06
C Markets 154
B Business overview
10Additional information
Products 07-09
B Memorandum and Articles of Association Footnote (i)
Competition 10-11
C Material contracts n/a
Regulation 11-12
D Exchange controls 155
Marketing and distribution 13
E Taxation 156
Manufacture and supply 13-14
H Documents on display 38
Research and development 14-22
Intellectual property 23 11Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk
Information technology 24 Treasury policies 62-63
Environment, health and safety 26 Note 32 - Financial instruments and related disclosures 110-113
Access to medicines in the developing world 27 12Description of securities other than equity securities n/a
Global community partnerships 27-29
13Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies n/a
C Organisational structure 139-141
D Property, plant and equipment 25 14Material modifications to the rights of security holders
Environmental responsibility 26 and use of proceeds n/a
Note 6 – Segment information 86-88 15Controls and procedures 35-38
Note 17 – Tangible fixed assets 96
16Reserved
5 Operating and financial review and prospects
17Financial statements n/a
A Operating results
18Financial statements
2002 and 2001 53-65
Directors’ statements of responsibility 74
2001 and 2000 66-70
Independent auditors’ report 75
Under US accounting principles 72
Consolidated statement of profit and loss 76-77
B Liquidity and capital resources 60-65
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 76-77
C Research and development, patents and licenses, etc. 14-22,52
Consolidated statement of cash flow 78-79
D Trend information 52
Consolidated balance sheet 80
6 Directors, senior management and employees
Reconciliation of movements in equityshareholders’ funds 80
A Directors and senior management 32-33
Company balance sheet 81
B Compensation
Notesto the financial statements 82-141
Remuneration report 39-50
19Exhibits
C Board practices
Corporate governance 34-38
D Employees Footnote (i)
GlaxoSmithKline people 24-25 Information responsive to this item is incorporated by reference
Note 33 – Employee costs 114-118 to ‘Memorandum and Articles of Association of GlaxoSmithKline’
Financial record 142-150 at pages 35–36 of the Group’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for
E Share ownership the year ended 31st December 2000.
GlaxoSmithKline people 24-25
Note 34 – Employee share schemes 118-121
Share options 48
Incentive plans 49
Directors’ interests 47,50
7 Major shareholders and related party transactions
A Major shareholders 155
B Related party transactions 38,121158 GlaxoSmithKline
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) An advance payment of UK tax that was made when dividends are paid. No direct US
equivalent.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two ordinary
shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Ordinary Shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Creditors Accounts payable.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Debtors Accounts receivable.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Dividend cover Profit attributable to shareholders/net income divided by dividends payable to shareholders.
Earnings per share Basic income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share based employee incentive plans.
Equity shareholders’ funds The aggregation of shares and reserves owned by shareholders. The US equivalent is
shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Free cash flow Cash resources available for payment of dividends to shareholders and for acquisitions.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds net debt and minority interests.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
bymaking off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as brands, licences, patents, know-how and
marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Interest cover The number of times profit before interest exceeds net interest payable.
Interest payable Interest expense.
Interest receivable Interest income.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Profit Income.
Profit and loss account reserve Retained earnings.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Statement of total recognised gains and losses Statement of comprehensive income.
Stocks Inventories.
Subsidiary undertaking An affiliate in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Tangible fixed assets Property, plant and equipment.
Turnover Revenue.GlaxoSmithKline 159
Index
page page page
A Corporate Executive Team 25,33,34,36,40,42, Forward-looking statements 2,64,65
Access to healthcare 27 44,46,50,121
Accountability, audit and internal control 35 Corporate governance 4,34-38,74 G
Accounting policies 59,83-85 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 34 Gearing 52
Accounting standards 65,72,82-85,124 Critical accounting policies 59 Global community partnerships 4,27-29
Acquisitions and disposals 78,79,108,124 Cross reference to Form 20-F 157 Global Supply Network 14
ADR programme administrator 153, Glossary of terms 158
inside back cover D Going concern basis 37,74
American Depositary Shares 5,152,153,155 Derivative financial instruments 62,63,85,111-113, Goodwill 60,70-72,78,80,82-84,88,90,95,96,102,
Animals and research 22 123,124,126-129 108,109,122,125,126,128-133
Annual General Meeting 34,35,40,153 Dermatologicals 9 Governmental investigations 65,103,106,107
Antitrust 37,106 Description of business 6-29,82 Group companies 139-141
Dialogue with shareholders 34
Anti-bacterials 7,8,10,54-56,66-69,82,144-148
Direct-to-consumer advertising 13 H
Anti-virals 7,8,10,15,54-56,66-69,82,144-148
Directors and senior management 32-33,45,48, Healthcare Services 58,88,148
Associates 5,58-61,70,79,83,84,91,93,134
50,119,120 Hedging 63,83,85,110,111,113,123
Audit Committee 34-38,74
Director’s History and development of the company 6
Auditors, independent 4,34-38,75
interests 47,49,50 HIV and AIDS 3,4,7,8,10,15,17-19,21,22,27-29,
B interests in contracts 50 54-56,66-69,144-147
Balance sheet 71,80-85,99,101,110,118,122, remuneration 39-50
I
123,125,129 report 2-72
Impairment of assets 59,72,78,84,95-98,122,124,
Block Drug 58,69,70,88,89,93,95,98,108 responsibility 74
126,128-130,132
109,122 share options 41,42,48,155
Independent Auditors 4,34-38,75
Board and Executive 34 share ownership guidelines 42
Information technology 24,37,65
Board committees 32,34 terms and conditions 43-45
In-licensing 14,15,18,21,22,57
Business and the Community 26 Diversity 25
Intangible assets59-61,71,72,78-80,84,90,95,100,
Business performance 2-4,41,42,51,52,57-59,64, Divested businesses 88
122,125-133,137
66,69-70,82,85,92,93,142,149 Divested products 66,67,69,148
Intellectual property 4,10,11,22,23,37,65,89,103
Business segments 6,86-88,132,134,135, Dividends 2,45-49,60-62,71,72,76,78-82,86,93,
Interest cover 52
139-141,148 94,97,101,102,124-129,134,149,152,153,155
Interest rate risk management 63,110
C E Internal control 34,35
Capital employed 80,149,150 Earnings per share 2,42,52,58,59,64,66,70-72,76, Investments 57,60-63,69-72,76,78-80,84,85,87,
Capital expenditure 61,78,79,124,150 91,93,119,133,142,149 89,96-99,102,110-112,115,121,123-130,137
Cardiovascular 7-9,15 Employees Investor information 151-156
Cash flow 51,59-63,78-85,95,96,123,124 costs 90,114-118
J
128-132 diversity 25
Joint ventures and
Cautionary statement 2 involvement 29
associates 5,58-61,70,79,83,84,86,87,90,91,93
Centralnervoussystem(CNS) 7,8,10,54-56, numbers 114,150
96,134
66-68,144-148 performance and reward 24
Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDD) share schemes 118-121 L
20,21 development 25 Leases 78,79,84,90,96,99,100,113
Chairman and Chief Executive Employee Share Ownership Trusts (ESOTs) 60,61, Legal proceedings 23,37,64,65,103-107
Officer’s statement 3,4 63,72,83,84,93,96,110,118-121,123,129 Liquid investments 60,79,80,87,99,110-112,123,
Charitable donations 27-29 Environment, health and safety 26,37,83,98,107, 124,126,128
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) 17-19 153 Loans and overdrafts 80,90,99,110,111
Combined Code 37,40,74 Equity risk management 63 Lymphatic Filariasis 4,28,29
Commitments 22,25,60,61,84,100,125 Exchange controls 155
Community investment 26-29 Exchange rates 2,5,51,55,56,62,64-66,71,85,110, M
Competition 10,11,13,54-57,64,68,69 124,152 Malaria 7,8,10,15,17,18,21,27-29
Consumer Healthcare External suppliers 14 Manufacture and supply 6,13,14
business sector/segment 6,86-88,132,134, Manufacturing and other restructuring 82,83,
F
135,148 88-93,98,114,122,123,130,133,149
Fair values 63,72,84,108-113,116,117,123,124,
competition 11,57,69 Market capitalisation 40,64,152
128-133,137-138
manufacturing and supply 13 Marketing and distribution 13
Finanial Results Committee 34
marketing and distribution 14 Maturity and counterparty risk 63
Financial assets and liabilities 63,110,111
products 9 Memorandum and Articles of Association 155
Financial instruments 62,63,85,100,110-113
sales 52,57,69,86,134,135,142,148 Merger accounting adjustments 85
Financial period 82,150
research and development 22 Metabolic and gastro-intestinal 7,8,10,15,20,21,
Financial position 60,137
regulation 12 53-56,67,68,82,144-148
Financial record
trade marks 23
5 year record 148-150 N
Constant exchange rate (CER) 2,9,51,55-59,
quarterly trend 142-147 Net debt 52,58,60-64,78,79,87,99,100,111,150
64,67,142-148
Financial reporting calendar 153 Net interest payable 52,58,63,70,76,86,87,90,
Contact details inside back cover
Financial Reporting Standards (FRS) 2,52,58-60,63, 142,149
Contaminated land 65
70,71,76,80,82,85,92,101,116-118,124,129 New products 4,19-21,53,62,64-66,69
Contingent liabilities 60,61,98,125
Financial statements 73-141 Nominations Committee 34,40
Control of company 155
Financial summary 2 Non-Executive Directors 32,34,40,45-47
Corporate Administration &
Financial trends and ratios 52 Noon buying rate 71
Transactions Committee 34
Fixed asset investments 96,97,123 Nutritional healthcare 6,9,11,13,14,22,57,69,
Foreign exchange risk management 63,110 86,148160 GlaxoSmithKline Index
page page page
O S V
Oncology and emesis 7-9,16,21,55,56,67-69,82, Sales Vaccines 6-8,10,11,14,17,21,22,27,54-56,67-69
144-148 Consumer Healthcare 52,57,69,86,134,135, 82,86,105,144-148
Operating and financial review 142,148
and prospects 51-72 Pharmaceuticals 8,10,13,37,52-56,64-66,68, W
Oral care 6,9,13,14,22,57,69,86,148 69,86,142-148 World economy 53
Other operating income/(expense) 57,58,69,70, SB Clinical laboratories 107,108 World market 53
76,89,126,142 Segment information 6,86-88,132,134,135,
Outlook 53,64 139-141,148
Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines 6,9,11,13,57,69 Selected financial data 71
82,86,148 Senior management – compensation
and interests 50
P
Share buy-back 35,58,59,62,82,101,102
Patents3,4,10-13,23,54,64,65,84,95,103-107,130
Share capital 35,50,79-81,101,125,128,150,154
Payment policies 62
Share premium 80,81,85,101,150
Pension and other post-retirement
Share price 46,48,49,53,152-154
benefits 43-45,50,59,60,72,78,84,92,97,98,
Share purchases 62,63
114-118,123,126,128-133,136,137
Share statistics 149
Pharmaceuticals
Shareholder information 153
approvals and submissions 11,12,19
Shareholder return 42,119,120,152
business sector 6,86-88,132,134,135,148
Shareholders’ funds 60,80,82
competition 10
Shareholdings – analysis 155
manufacturing and supply 13,14
Statement of total
marketing and distribution 13
recognised gains and losses 76,77
products 7-14,19,53,54,58,64
sales 8,10,13,37,52-56,64-69,86, T
142-148 Taxation 58-61,70,76,78,81,83,85-89,91,92,97,
research and development 10,14-22,25,37,52, 98,124,126,129,130,133,134,142
57,58,62,69,76,82,83,114,126,130,136, Taxation information for shareholders 156
142,150 Tax rate 52,58,65,70,85,91,130
regulation 11-12 Trade marks 5,23
patents and trade marks 5,23 Treasury operations 37,62,85
Pipeline 14-17 Treasury policies 62,63
Presentation of financial statements 82 Tuberculosis 27
Price controls 12,64
Profit and loss account 2,52,57,59,69,71,76-77, U
80-85,92,102,113,117,118,122,123,142,149 UK segment 88
Property, plant and equipment 25,125 US GAAP – reconciliation to US accounting
Provisions for liabilities and charges 60,61,80,90 principles 122-138
consolidated balance sheet 125
R
consolidated income statement 126,127
Reconciliation of equity of movements
comprehensive income and
in equity shareholders’ funds 80,82
changes in shareholders’ equity 126,127
Registrar 153
consolidated statement of cash flows 124,128
Regulation 11,12
earnings per share/ADS 133
Remuneration Committee 34,40
material differences between
Remuneration report 39-50
UK and US GAAP 122-124
Report of the Directors 2-72
post-retirement benefits 123,136-138
Research collaborations 21,110
purchase accounting 130,131
Research and development
results under USaccounting principles 72
accounting policy 83
segment information 134,135
animals and research 22
selected financial data 71
Consumer Healthcare 22
taxation 133
diseases of the developing world 21,27
expenditure 52,57,58,69,76,126,142
Pharmaceuticals 14-22
pipeline 14-17
Respiratory 7-10,15,17,20-22,53-57,66,67,82,
144-148
Return on capital employed 149
Revenue – accounting policy 83
Risk factors 64,65
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) 36Contact details
INTERNET
Information for investors and about the company
is available on GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate website
at www.gsk.com
HEAD OFFICE AND REGISTERED OFFICE
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford
Middlesex TW8 9GS
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
UNITED KINGDOM UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Investor relations Investor relations
980 Great West Road One Franklin Plaza
Brentford PO Box 7929
Middlesex TW8 9GS Philadelphia
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5557 / 5558 PA 19101
Fax: +44 (0)20 8047 7807 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
Tel: +1 215 751 7003 outside the USA
Registrar Fax:+1 215 751 3233
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway
ADR programme administrator
Worthing
The Bank of New York
West Sussex BN99 6DA
Shareholder Relations
www.shareview.co.uk
PO Box 11258
Church Street Station
General enquiries, Annual Report orderline and
New York NY 10286-1258
Corporate Nominee service
www.adrbny.com
Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK
Tel: +1 610 312 5315 outside the USA
Shareholder Investment Plans
Customer response center
Dividend re-investment enquiries
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
Tel: 0870 241 3018 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)1903 604 516 outside the UK
Monthly Savings Plan enquiries
Tel: 0870 606 0268 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)131 527 3746 outside the UK
ISA enquiries
Tel: 0870 242 4244 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)1903 604 594 outside the UK
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House
Oxford Road
Aylesbury
Bucks HP21 8SZ
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 144
Corporate share dealing facility
NatWest Stockbrokers
Corporate & Employee Service
55 Mansell Street
London E1 8AN
Tel: 0870 600 3080 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7895 5923 outside the UK
email: contactces@natwest.com quoting ‘GSK Shareholders Service’
Printed by St. Ives Westerham Press in the UK. The paper used in the production of this document is made from pulp harvested
from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues and forest thinnings. It is elemental chlorine-free.