Annual Report
2017
Image HIV virusGSK Annual Report 2017
GSK is a
science-led
global
healthcare
company
In the Strategic report
Our new CEO discusses Measuring performance
2017 performance and our and managing risk
new long-term priorities
See pages 05–07 See pages 18–21
How we create Innovation and Performance
long-term value in each of our three
businesses
See pages 08–09 See pages 22–41
Industry trends How our three businesses
together contribute to our
Trust priority
See pages 10–11 See pages 42–51
Our new long-term priorities: Financial review
Innovation, Performance
and Trust
See pages 12–17 See pages 52–78
Cover image Cautionary statement
30 years after developing the first HIV See the inside back cover of this document
medicine, our research into treatment and for the cautionary statement regarding
prevention of HIV continues. We remain forward-looking statements.
at the forefront of helping people living
with HIV, driving innovation and working
with communities all over the world.0011
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Our financial performance in 2017a
£30.2bn +8% £6.7bn +51%
AER AER
+3% +44%
Group turnover CER New product salesb CER
£4.1bn +57% £8.6bn +12%
AER AER
+39% +5%
Total operating profit CER Adjusted operating profit CER
31.4p +67% 111.8p +11%
AER AER
+36% +4%
Total earnings per share CER Adjusted earnings per share CER
£6.9bn £3.4bn £3.9bn 80p
Net cash flow from Free cash flow Dividends declared 2017 dividend
operating activities for 2017 per share
Strategic report Remuneration report Investor information
At a glance 02 Chairman’s annual statement 114 Quarterly trend 244
Chairman’s statement 04 Annual report on remuneration 116 Five year record 248
CEO’s statement 05 2017 Remuneration policy summary 142 Product development pipeline 251
How we create long-term value 08 Product, competition and
Financial statements
Industry trends 10 intellectual property 254
Our long-term priorities 12 Directors’ statement of Principal risks and uncertainties 257
How we measure success 18 responsibilities 148 Share capital and control 267
How we manage risk 20 Independent Auditor’s report 149 Dividends 269
Pharmaceuticals 22 Financial statements 158 Financial calendar 269
Vaccines 30 Notes to the financial statements 162 Annual General Meeting 2018 270
Consumer Healthcare 36 Financial statements of Tax information for shareholders 270
Trust 42 GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared Shareholder services and contacts 272
Group financial review 52 under UK GAAP 233 US law and regulation 274
Group companies 276
Governance
Glossary of terms 287
Chairman’s Governance statement 80
Our Board 82
Footnotes
Our Corporate Executive Team 86
a AER growth rates represent growth at actual exchange rates. We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures
Leadership and effectiveness 88 to report the performance of our business, as described on page 58, including Adjusted results, free cash flow
Nominations Committee report 94 and CER growth rates. These measures are used by management for planning and reporting purposes and may
Accountability 96 not be directly comparable with similarly described measures used by other companies. Adjusted results exclude a
Audit & Risk Committee report 96 number of items and are presented as management believes that Adjusted results allow the key trends and factors
driving that performance to be more easily and clearly identified by shareholders. Non-IFRS measures may be
Relations with stakeholders 107
considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
Science Committee report 109 A reconciliation of Total results to Adjusted results is set out on page 67.
Corporate Responsibility b As defined in 2015, new products are as follows: Pharmaceuticals: Relvar/Breo Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta, Anoro
Committee report 110 Ellipta, Arnuity Ellipta, Eperzan/Tanzeum, Nucala, Tivicay, Triumeq. Vaccines: Menveo, Bexsero, Shingrix.02
GSK Annual Report 2017
GSK at a glance
Our purpose Three global businesses
To help people do more, feel better
and live longer.
Our goal
To be one of the world’s most innovative,
best performing and trusted healthcare
companies.
Our strategy
Immune system T-cells attacking a cancer cell
Bring differentiated, high-quality and needed
healthcare products to as many people as
possible, with our three global businesses,
scientific and technical know-how and
talented people.
Our values and expectations
Our values and expectations are at the heart
of everything we do and form an important
part of our culture.
Our values Our expectations
Patient focus Courage Herpes zoster virus of shingles
Transparency Accountability
Respect Development
Integrity Teamwork
Novamin, a key technology in Sensodyne Repair and Protect03
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Three global businesses
Pharmaceuticals
Leading positions
% of Group turnover
in Respiratory
and HIV
57%
Focused on our new
long-term priorities
Read more page 22
Vaccines Innovation
See pages 12–13
Broadest portfolio
% of Group turnover
with leading position
in meningitis and
17% Performance
opportunity in shingles See pages 14–15
Read more page 30 Trust
See pages 16–17
Consumer Healthcare
Category leadership
% of Group turnover
in Respiratory, Pain
relief and Oral health
26%
Read more page 3604
GSK Annual Report 2017
Chairman’s statement
“The Board believes the renewed focus on
innovation will enable GSK to capitalise on the
opportunities in our industry to drive long-term
value for investors.”
Philip Hampton
Chairman
I am pleased to report another year of Cash generation remains a key focus for Financial reporting
good performance with sales and earnings the Board and we were pleased to see The Board is mindful of the need to
growth, some important new product increased free cash flow for the year. We provide clear financial reports. In 2017 we
approvals and continued cash returns approved a dividend of 80p per share for reviewed aspects of our financial reporting
to shareholders in line with expectations. 2017 and expect the same for 2018. framework and made changes to ensure we
remain in line with both the latest regulatory
Following Emma Walmsley’s appointment I noted in my first letter to shareholders
requirements and best practice in the
as CEO, from April 2017, the Board two years ago that cash dividends were
industry. Commercial structures and
conducted a review of the company’s in excess of free cash flow generation
reporting requirements sometimes lead to
strategy with management in the context and that is still the case. The Board has
more complexity in reporting than we would
of the operating environment and industry established a policy of achieving, over
like but we make great efforts to simplify
dynamics in global healthcare. In July, time, cash dividend cover in the range
and clarify where possible.
Emma presented the new strategy to 1.25x – 1.5x, since investment in growth
investors setting out long-term priorities opportunities should be funded at least Board changes during the year
under three main headings – Innovation, in part by cash retentions in the business. We continue to bring in new skills and
Performance and Trust. Our top priority capabilities to the Board. During the year,
Culture
is to improve performance in the we welcomed Dr Laurie Glimcher as an
Central to ensuring long-term delivery
pharmaceuticals business and to seek Independent Non-Executive Director and
against the strategy is developing a culture
more growth from pharmaceuticals R&D. Scientific and Medical Expert. At this year’s
which rewards high performance but
The Board believes the renewed focus AGM, Professor Sir Roy Anderson, who
also seeks to build on the values of the
on innovation will enable GSK to capitalise joined the Board in 2007, will step-down.
company. The Board was pleased to see
on the opportunities in our industry to I thank Roy for his excellent contribution,
employees support this, with a marked
drive long-term value for investors. both in his special areas of scientific
increase in employee engagement
Early progress against the strategy has scores. In the past, there have been some knowledge, but also more broadly.
been encouraging and the Board is closely instances where our commercial practices Dr Patrick Vallance will also step down
engaged with management on its delivery. have been disappointing, leading to from the Board at the end of March and
leave GSK to become the Chief Scientific
regulatory intervention. The Board has
Capital allocation Adviser to the UK Government. Patrick has
focused on improving both the framework
The company now has a new capital been a fine leader and Board colleague.
and the culture for our control environment.
allocation framework to help shape our Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui
strategic priorities. Improving our pipeline Executive team both stepped down after long careers
of new pharmaceutical products is our main Following the announcement of Emma as with the company. I thanked them both
priority and the company has the potential our new CEO, the Board was involved with in my last letter.
for a marked improvement in performance. other top executive appointments. Dr Hal
The new Science Committee made good
We will also invest behind key products in Barron, our new Chief Scientific Officer
progress last year. This is crucial as we
our vaccines business which we expect and President, R&D, has joined the Board.
enter an important phase for the pipeline in
to drive growth in the coming years. In We have a new President, Global
our pharmaceutical and vaccines activities
addition, we may invest further in our Pharmaceuticals, Luke Miels; and a new
over the next 2 to 3 years. Dr Barron will be
Consumer joint venture if our partner Chief Digital and Technology Officer,
working closely with the Committee.
Novartis decides to exercise their option Karenann Terrell. The Board has taken
to sell their interests to us. Dividends a keen interest in the balance between I would like to thank all of GSK’s employees
represent an allocation of capital and the external recruits, and the development and partners for their hard work throughout
Board is mindful of the value that many of internal succession planning. 2017 and our shareholders and customers
shareholders attach to dividends. Under for their continued support and look
our framework, any material acquisitions forward to a successful 2018.
have a lower priority and would have to
meet our strict returns criteria.
Philip Hampton
Chairman05
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
CEO’s statement
“Our ambition is to drive a high-performance
culture, putting science at the heart of GSK,
remaining true to our values and our purpose:
to help people do more, feel better, live longer.”
Emma Walmsley
Chief Executive Officer
Our long-term priorities I’m delighted to be introducing GSK’s Consumer Healthcare sales were driven
2017 Annual Report; my first as CEO. by our power brands which continued
Innovation See page 12
to outpace market growth. Sales from
Since starting in this role it has become
new GSK innovations represented
increasingly clear to me that while the
Performance See page 14 healthcare industry remains an attractive approximately 13% of turnover.
sector, it is entering a period of significant Total earnings per share were 31.4p
Trust See page 16 change bringing both challenges and after accounting charges of £1.6 billion
opportunities. In addition, despite improved related to US tax reform, with Adjusted
delivery in recent years, it is also clear there earnings per share up 11% AER, 4% CER
are several areas of the company that need to 111.8p.
Our three businesses to be strengthened. Group Adjusted operating margin improved,
Pharmaceuticals See page 22 That’s why, in July, I set out three long-term reflecting effective management of costs
priorities which everyone in the company and successful integrations of our new
is focused on: Innovation, Performance businesses in Vaccines and Consumer
Vaccines See page 30 and Trust. I believe these priorities enable Healthcare.
us to focus on areas we can improve and
We have renewed our emphasis on cost
Consumer See page 36 allow us to respond more effectively to our and cash discipline and I was pleased
operating environment. They will focus us
Healthcare to see our free cash flow for the year
on delivering improved performance and
was £3.4 billion, an improvement of over
better returns for shareholders over both
£400 million on the previous year. We
the short and long term, as well as a
met our expectation of paying a dividend
broader societal contribution.
of 80 pence per share for 2017 and we
2017 performance expect to deliver the same for 2018.
Group sales were £30.2 billion, up 8% at
Pipeline progress
actual rates and 3% at constant exchange
Towards the end of 2017 we received
rates (CER), with growth across all three
approvals for three key new products:
businesses. This is the first time Group
Shingrix, our new vaccine which represents
sales have reached more than £30 billion
a new standard for the prevention of
in a year.
shingles; Juluca, the first in a series of
New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine product 2-drug regimens for HIV which reduces
sales were £6.7 billion, with continued the number of drugs patients take as they
strong performances from our HIV are now living longer with what is becoming
medicines, Tivicay and Triumeq, our Ellipta a more chronic disease; and Trelegy Ellipta,
portfolio and biologic medicine Nucala in which is the first once a day inhaler to
Respiratory, and our meningitis vaccines. combine three medicines in one device
to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary
The performance of these new products
disease (COPD).
is a great demonstration of what we can
achieve when our commercial organisation Our focus in 2018 is to successfully launch
has clear focus. these new products which bring significant
benefits to patients, and to continue to
maximise our current portfolio.
Footnote
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS,
measures to report performance, as
described on page 58.06
GSK Annual Report 2017
CEO’S statement continued
I have been clear that we need to strengthen Hal is one of three senior leaders we
our Pharmaceutical business and pipeline appointed to the executive team last year.
as this will ultimately drive sustainable, Luke Miels joined as our new President,
long-term growth for the company. Pharmaceuticals and is responsible for
driving performance in the commercial
During 2017, we set out how we are
organisation and will work closely with
refocusing our R&D organisation on
Hal to ensure alignment with R&D.
four areas: two where we are a world
Karenann Terrell also joined us in a new
leader – Respiratory and HIV; and two
role as Chief Digital and Technology
potential areas – Oncology and Immuno-
Officer. Karenann joins at a time when
inflammation. Our pipeline in these potential
the overlap between healthcare and
areas is innovative but early, and over the
technology has never been more apparent
next 2 to 3 years we will continue to receive
and potentially transformative. Her role is
data from a number of key assets which
to ensure GSK is at the forefront of this
will inform how we progress them.
exciting new opportunity.
New external appointments
We have made a number of other changes
I am delighted that we appointed Dr Hal
in our senior leadership through the year,
Barron to be our Chief Scientific Officer
promoting great internal talent and
and President, R&D. He joins us from
bringing in fresh expertise from outside
Calico, an Alphabet-funded company, and
the company.
before that spent many years at Roche and
Genentech where he gained an exceptional Performance and values based culture
reputation for leading highly productive Our ambition is to drive a high-performance
R&D teams. I would like to thank Dr Patrick culture, putting science at the heart of
Vallance, our outgoing President of R&D, GSK, remaining true to our values and
for his contribution over the last 12 years our purpose: to help people do more, feel
and for ensuring a smooth transition with better, live longer. We have a long history in
Hal. I wish him well in his new role as the tackling some of the world’s biggest health
UK Government’s Chief Scientific Adviser, challenges. Our commitment to improving
for which he is uniquely qualified. global health and being a responsible
business will continue under my leadership.
Corporate Executive Team
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13
1. E mma Walmsley 5. S imon Dingemans 10. Karenann Terrell
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Digital and Technology Officer
2. Dr Hal Barron 6. N ick Hirons 11. Claire Thomas
C hief Scientific Officer and Senior Vice President, Global Ethics Senior Vice President,
President, R&D and Compliance Human Resources
3. Roger Connor 7. Brian McNamara 12. P hil Thomson
President, Global Manufacturing CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare President, Global Affairs
and Supply 8. L uke Miels 13. Dan Troy
4. Luc Debruyne President, Global Pharmaceuticals Senior Vice President
President, Global Vaccines 9. D avid Redfern and General Counsel
Chief Strategy Officer
See pages 86 to 8707
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our great people and their commitment are
foundational for GSK’s culture. During the
Technology is revolutionising healthcare
year, we conducted a new global employee
survey, aligned to our priorities, and I was
pleased to see a meaningful improvement New frontiers of innovation, such as genomics, are
in employee engagement scores, which
creating major opportunities for us – and patients.
are an important driver of performance.
Outlook
The ability to apply new technology We are also maximising the huge
Given the momentum we are seeing in across our R&D activities is creating amount of data within GSK by applying
our new products and recent launches, a major opportunity for GSK. Currently, artificial intelligence and machine
the operating performance improvements across the industry almost 90% of learning to allow us to identify
we are driving and the benefit of US tax medicines entering trials fail and never patterns that would have been almost
reform, we are increasingly confident in reach patients. In part this is because impossible to identify using traditional
our ability to deliver our 2020 outlook of we have an incomplete understanding methods. We can now model the right
mid to high single digit growth in Adjusted of the link between the biological patient population and where to find
EPS CAGR (2016–2020 at 2015 CER). target of a drug and human disease. them for our clinical trials, reduce or
While we could see generic competition Pursuing drug targets with human eliminate the need for some studies,
to Advair in the US in 2018 our guidance genetic evidence to support the and in some cases predict outcomes
for the year reflects this. Aside from Advair indication is estimated to double the in a virtual patient. It is allowing us
we do not expect to face significant generic probability of developing safe and to more effectively manage diversity
erosion in the US until the mid-2020s. effective medicines, and improve within our clinical trials to align with
research and development population demographics by analysing
Finally, I want to say thank you to GSK
productivity. In recent years, our clinical trials from the last ten years.
employees, partners and customers for
approximately 60% of GSK’s new
their work in 2017 and especially for their GSK is connecting and bringing
targets have been supported by human
support to me in my first year as CEO. to life patient data from genomics,
genetic evidence. It is also why GSK
I very much look forward to working with wearable devices, social media and
was one of the first companies to make
them in 2018 and beyond to deliver our other emerging sources, ensuring
a multi-million pound investment in UK
long-term priorities and improved we can leverage the opportunities
Biobank to support the generation of
performance for GSK. presented by these.
new genetic sequencing data from half
a million volunteers. The information
generated from this ground-breaking
health resource will provide vital
insights that we hope will inform
and support the development of
transformative medicines.
Emma Walmsley
Chief Executive Officer
Footnote
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, Image: Wellcome Images
measures to report performance, as
described on page 58.08
GSK Annual Report 2017
How we create long-term value
1
As a science-led global healthcare company our three businesses have the common
aim of improving health. On this page we describe the resources we rely on, how our
business activities span the lifecycle of a product, and how we create long-term value
for shareholders and society.
Our resources
Talented people
st
and
distrib
ute
returns Invest
in
scientific
r
e s e
ar
c
ve h
ein
R
D
e
Scientific and Pharmaceuticals v e
l
o
technical know-how p
m
e
n
t
Effective capital
allocation
G
Vaccines Our purpose
n
e o
n
e
ati
r s
External collaborations
a
t
e
r
e
erciali
v e Consumer m
n m
u Healthcare o
e
a d
c
n n
Supply chain
d
pr
o
fit
uring
a
ct
a
uf
M a n
Our long-term priorities Our values Our expectations
Innovation Patient focus Courage
Transparency Accountability
Performance
Respect Development
Trust
Integrity Teamwork09
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2 Industry trends 3 Our long-term priorities 4 How we measure success 5 How we manage risk
The value we create
For shareholders
We aim to deliver sustained industry-leading growth with competitive
costs, margins and cash flow. We distribute capital to shareholders
How we create value in the form of dividends.
31.4p 111.8p
Invest in scientific research
Total earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share
We invested £3.9 billion in research and
development to bring new medicines, vaccines
£3.9bn 80p
and consumer healthcare products to patients,
payers and consumers. Strategic business
development, including external partnerships 2017 dividends declared 2017 dividend per share
and joint ventures, supports our in-house
scientific research.
For patients and consumers
Generate revenue and profit
We aim to bring our differentiated, high-quality and needed healthcare
products to as many people as possible.
We generate revenue by executing new product
launches brilliantly and from the sales of our
existing portfolios. Each of our three businesses 1.9bn 798m 6.2bn
now has an integrated strategy with one P&L,
which enables us to drive competitive costs,
margins and cash flow across the company. Packs of medicine Vaccines sold Consumer Healthcare
sold products made
Reinvest and distribute returns
For employees and society
As part of our capital allocation framework we
reinvest in our three businesses and also provide
We want to run our company responsibly and ethically, and be
returns to shareholders in the form of dividends.
a modern employer with strong employee engagement. We make
a positive contribution to communities in which we operate through
creating employment, working with suppliers and paying tax.
98,462 £1.34bn
Employees Cash tax paid
Footnote
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures
to report performance, as described on page 58.10
GSK Annual Report 2017
Industry trends
1 How we create long-term value 2
We are operating in a fast-changing environment with potential
for growth. Here we outline some of the key opportunities and
challenges which influence our new long-term priorities.
The global healthcare market is growing. The healthcare industry is entering a Our strategic response
Global pharmaceutical sales were period of significant change bringing Our strategy is designed to respond
£738 billion on a 12-month rolling basis opportunities and challenges. As life to this changing environment: To bring
(September 2016–2017), up 3% from expectancy increases, demographic differentiated, high-quality and needed
September 2015–2016. North America changes are both supporting market healthcare products to as many people
remains the largest pharmaceutical growth and contributing to pressures as possible, with our three global
market with a 48% share of global sales.1 in the healthcare sector, particularly businesses, scientific and technical
Global vaccine sales totalled approximately on pricing and access. While these know-how, and talented people.
£19 billion in 2017, up 6% from 2016.2 challenges are not new for the industry, Our new long-term priorities of
Sales for consumer healthcare markets advances in science and technology Innovation, Performance and Trust
in which GSK operates total approximately are transforming the way scientists will help us to deliver our strategy.
£135 billion.2 research diseases and are likely to
improve how patients are diagnosed
and treated in the future.
Positive demographics
Demographic change such as
increasing life expectancy and an
Advances in science and
expanding global population is driving
technology disruption
demand for healthcare products.
Growing prosperity and changing diets
Better understanding of human biology
and lifestyles are also fuelling demand
and genomics is changing the way
for healthcare products – especially
scientists research diseases and their
for chronic conditions such as
ability to develop novel treatments for
respiratory disease.
patients. Advances in digital technology,
data and analytics are enabling Pricing and access
researchers to explore and interpret
ever-larger volumes of biological data Increasing demand for healthcare, partly
much faster than before. Technology led by demographic change, continues
is also now central to the way people to put pressure on government and
gain information, and compare and payer budgets. This is impacting both
buy healthcare products. developing and developed markets,
including Europe and the US where
both public and privately funded
organisations are looking for ways to
address the affordability of medicines.
1 IMS data
2 Internal data11
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
3 Our long-term priorities 4 How we measure success 5 How we manage risk
Societal expectations
Companies are expected to behave
with greater integrity, fairness and
transparency and to make a positive
contribution to society. For companies
to be sustainable they must create
long-term value for all of their
stakeholders, including shareholders, Genericisation and competition
employees, customers and
communities. Patent protection applies to
pharmaceutical medicines. As patents
expire or challenges are upheld by
competition authorities, patients
and payers gain access to generic
alternatives which are lower priced.
This generic competition often results
in lower sales of patented products.
Regulatory and political
environment
Healthcare is a highly regulated industry
reflecting public expectations that
products comply to stringent levels of
quality, safety and efficacy. Globally,
changing national politics are impacting
the operating environment particularly
as governments are often making
healthcare a priority. See page 55
for a summary of the impact of Brexit
for GSK.
Our long-term priorities
Innovation
Performance
Trust12
GSK Annual Report 2017
Our long-term priorities
1 How we create long-term value 2 Industry trends 3
Innovation
A strong patient and payer focused pipeline,
with the most competitive claims and labels,
and brilliant execution of our launches.13
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
4 How we measure success 5 How we manage risk
Innovation
Read more about Innovation
Innovation in
Pharmaceuticals
See pages 24–27
Innovation in
Vaccines
See pages 32–33
Innovation in
Consumer Healthcare
See pages 38–391144
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177
Our long-term priorities
1 How we create long-term value 2 Industry trends 3
Performance
Sustained industry-leading growth with
competitive costs, margin and cash flow.1155
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
4 How we measure success 5 How we manage risk
Performance
Read more about Performance
Performance in
Pharmaceuticals
See pages 28–29
Performance in
Vaccines
See pages 34–35
Performance in
Consumer Healthcare
See pages 40–411166
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177
Our long-term priorities
1 How we create long-term value 2 Industry trends 3
Trust
Maximising our social impact, ensuring
the reliable supply of our high-quality
products to as many people as possible,
and having highly engaged employees.1177
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
4 How we measure success 5 How we manage risk
Trust
Read about Trust across all three businesses
Addressing global health Sustainable access to our
through science high-quality products
See pages 44–45 See pages 46–47
Modern employer Ethical conduct and
environmental sustainability
See pages 48–49 See pages 50–5118
GSK Annual Report 2017
How we measure success
1 How we create long-term value 2 Industry trends 3 Our long-term priorities 4
We have identified ten operating Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs) to track progress against our new Group turnover +8%
long-term priorities: AER
£30.2bn
+3%
CER
Innovation Innovation sales, pipeline value
and progress
Performance Turnover, profit, cash flow, market Growth %
AER CER
share, top talent in key roles
2015 23.9 4 6
Trust Supply service levels, employee
engagement, corporate reputation 2016 27.9 17 6
2017 30.2 8 3
Here we provide performance data for the operating
KPIs we are reporting externally. Due to commercial 0 6 12 18 24 30
sensitivities, we are not planning to publish data for
How we performed
all operating KPIs. Group turnover for the year increased 8% AER, 3% CER to
£30.2 billion, with growth delivered by all three businesses.
Pay for performance
The Remuneration policy used to reward the performance Pharmaceuticals sales were up 7% AER, 3% CER reflecting the
continued strong growth of the new Respiratory and HIV products,
of our executives includes measures linked to our KPIs
partly offset by declines in older Respiratory products. Vaccines sales
(see pages 116, 120 and 122).
were up 12% AER, 6% CER, reflecting a strong performance from
meningitis and influenza vaccines. Consumer Healthcare sales grew
8% AER, 2% CER reflecting a strong performance from power brands
in the Pain and Oral health categories, partly offset by the impact of
continued competitive pressures in the US allergy category and a
broader market slowdown.
Operating profit and margin Earnings per share
£4.1bn 31.4p
Total Total
£8.6bn 111.8p
Adjustedc Adjustedc
Growth % Growth %
Total Adjusted AER CER Total Adjusted AER CER
2015 10.3 43.1% >>>111000000 >100 2015 174.3 >100 >100
5.7b 23.7% (12) (8) 74.6b (19) (14)
2016 2.6 9.3% (75) (86) 201618.8 (89) (99)
7.7b 27.5% 36 14 100.6b 35 11
2017 4.1 13.5% 57 39 2017 31.4 67 36
8.6 28.4% 12 5 111.8 11 4
0 2 4 6 8 10 0 40 80 120 160 200
How we performed How we performed
Total operating profit was £4.1 billion, 57% higher on an AER basis, The increase in total earnings per share reflected the reduced impact
39% higher CER. of charges arising from the revaluations of the liabilities for contingent
consideration and the put options associated with the Group’s HIV and
Adjusted operating profit was £8.6 billion, 12% higher on a AER
Consumer Healthcare businesses, the benefit from Swiss tax reform
basis, 5% higher CER. The Adjusted operating margin of 28.4% was
and improved performance by the relevant businesses, partly offset by
0.9 percentage points higher than in 2016 and 0.4 percentage points
charges arising from US tax reform.
higher on a CER basis. This reflected improved operating leverage driven
by sales growth together with a more favourable mix and continued tight Adjusted earnings per share of 111.8p was up 11% at AER, 4% CER in
control of ongoing costs across all three businesses. line with guidance provided in July 2017.
Linked to remuneration19
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
5 How we manage risk
New product/innovation sales Free cash flow
£6.7bn £3.4bn
Growth £%
2015 2.0 2015 (0.5) a >(100)
2016 4.5 2016 3.0a >100
2017 6.7 2017 3.4 14
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 -1 0 1 2 3 4
Definition Definition
In 2015, we identified a series of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine The calculation of free cash flow is described on page 58 and a
products that were expected to deliver at least £6 billion of revenues reconciliation is provided on page 71.
per annum on a CER basis by 2020. A full list of the products included
How we performed
in this definition is provided on page 60.
We have increased free cash flow by over £400 million after investing
How we performed in the Priority Review Voucher and approximately £450 million into
Sales of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products were £6.7 billion, inventory, primarily to support the new launches.
an increase of 51% at AER, 44% CER and represented approximately
30% of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover in the year. At 2015
exchange rates, the equivalent value of the 2017 sales was £5.7 billion.
Linked to remuneration Linked to remuneration
Dividends declared Employee engagement
£3.9bn 79%
favourable responses to
our global employee survey
Dividends
2015 3.9 1.0d Description
We now measure employee engagement twice annually by inviting
2016 3.9 all GSK employees to participate in a global employee survey. Our
engagement KPI is based on favourable responses to four questions:
2017 3.9 pride in the company, feeling valued as an employee, having the
opportunity to do meaningful and challenging work, and recommending
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 GSK as a great place to work. In 2017, 83% of employees participated
How we performed in our new survey; our engagement score was 79% and we have set this
as the baseline for future improvement. The score represented a 10%
For both 2016 and 2017 we declared dividends to shareholders of
increase from 2015 for three of the four questions directly comparable.
80p per share, giving a total return of £3.9 billion in each year.
Footnotes
a Revised to include all contingent consideration payments.
b A djusted results now exclude only significant legal charges per revised definition on page 58. Prior year figures have been revised.
c W e use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 58, including Adjusted results, free cash flow and
CER growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
d 2015 includes special dividend.20
GSK Annual Report 2017
How we manage risk
1 How we create long-term value 2 Industry trends 3 Our long-term priorities 4 How we measure success
Our principal risks are regularly reviewed by the CET. Below we list the principal
risks managed across the Group in 2017, including our assessment of any change
in the risk during the year due to macro events or mitigating GSK activities.
GSK
exposure
Macro post
Risk description Assessment and mitigating activities environment mitigation
Patient safety – The macro environment remained unchanged, with patient
safety regulation and Good Pharmacovigilance Practices
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow
up, or report adverse events from all potential remaining consistent.
sources, and to act on any relevant findings – The GSK exposure level remained unchanged. The risk has
in a timely manner.
been maintained at an appropriate level through continued
strong oversight, by further developing our capabilities to
detect safety issues, and by making key safety processes
and standards simpler and more effective.
Product quality – The macro risk level remained unchanged, with continuing
industry-level regulatory scrutiny of data integrity, drug
Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing
Practices or inadequate controls and governance shortages, and an expectation of timely communication
of quality in the supply chain covering supplier of issues with authorities.
standards, manufacturing and distribution of
– The GSK exposure level remained unchanged. The risk has
products.
been maintained at an appropriate level through our effective
response to external inspections in 2017 and continuous
improvement in data integrity programmes and our quality
management system.
Financial controls & reporting – The macro risk level remained unchanged, due to no material
increase in financial reporting requirements.
Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring
significant losses due to treasury activities; – The GSK exposure level reduced due to our strong risk
failure to report accurate financial information management and governance approach and further
in compliance with accounting standards and
embedding of system changes, controls standardisation
applicable legislation.
and process simplification.
Anti-bribery & corruption (ABAC) – The macro risk level increased due to more stringent ABAC
laws and a rise in enforcement by regulators.
Failure of GSK employees, complementary
workers and third parties to comply with our – The GSK exposure level remained unchanged as we enhanced
ABAC principles and standards, as well as our use of data to better inform business decisions, strengthened
with all applicable legislation.
our management of ABAC risk in our third party network and
introduced an improved ABAC standard further clarifying our
stance on expected behaviours. Government investigations
regarding our China and other business operations are ongoing
(see page 230).
Commercial practices – The macro risk level increased due to greater competitive
pressure, increased regulatory enforcement and an expansion
Failure to engage in commercial activities
that are consistent with the letter and spirit of of digital marketing, where laws and regulations are still evolving.
the law, industry, or the Group’s requirements – The GSK exposure level remained unchanged as we continued
relating to marketing and communications
to develop robust controls over mature commercial practices in
about our medicines and associated therapeutic
order to apply appropriate oversight and assurance across
areas; appropriate interactions with healthcare
markets. In 2017, as we increased digital capability across GSK,
professionals (HCPs) and patients; and legitimate
and transparent transfer of value. we enhanced our internal controls to mitigate risk.21
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
5
Arrows key
Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk
GSK
exposure
Macro post
Risk description Assessment and mitigating activities environment mitigation
Research practices – The macro risk level remained unchanged despite evolving
regulation, and continuing industry-level regulatory scrutiny
Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound
pre-clinical and clinical research. In addition, failure of data integrity.
to engage in scientific activities that are consistent – The GSK exposure level remained unchanged. The risk
with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or
has been maintained at an appropriate level through our
the Group’s requirements, and failure to secure
strengthened governance structure, which includes enterprise-
adequate patent protection for GSK’s products.
wide management of risk and enables better information sharing,
and an increased focus on IT systems, data and analytics.
Third party oversight (TPO) – The macro environment has remained unchanged as the industry
continues to be vigilant about third-party risks in global sourcing
Failure to maintain adequate governance and
oversight over third-party relationships and failure and supply, and consumer and investor expectations mature.
of third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, – The GSK exposure level reduced following the roll-out of our
confidentiality or other obligations.
TPO programme, which risk assessed over 95% of our third
parties with whom we directly engage. This will enable us to
identify and manage risks consistently and proportionately.
Improvement plans are in place where required and the insights
from the programme have informed sourcing processes to
further mitigate risk.
Environment, health & safety – The macro risk level increased due to greater emphasis on
and sustainability (EHS&S) the environment and antimicrobial resistance, increasing
emerging market regulation, the potential impact of EU chemicals
Failure to manage environment, health and safety
legislation and the greater use of third parties to develop
and sustainability risks in line with our objectives
and policies and with relevant laws and regulations. pipeline assets.
– The GSK exposure level remained unchanged due to continued
execution of our enterprise strategy and our strengthening
of EHS&S controls.
Information protection – The macro risk level continued to increase as the threat against
the pharmaceutical business and industry generally became
The risk to GSK business activities if information
becomes disclosed to those not authorised to see more sophisticated and targeted, as evidenced by the Wannacry
it, or if information or systems fail to be available or and NotPetya global incidents, and new regulations were
are corrupted, typically because of cybersecurity introduced, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
threats, although accident or malicious insider
– Despite this, the GSK exposure level remained unchanged
action may be contributory causes. This also
due to further development of our programme to safeguard
includes the risk of failure to collect, secure, and
use personal information in accordance with data against cyber-attacks and protect critical information and
privacy laws. systems, and our ability to balance the demands of regulation
with our digital transformation, which involves increased data
collection and analysis.
Supply chain & crisis – The macro risk level remained unchanged with ongoing stringent
management regulation, a continued US focus on contract manufacturers
outside the US/EU, and increasing data integrity expectations.
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant
finished products; inability to respond effectively – The GSK exposure level reduced due to improved risk
to a crisis incident in a timely manner to recover management of our supplier portfolio, progress in completing
and sustain critical operations, including key supply remediation programmes, and improvements to our
supply chains. crisis and continuity management framework.
For more information see pages 257 to 266
See page 57 for our viability statement22
GSK Annual Report 2017
Oncology
Immune system T-cells attacking a cancer cell23
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals
Our Pharmaceuticals business has a broad portfolio of
innovative and established medicines. We are focused on
developing new medicines in respiratory, HIV, oncology
and immuno-inflammation, with discovery research
exploring these and other areas.
Pharmaceuticals sales were up 7% AER, In 2017 we had two significant
3% CER, reflecting the continued strong Pharmaceutical approvals: Trelegy Ellipta,
growth of Nucala and our Ellipta portfolio which provides three medicines in a once
in Respiratory, and Tivicay and Triumeq a day, single inhaler to treat COPD; and
Dave, oncology scientist, UK
in HIV. Juluca, the first 2-drug regimen, once-daily, We have joined forces with our partners to rapidly
single pill for HIV, which helps to reduce evolve the science of immuno-oncology, in one
the amount of medicines patients need. area we are working on increasing the ability of
the body’s immune system to help detect and
Pharmaceuticals turnover £m attack cancer cells.
Respiratory 6,991
HIV 4,350
Immuno-inflammation 377
Established Pharmaceuticals 5,558
Total 17,276
Fran, cancer survivor and GSK employee
What’s next
Innovation in
Pharmaceuticals
See pages 24–27
Performance in
Pharmaceuticals
See pages 28–29
We report on our Trust priority
Footnote across all three businesses
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS,
measures to report performance, as See pages 42–51
described on page 58.24
GSK Annual Report 2017
Pharmaceuticals
Innovation Our priority is to strengthen our Pharmaceuticals
business by focusing on fewer assets, improving the
R&D and commercial interface, and with brilliant
execution of launches.
Our Pharmaceuticals business continues We have created a more integrated,
to grow and we are global leaders in competitive Pharmaceuticals business
Respiratory and HIV. In 2017, we had two by significantly strengthening the existing
best-in-class medicines approved: Trelegy partnership between R&D and commercial.
Ellipta, our once-daily triple therapy for We have made several significant
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease leadership appointments including
(COPD) in a single inhaler; and Juluca, the Hal Barron, Chief Scientific Officer
first two-drug regimen, once-daily, single and President of R&D, and Luke Miels,
pill for HIV. We also made important President, Global Pharmaceuticals.
progress across our pipeline assets. Both are highly respected leaders with
a track record of bringing new medicines
Delivering best-in-class innovation to market.
Respiratory
We need to focus on medicines with the
We have been a leader in respiratory
greatest potential, back them and stop
medicine for nearly 50 years and remain
other projects. Following a review of our
at the forefront of scientific research in this
drug development process, we are
area, offering innovative medicines aimed
focusing on priority assets in two areas
at treating patients’ symptoms and reducing
where we are world leaders – Respiratory
the risk of their disease worsening.
and HIV – and two potential areas –
Oncology and Immuno-inflammation.
Trelegy Ellipta
To ensure we have sufficient funding During the year, we gained US and
and resource for our priority areas and European regulatory approval for Trelegy
medicines – those where GSK can Ellipta, our new once-daily triple therapy
support more patients and strengthen for COPD in a single inhaler. This launch
our existing business over the long term adds to our portfolio of once-daily, inhaled
– we terminated more than 60 pre-clinical respiratory medicines – the broadest in
and clinical programmes. These included our industry.
ending our collaboration with Janssen
We also achieved positive headline results
Biologics on sirukumab and starting the
from the Trelegy Ellipta phase III IMPACT
process of identifying a new owner for
study. The 10,000+ patient study found
our rare disease gene therapy medicines.
the once-daily triple therapy achieved
significant reductions in moderate/severe
exacerbations for COPD patients when
compared with two other once-daily
dual medicines from our Ellipta portfolio.
We have submitted additional regulatory
filings supported by the IMPACT data, with
the aim of expanding the patient population
for Trelegy Ellipta in COPD. We are
also investigating the efficacy and safety
of Trelegy Ellipta in a phase III study
(CAPTAIN) as a treatment for patients
with asthma.25
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other respiratory assets Juluca
We continue to lead in respiratory biologics In November, we received US FDA
Strategy in action
and believe Nucala (mepolizumab) offers approval for Juluca, a once-daily, single
a highly competitive profile. We received pill 2DR regimen for HIV. Juluca combines
“Scientific innovation is
FDA approval for an additional indication dolutegravir with rilpivirine (Edurant,
at the heart of GSK and for mepolizumab, as the first targeted a Janssen medicine) and is a complete
treatment for uncontrolled eosinophilic regimen for treating HIV in adults who
is our highest priority as
granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA). are virologically suppressed and have
we build the next wave of We have also submitted a regulatory file for no resistance. The SWORD studies
mepolizumab for the treatment of COPD. of over 1,000 patients in phase III trials
growth for the company.” showed Juluca achieved non-inferior viral
Our other priority respiratory assets
suppression compared with traditional
also target COPD and are in phase II
3-drug regimens. Through the purchase
trials: danirixin, a first-in-class oral
and use of a Priority Review Voucher,
CXCR2 antagonist, and nemiralisib,
we accelerated this approval in the US.
a highly selective first-in-class
Following our June 2017 submission to
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta
the European Medicines Agency (EMA)
(PI3Kδ) inhibitor.
for regulatory approval, we expect a
HIV response in 2018.
We have a long-standing commitment
Other HIV assets
to HIV and are investigating new paradigms
Our 2DR clinical trial programme now
Dr Hal Barron for treatment, prevention and cure.
Chief Scientific Officer Dolutegravir is the number one core agent consists of eight phase III clinical trials,
and President, R&D globally, and through the success of Tivicay two of which have completed (SWORD
studies) and support approval of Juluca,
and Triumeq, it offers important benefits
with four other studies due to report
for a wide range of patients. It can be used
in 2018.
without the need for a booster, and showed
superior efficacy in five different clinical Dolutegravir and lamivudine is being
studies. It is generally well tolerated and investigated versus a traditional 3-drug
has a high barrier to resistance and few regimen for treatment-naive HIV patients
interactions with commonly used in the GEMINI 1 & 2 studies, and in the
medications. TANGO trial for patients who have achieved
viral suppression on a tenofovir alafenamide
Today, due to advances in antiretroviral
fumarate (TAF)-based regimen.
therapy (ART), people living with HIV have
near normal life expectancies compared The long-acting 2DR of cabotegravir
to the general population, but may spend and rilpivirine, is being investigated for
decades on HIV treatment. Our innovative administration every four weeks in virally
research into 2-drug regimens (2DR) suppressed adults with HIV-1 infection
was initiated in response to physician (ATLAS and FLAIR). In addition, the
and patient demand to reduce long-term ATLAS 2M study has started to investigate
ART exposure. administration every two months.
We also have two phase III studies that
began in 2017 to evaluate cabotegravir
as a long-acting monotherapy in the
prevention of HIV. These trials are being
conducted through a public-private
funding collaboration.26
GSK Annual Report 2017
Pharmaceuticals continued
Oncology Immuno-inflammation
In Oncology, we are focused on delivering Immuno-inflammatory diseases are
transformational therapies that can lengthen relatively common, chronic and debilitating
the lives of patients with cancer. In 2017, we conditions, for which there remains
made significant progress in our emerging significant unmet medical need. To
portfolio of next generation therapies in the discover the next breakthrough for immune-
areas of immuno-oncology, cell therapy mediated diseases, we are focusing on
and epigenetics. transformational medicines that could
potentially alter the course of inflammatory
Our 2857916 monoclonal antibody against
disease and induce sustainable remission.
BCMA has the potential to target a number
of tumour types, including relapsed and We received approval in the US and EU for
refractory multiple myeloma. Promising a new subcutaneous (SC) formulation of
early results suggest a highly competitive Benlysta, our treatment for systemic lupus
profile compared with existing approved erythematosus, which enables either home
Read more about our Pharmaceuticals
treatments for multiple myeloma. It has or hospital administration of the medicine.
pipeline on pages 251 to 252
been granted European PRIME and FDA We also received approval in Japan for the
breakthrough status, potentially resulting use of Benlysta for the first time.
in faster review by the regulatory authorities
We have two phase II immuno-inflammation
when it is filed.
priority assets: 3196165, a monoclonal
We exercised our option to gain an antibody which blocks the effect of anti-
exclusive global licence from Adaptimmune granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating
for 3377794, an investigational SPEAR factor (GM-CSF), for rheumatoid arthritis
T-cell receptor targeting NY-ESO-1, and and osteoarthritis, and 2982772, a receptor
were granted European PRIME and FDA interacting protein-1 (RIP1) kinase inhibitor
breakthrough status. Another oncology for psoriasis, ulcerative colitis and
therapy, 3359609, is the first investigational rheumatoid arthritis.
inducible T-cell costimulator (ICOS) agonist
Future pipeline optionality
antibody to enter human clinical trials.
Outside our core therapy areas, we have
Both of these assets are in phase I/II trials.
a number of other promising programmes,
including two late-stage priority assets:
oral daprodustat, in phase III trials for
anaemia associated with chronic renal
disease, and an anti-SAP therapy for
amyloidosis, currently in phase II.
Strengthening the
Ensuring there is a strong partnership
R&D commercial between our R&D and commercial
functions is a priority for us. This will
interface
help ensure we deliver differentiated
medicines with the most competitive
profiles and robust evidence plans to
compete effectively in today’s dynamic
market. A single strategy across R&D
and commercial will ensure alignment
and focus across the business. We
are simplifying our processes to
eliminate complexity, and in parallel,
strengthening our commercial and
medical resource to drive
performance.27
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Accelerating priority assets New technology frontiers
Strategy in action
We are improving the pace of our medicines Digital technology is having an impact on
development by enhancing our speed-to- every part of our business and our goal is
clinical decision making through changes to harness these developments in data-rich,
to our governance and by adapting the way information-based medicine to accelerate
we design and conduct our clinical trials. our drug discovery and development, and
drive our business forward.
To support this acceleration we established
a new Board committee of global scientific Collaborations remain key to our innovation.
experts, the Science Committee, to ensure During the year, we joined forces with two
that emerging scientific and medical external companies to harness artificial
knowledge is integrated into our strategic intelligence (AI): Exscientia, a UK specialist
planning. In addition, a new Development in machine-learning; and Insilico Medicine,
Advisory Committee will provide the Board a US leader in AI-led drug discovery.
with strategic guidance on all aspects of
We also co-founded the private-public
our current and future development activity,
Accelerating Therapies for Opportunities
with full consideration of emerging trends
in Medicine (ATOM) consortium, based in
and alternative approaches. See page 109
the US. This aims to cut pre-clinical cancer
for more information.
drug discovery from six years to just one,
Our early research infrastructure – using supercomputers to analyse data
around 25 discovery performance units from failed R&D programmes with the aim
(DPUs) with their own project accountability of finding patterns and vital clues to aid
and budgets – encourages a competitive successful future development. We are
dimension to proposed areas of discovery also supporting the UK Biobank, a ground-
research and capital allocation. breaking initiative to generate anonymised
genetic sequence data from 50,000
volunteer participants to deliver insights
into why some people are at greater risk
of disease. In addition, we continue to work
on the Open Targets programme, which
supports an open access search engine
that searches, evaluates and integrates
biologic and genetic disease data.
Drug discovery and development
Regulatory
Drug discovery Pre-clinical Clinical trials review Manufacturing
5,000–10,000 250 5
compounds One
approved
Number of volunteers drug
20–80 100–300 1,000–3,000
Phase I Phase II Phase III
3–6 years 6–7 years 0.5–2 years
Source: Pharmaceuticals Research and Manufacturers of America
yrevocsid-erP elfi
yrotalugeR dettimbus
noitacilppa
gurd
weN
dettimbus
ecnallievrus
gnitekram-tsoP
“Digital technology
will transform many
aspects of how we
develop new medicines
and interact with our
customers.”
Karenann Terrell
Chief Digital and Technology Officer28
GSK Annual Report 2017
Pharmaceuticals continued
Performance Pharmaceuticals sales were up 7% AER, 3% CER,
reflecting the continued strong growth of our new
Respiratory and HIV products.
2017 performance summary Immuno-inflammation sales were
£377 million, up 11% AER, 6% CER
Pharmaceuticals turnover in 2017 was in the year.
£17,276 million, up 7% AER, 3% CER.
Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals
In the US, total sales were £7,568 million,
were £5,558 million, declining 2% AER,
up 11% AER, 6% CER primarily driven
5% CER, reflecting a three percentage
by new Respiratory and HIV products.
point impact from recent divestments
In Europe sales were £3,983 million,
of non-core assets.
up 3% AER but down 3% CER, reflecting
the continued transition of the Respiratory The Pharmaceuticals operating margin
portfolio, generic competition to Kivexa was 34.3%, up 0.2 percentage points
and the disposal of the Romanian AER but down 0.6 percentage points
distribution business. International sales CER primarily reflecting increased R&D
were £5,725 million, up 6% AER and investment, including using a Priority
4% CER. Review Voucher in Q2 2017. The lower
operating margin also reflected increased
Respiratory sales were up 7% AER, 3%
investment in new product support, as well
CER to £6,991 million. New Respiratory
as the continued impact of lower prices,
products recorded combined sales of
particularly in Respiratory, partly offset by
£1,930 million in 2017, more than offsetting
a more favourable product mix, primarily
the decline in Seretide/Advair.
driven by the growth in HIV sales, and
HIV sales increased 22% AER, 16% CER the continued cost reduction benefit
to £4,350 million in the year. The growth of the Group’s Pharmaceuticals
was driven by continued increases in restructuring programme.
market share for Triumeq and Tivicay, partly
offset by the impact of generic competition
to Epzicom/Kivexa, particularly affecting
the European market.
Delivering world
Our ambitious commercial efforts are For our asthma medicine, Relvar/Breo
class capability focused on driving the continuous growth Ellipta, this focus on target customer
of our priority brands in our largest groups helped this medicine become
markets, most notably the US. Our R&D the first of our new Respiratory portfolio
teams continue to generate evidence to be a £1 billion brand, helping over
from clinical trials to support the right four million patients this year.
patients for each medicine, as well
as the differentiation of our brands.
In 2017, strategic use of data and
analytics has enabled us to optimise
the role, engagement and training of our
salesforce. This has helped make sure
their knowledge of the disease, our
strategy and the competitive environment
have led to truly competitive customer
engagement from day one of launch.29
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2020 outlook Creating a simpler, competitive
supply chain
Strategy in action
Over the five years to 2020 we expect a We are simplifying our manufacturing
low single-digit CAGR for sales (at 2015 and supply chain to achieve competitive
“Strong sales of our new
exchange rates) despite a higher level and sustainable performance – delivering
products show we can of divestments over the period than we strong results in the fundamentals of safety,
originally expected. Strong performances quality and service, as well as improved
achieve great things
from our new medicines together with financial performance. We are focused on
when we are focused.” disciplined cost management are expected fewer priorities, removing waste and making
to enable the business to achieve an things simpler. Our current plans address
operating margin in the low 30s percentage productivity improvement, procurement
range in 2020 (at 2015 exchange rates) savings and working with our supplier base
even if an automatically substitutable to prioritise fewer, more strategic supplier
generic version of Advair is launched relationships. We are on track to reduce
in the US. our suppliers by approximately 30% –
leveraging our scale and standardising
Driving performance for specifications to use fewer bespoke
profitable, sustainable growth materials and improving our cost of goods.
We continue to invest in our manufacturing
In 2017, we refocused our Pharmaceuticals
Luke Miels network and advanced manufacturing
business to make it stronger and more
President, Global Pharmaceuticals technologies which have the potential
competitive in order to deliver improved,
to improve product quality while reducing
sustainable returns. Under the leadership
material waste and lead times for new
of Luke Miels, we have simplified our
capacity. Our work with continuous
commercial management structure
processing is well advanced and, where
and reshaped our operations. We are
deployed, could reduce cost of goods
aggressively reallocating resources to
by up to 20% in the long term.
those areas best able to deliver profitable
sustainable growth and returns, with Digital transformation
much more focus on new medicines Our goal is to apply digital technology
and major markets. that delivers truly competitive customer
engagement to drive better performance.
The changes we are making will drive
sharper prioritisation, a simpler portfolio, Our investment in this area is underpinned
faster decision making, more effective by our appointment of Karenann Terrell
capital allocation and a strong focus as Chief Digital and Technology Officer,
on execution. who joined in September 2017 to help
drive a digital transformation programme
In 2017, we began streamlining our
across our three businesses.
Pharmaceuticals products portfolio by
exiting from or divesting 90 non-core Across the Pharmaceuticals business
brands and we are on track to reach we are using new technologies to improve
our goal of about 20% fewer brands. performance with an increased focus
This included announcing an end to the on improving the customer experience.
manufacture and sale of the type 2 diabetes This includes customer-centric integrated
therapy Eperzan/Tanzeum which we now campaigns and personalised content
expect to end during 2018. In addition, to help healthcare professionals deliver
we announced a strategic review of our better patient outcomes and to drive
cephalosporins antibiotics business preference for our brands.
with an option to sell.
We are restructuring our emerging
markets business to improve growth,
profitability and sustainability while
continuing to ensure access for the patients
that need our medicines. Simplifying the
geographies, reducing organisational
layers and simplifying our cost structures,
including moving to an export model in
some markets, will support faster, more
aligned execution.
Footnote
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS,
measures to report performance, as
described on page 58.30
GSK Annual Report 2017
Shingles
Herpes zoster virus
of shingles31
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Virginie, Laboratory Technician,
Vaccines R&D
Our new vaccine Shingrix represents a significant
advance in vaccine technology and has clinically
demonstrated a strong and sustained immune
response and efficacy against shingles and its
painful complications.
Alain, shingles sufferer and GSK employee
Vaccines
Our Vaccines business has a broad portfolio and innovative
pipeline of vaccines to help protect people throughout life.
We deliver over two million vaccine doses per day to people
living in over 160 countries.
Vaccines sales were up 12% AER, During the year, we received US FDA What’s next
6% CER, primarily driven by meningitis approval for Shingrix, our new vaccine
vaccines, with Bexsero growing across all which represents a new standard for Innovation in
regions and Menveo in the US and Europe, the prevention of shingles. Vaccines
and higher sales of influenza products,
See pages 32–33
Vaccines turnover £m
primarily in the US and Europe.
Meningitis 890
Influenza 488 Performance in
Shingles 22 Vaccines
Established Vaccines 3,760 See pages 34–35
Total 5,160
We report on our Trust priority
Footnote across all three businesses
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS,
measures to report performance, as See pages 42–51
described on page 58.32
GSK Annual Report 2017
Vaccines
Innovation Our advanced science and technology platform capability
enables us to discover and develop vaccines that help
protect people in over 160 countries from serious diseases.
Our vaccines strategy is to bring Following approval by the US Food and
differentiated, high-quality and needed Drug Administration (FDA) in October
vaccines to as many people as possible. 2017, the competitive position of
We have global scale and are well Shingrix has been further strengthened
positioned to take advantage of changing by recommendations from the US Centers
demographics. Vaccines are long-term for Disease Control and Prevention’s
assets without the volatility of patent cliffs, (CDC’s) Advisory Committee on
which provides opportunities to invest in Immunization Practices (ACIP) naming it
life-cycle management and improve the as the preferred shingles vaccine for adults
competitive profile of our existing vaccines aged 50 and over. The recommendation
to better meet patient needs. includes revaccinating those who had
previously received the competitor vaccine,
We focus on finding new candidate
meaning over 100 million people in the US
vaccines to help protect people of all
will be eligible for the Shingrix vaccine.
ages from disease and have a pipeline
of 14 candidate vaccines currently in In January 2018, we received a positive
development. We believe that a core opinion from the European Medicines
competitive advantage is our expertise in Agency’s (EMA’s) Committee for Medicinal
technology platforms which facilitates the Products for Human Use for Shingrix.
development of more effective vaccines. The results of regulatory filings for
Shingrix in Australia and Japan are also
Innovation in action due in 2018. In addition, in December 2017
we announced new data confirming the
In 2017, we received regulatory approval safety and efficacy of Shingrix in immuno-
in the US and Canada for Shingrix, with compromised autologous haematopoietic
an efficacy of over 90%, which we believe stem cell transplant patients.
provides a step change in the prevention
Our commercial, manufacturing and R&D
of shingles. We anticipate it could drive
teams have worked closely together to
one-third of Vaccines growth between
ensure the Shingrix launch is executed
2015 and 2020. More than 90% of people
flawlessly. We are taking a staged approach
over 50 are infected with the varicella zoster
to the global launch in order to manage
virus that causes shingles and one in three
the strong anticipated demand with
will develop shingles in their lifetime.
reliable supply.
Breakthrough
Shingles is a painful and potentially
vaccine science serious condition. Shingrix was
developed specifically to overcome the
age-related decline in immunity and is
the first shingles vaccine to combine a
non-live antigen, to trigger a targeted
immune response, with a specifically
designed adjuvant system, AS01B,
to make that response strong and
sustained. This adjuvant is also used
in our RTS,S vaccine for the prevention
of malaria in children.33
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Delivering best-in-class innovation We have developed the only malaria
vaccine candidate to have received positive
Strategy in action
We are aiming to develop assets which opinion from the European Medicines
are best in class. Our investment in unique Agency (EMA) (see page 44).
“With our global Vaccines
technology platforms, including adjuvants,
R&D organisation, is delivering a competitive advantage in New technology frontiers
targeting new, emerging and remaining
supported by unique
medical needs. We have new technologies, including
technology platforms adjuvant systems, structural vaccinology
Meningitis
and synthetic vaccine platforms that are
and talented people, we Our focus is to maintain GSK’s helping us move beyond observation and
meningococcal meningitis market
experimentation methods of vaccine
are developing vaccines leadership with both licensed and candidate
development to create ‘vaccines by design’.
to meet existing and vaccines. We aim to broaden the age These are made up of antigens, delivery
range of our meningococcal vaccines
systems and adjuvants that can help
emerging needs.” in the US and demonstrate their impact in
increase the immune system’s response
infants as well as meningococcal carriage
to a vaccine.
in adolescents. In February 2018, we were
granted Breakthrough Designation for GSK has been innovating in adjuvant
Bexsero in children aged 2 to 10 years. systems for more than 25 years. Our unique
We are also working on new formulations, approach has led to the development of
including a fully liquid presentation of our several ‘adjuvant systems (AS) families’,
tetravalent vaccine for MenACWY, Menveo, which use a combination of adjuvants to
which is expected to enter phase II clinical achieve a better immune response and
trials in 2018. The results from our phase III are fundamental to the next generation
study of our booster for Menveo are of our vaccines portfolio.
Emmanuel Hanon expected in 2018. We are also committed Our self-amplifying mRNA (SAM)
Senior Vice President, to developing a single vaccine that tackles technology uses the human body as
Head of R&D, Vaccines all five of the most common serogroups, a ‘factory’ to produce its own vaccines.
A, B, C, W and Y. SAM will not require traditional vaccine
Reflecting our active life-cycle management production methods, so could potentially
of our vaccines – where we strategically enable us to produce vaccines more
plan an asset’s commercial journey from quickly and simply. We are in the early
its final clinical trials onwards – we continue stages but data from a variety of animal
to expand target populations and protection. models show SAM performs well.
In this way, we aim to extend patient
benefits, increase use of our vaccines External partnerships
and be the leader in helping to prevent
meningococcal disease. Collaboration is central to our innovation.
We have around 180 external scientific
In line with this approach, we are supporting
collaborations, with most of our 14
an extensive study to examine if the
candidate vaccines being developed in
meningococcal B vaccine reduces the
partnership. Such collaborations enable
spread of meningococcal bacteria in
our 2,000 Vaccines scientists at our global
teenagers through ‘herd immunity’. This
R&D centres, in the US, Belgium and Italy,
involves vaccinating 35,000 teenagers in
to learn from other experts and stay close
South Australia, which has a high incidence
to emerging technologies. For example,
of meningococcal B disease.
we are involved in the phase II trial of an
Other priority assets HIV vaccine with a group of NGOs and
other pharmaceutical companies, led by
Building on GSK’s existing respiratory
the US National Institutes of Health.
leadership position through our
Pharmaceuticals business, we have
a number of candidate vaccines targeting
respiratory diseases. These include our
candidate vaccine for chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD), which
began a phase II proof of concept study
in Europe in 2017. Other growth drivers
in the respiratory portfolio are our
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
candidates, with different approaches
tailored to each age group. We also
have a research collaboration focused Read more about our Vaccines
on tuberculosis, with our candidate pipeline on page 253
vaccine currently in phase II trials.34
GSK Annual Report 2017
Vaccines continued
Performance Demand for our world-leading meningitis portfolio
contributed to a 12% AER, 6% CER increase in
Vaccines sales.
2017 performance summary Following 2017 launches in Argentina
and Belgium, Bexsero is now available
Vaccines sales grew 12% AER, 6% CER in 24 countries. The vaccine’s broad age
to £5,160 million, primarily driven by indication provides competitive advantage
meningitis vaccines, with Bexsero growing in Europe, and in the US it offers the
across all regions and Menveo in the US fastest series completion, with two doses
and Europe and higher sales of influenza administered in about one month.
products, primarily in the US and Europe.
Menveo sales grew 36% AER, 29% CER,
Vaccines operating margin was 31.9%, primarily driven by the impact of favourable
up 0.8 percentage points AER and year-on-year CDC stockpile movements,
1.3 percentage points higher on a CER partly offset by supply constraints in
basis. This was primarily driven by improved International.
product mix, the benefit of a settlement
for lost third-party supply volume, together Influenza
with continued restructuring and integration Fluarix/FluLaval sales were up 18% AER,
benefits. This was partly offset by 12% CER to £488 million, reflecting strong
increased SG&A (selling, general and sales execution, primarily in the US, and
administration) resources to support higher demand in Europe.
business growth and new launches,
Shingles
increased supply chain costs and
Shingrix recorded initial sales to
lower royalty income.
distributors of £22 million in the US
Meningitis after its FDA approval and favourable
Meningitis sales grew 34% AER, 27% CER ACIP recommendations.
to £890 million. Bexsero sales growth of
43% AER, 34% CER was driven by new
national immunisation programmes, private
market sales and regional tenders in
Europe, as well as growing demand in
the US, together with strong private
market sales in International.
Global demand Over 22 million doses of our
meningitis B vaccine Bexsero have
for Bexsero
been distributed since its 2015 launch.
Bexsero was developed using reverse
Image Meningococcal vaccinology, which decodes the
serogroup B bacteria, genome sequence of meningitis B
commonly known as and selects the most effective protein
meningitis B candidates for use in the vaccine.
Bexsero is part of national
immunisation programmes in the
UK, Andorra, Ireland and Italy. In the
US, Bexsero current market share
represents approximately 70% in
the adolescent market.35
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Established Vaccines Driving performance for profitable,
Strategy in action Established Vaccines growth was driven sustainable growth
by hepatitis vaccines, mainly due to a
competitor supply shortage in the US and During the year, we decided to discontinue
“We are focused on
higher demand for Boostrix and Rotarix. a number of our commercially available
maintaining our The launch of Cervarix in China, the first vaccines within our Established Vaccines
cervical cancer vaccine to be approved and portfolio that are low in volume and where
leadership position
launched in the country, also contributed medical needs are met with other vaccines.
in meningitis vaccines towards growth as did favourable year-on-
year CDC stockpile movements for Infanrix Creating a simpler, competitive
and executing our and Pediarix in the US. This growth was supply chain
partly offset by increasing competitive Our global Vaccines network includes 16
Shingrix launch
pressures on Infanrix and Pediarix in the vaccine manufacturing sites in 11 countries.
flawlessly.” US and Europe, and lower Synflorix sales, This international presence enables us to
driven by lower pricing in developing manufacture our vaccines with greater
countries. capacity, efficiency and flexibility. We aim
to keep critical production steps in-house
wherever possible.
2020 outlook
We continue to focus on removing
Over the five years to 2020 we expect complexity in our supply chain. Since 2015
a mid to high single-digit CAGR for sales we have reduced the number of different
(at 2015 exchange rates). A strong launch packs we have by 40%, increased our
of Shingrix is a key priority and we believe manufacturing flexibility, and simplified
the vaccine could be one of our biggest and standardised our product offerings
Luc Debruyne growth drivers over the 2015 to 2020 to support our commercial strategy.
President, Global Vaccines period. We are still targeting an operating
profit margin of at least 30% (at 2015 Process and analytical robustness
exchange rates) in 2020. During 2017, process improvements
and analytical robustness enabled us
to produce more of our Bexsero vaccine
more efficiently. This was due to a new
pyrogen test, approved in several countries,
which improved assay robustness and
eliminated about 10% of failures. We
have also demonstrated the feasibility
of increasing the yields and reducing
failure rates of two of the four antigen
manufacturing processes. The Synflorix
process robustness programme
(completed in 2016) continued to
deliver good results in 2017, enabling
us to manufacture product without any
major losses.
Transaction savings
Excellent execution and acceleration
of the Integration Implementation Plan
across R&D, manufacturing, global
support functions, commercial network
and procurement helped our Vaccines
business to deliver its £400 million
Novartis integration savings target.
Footnote
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS,
measures to report performance, as
described on page 58.36
GSK Annual Report 2017
Oral health
Novamin, a key technology in Sensodyne
Repair and Protect37
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Consumer Healthcare
Our Consumer Healthcare business develops and
markets consumer-preferred and expert-recommended
brands in oral health, pain relief, respiratory, nutrition/
gastro-intestinal and skin health.
Consumer Healthcare sales were up Consumer Healthcare turnover £m
8% AER, 2% CER. A strong performance
Wellness 4,001
by power brands across Wellness and
Oral health 2,466
Oral health was partly offset by competitive
Nutrition 680
pressures in the US allergy category.
Skin health 603 Darren, Principal Scientist,
Sales from new GSK innovations (product Total 7,750 Oral Health R&D, UK
introductions within the last three years on Our NovaMin technology in Sensodyne Repair
a rolling basis) represented approximately & Protect seeks out and forms a protective layer
13% of sales in the period. Some notable Footnote over sensitive areas of the teeth, helping to relieve
the pain of sensitive teeth.
launches in 2017 were several line We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS,
extensions for Sensodyne, including measures to report performance, as
described on page 58.
next generation Sensodyne Rapid Relief
and Sensodyne Deep Clean as well
as Voltaren No Mess and parodontax.
We launched Flonase Sensimist in the
US and continued the global roll-out of
Flonase OTC (over-the-counter).
Van, sensitive teeth sufferer
What’s next
Innovation in
Consumer Healthcare
See pages 38–39
Performance in
Consumer Healthcare
See pages 40–41
We report on our Trust priority
across all three businesses
See pages 42–5138
GSK Annual Report 2017
Consumer Healthcare
Innovation Our priorities are to execute brilliant product launches and
to build a strong, differentiated pipeline of consumer-led,
science-based innovations and claims.
In 2017, we continued to demonstrate our We also introduced Sensodyne Deep
ability to innovate within the consumer Clean toothpaste in a number of markets,
healthcare market, harnessing GSK’s which provides a deep clean for sensitive
scientific and technical expertise alongside teeth using small particle silica and delivers
deep consumer insights. The proportion long-lasting freshness through novel
of sales from innovations launched within coolant technology.
the last three years was approximately 13%,
A further key innovation launched in 2017
which included several key 2017 launches.
was Voltaren No Mess, which has a cap
that makes the product easier and less
Delivering best-in-class innovation
messy to apply, addressing one of the
key consumer barriers to using a topical
New Sensodyne Rapid Relief, the latest
pain-reliever. The unique and innovative
premium extension of our £1 billion
packaging was assessed extensively
Sensodyne brand, was launched
in our new consumer sensory testing
successfully in more than 40 markets
laboratories. Roll-out continues in 2018.
in 2017. Developed in our UK-based
Oral health Innovation Hub, it has been We launched our parodontax brand –
designed to provide fast relief from tooth clinically proven to help prevent bleeding
sensitivity and is supported by clinical gums and gingivitis – for the first time
studies. The active ingredient, stannous in the US.
fluoride, seals the layer beneath the surface
of the tooth enamel known as dentine,
aided by a special polymer, which clinical
data shows can result in relief from the pain
of sensitivity within as little as 60 seconds.
Consumer insight-driven innovation
New ENO Cooling antacid creates
an instant cooling sensation when
taken. Our scientists developed the
formulation to create this cooling effect
after research at our consumer sensory
labs showed consumers believe that
feeling cool internally helps soothe
heartburn. ENO Cooling, which we
have just launched in India, is one
of many consumer-led innovations that
have been created following research
at our three consumer sensory facilities
in India, the UK and the US.39
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
We continued to see success in our Emerging market opportunities
Strategy in action switch programme with Flonase Sensimist
successfully changing from a prescription- Emerging markets continue to be a key
only medicine to an over-the-counter opportunity area for growth in Consumer
“ We deliver differentiated
product in the US, enhancing our offering Healthcare. We have increased our
products to consumers in the allergy market. We have also emerging market R&D investment and
continued the global roll-out of Flonase, focus, in particular in our China and
by combining consumer
launching in several markets in 2017, India-based innovation hubs, where we
insights with scientific including Canada, Spain and the Czech continue to identify local consumer and
Republic. In switching Flonase from retailer insights to underpin our product
and technical excellence.” prescription-only to over-the-counter, we development and marketing, ensuring that
recognised the growing consumer demand we remain locally relevant and competitive.
for greater personal control over healthcare. In India, for example, we discovered that
nearly half of all indigestion treatments
Building industry-leading use home remedies. Using this insight,
capabilities we developed and launched a new variant
of our ENO antacid, using the popular
We continued to invest in understanding ajwain herb. This contributed to strong
and meeting consumers’ and retail brand growth in 2017.
customers’ needs by expanding our
international network of consumer sensory External innovation
Richard Slater and shopper science laboratories, with
Head of R&D, new labs opening in the UK and Singapore We continue to look beyond GSK for
GSK Consumer Healthcare in 2017. These state-of-the-art facilities additional innovation opportunities, and
differentiate GSK, with retailer feedback in 2017 saw a significant increase in the
showing that our scientific approach to proportion of our pipeline coming from
shopper insight and customer collaboration outside the company. We identified over
puts us ahead of our competitors. 1,000 possible partnerships, formally
reviewed more than 150 proposals and
Our integrated global innovation hubs,
entered into more than 40 partnerships.
co-locating both R&D and commercial
This increased external focus, along with
experts, continue to ensure that our
our strong internal science capabilities,
innovation is both science-based and
ensures that we are able to develop and
consumer-led. The breadth of this
deliver a strong, competitive pipeline of
network also keeps us in step with
consumer-led, science-based innovation.
local and regional trends.
Weather app
A Theraflu-sponsored weather app
boosts sales
kept US consumers informed of local
cold and flu levels – and boosted
sales. The GSK brand teamed up with
The Weather Channel to create the
Theraflu cold and flu tracker, as part
of the launch campaign for Theraflu
ExpressMax caplets. Reflecting social
media conversations, the app gave
likely cold and flu levels in users’ areas,
while advising them to treat symptoms
with Theraflu. Almost 50 million unique
visitors were exposed to Theraflu
messaging via the tracker and the
brand’s sponsorship of The Weather
Channel. This sparked a significant
rise in sales among app users during
the peak flu season.40
GSK Annual Report 2017
Consumer Healthcare continued
Performance Strong performance by our power brands across
Wellness and Oral health helped drive growth.
2017 performance summary On a category basis, sales in Wellness
grew 7% AER, 2% CER to £4,001 million,
Consumer Healthcare sales grew reflecting a strong performance from
8% AER, 2% CER to £7,750 million. Voltaren and cold and flu seasonal
A strong performance by power brands products, partly offsetting a weaker
across Wellness and Oral health was performance from US allergy products.
partly offset by competitive pressures in Oral health sales grew 11% AER, 6% CER
the US allergy category, impacting Flonase to £2,466 million, with Sensodyne sales
OTC as well as lower sales of tail brands continuing to drive performance. Nutrition
across the Nutrition and Skin health sales grew 1% AER and declined 5% CER
categories. In addition, reported growth to £680 million, adversely impacted by
was impacted by the disposal of the Nigeria the sale of the Nigeria beverages business
beverages business in Q3 2016 and the and the implementation of GST, as well
implementation of the Goods & Service as continued competitive pressures from
Tax (GST) in India in July, the net effects Horlicks in India. Skin health sales grew 6%
of which were partly offset by the benefit AER, but were flat at CER at £603 million.
of the comparison with the impact of
Consumer Healthcare operating margin
demonetisation in India in Q4 2016.
was 17.7%, up 2.2 percentage points AER
The divestment, GST and demonetisation
and 1.3 percentage points higher on a
combined to reduce overall Consumer
CER basis, reflecting tight control of costs,
Healthcare CER growth by approximately
integration synergies principally in SG&A,
one percentage point.
partly offset by increased investment in
Sales from new GSK innovations (product power brands.
introductions within the last three years on
a rolling basis) represented approximately 2020 outlook
13% of sales in the period. Some notable
launches in 2017 were several line Over the five years to 2020 we expect
extensions for Sensodyne, including a low to mid single-digit CAGR for sales
next generation Sensodyne Rapid Relief (at 2015 exchange rates) and we expect
and Sensodyne Deep Clean, as well an operating margin of 20+% in 2020
as Voltaren No Mess and parodontax. (at 2015 exchange rates).
We also launched Flonase Sensimist
in the US and continued the global
roll-out of Flonase OTC.
Footnote
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS,
measures to report performance, as
described on page 58.41
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Driving performance for profitable Industry partnerships
Strategy in action sustainable growth
Collaboration is core to all aspects of our
In 2017, we took significant steps to innovation. In 2017, we signed a partnership
“As the consumer
strengthen our performance now and in with Google, to bring our digital advertising
healthcare market the longer term, by increasing our focus data platform in-house, enabling us to
on our best performing brands and priority better target relevant content to consumers
evolves, we are investing
markets. and drive efficiency in our marketing
in digital capabilities and campaigns. We formed another partnership
Power brands in 2017 with Alimama, the marketing and
forming ground-breaking Our strategy of focusing our resources on media arm of Chinese technology group
seven power brands and 12 regional core Alibaba. This partnership helps us identify
partnerships to continue
brands continued to deliver. Our power more potential consumers and gain deeper
to meet changing brands – including Sensodyne, Voltaren, understanding of their online shopping
Panadol and Theraflu – significantly behaviour so we can reach them with the
consumer needs.”
outperformed the market, with high single right advertising at the appropriate time.
digit growth. Sensodyne continued to drive
We continued to prioritise building
performance, reporting growth of 12%
relationships with healthcare professionals
AER, 8% CER, with strong market-beating
(HCPs), whose recommendations can be
delivery in all regions following the roll-out
key in introducing new consumers to our
of next generation Sensodyne Rapid
brands. Seventy per cent of consumer
Relief and the launch of Pronamel Strong
trial of Sensodyne in the US, for example,
& Bright.
is driven by dentist recommendation.
Pain relief sales were up 10% AER, 4% In 2017, we deployed a new customer
CER, driven significantly by Voltaren which relationship management platform across
saw growth across the regions, benefiting 80 markets to our HCP field forces.
Brian McNamara
CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare from momentum in the 12-hour variant, This system upgrade enables us to have
strong in-store and marketing activation, a more engaging and relevant science-
expansion of expert detailing and strong based dialogue with HCPs.
performances in International markets.
To concentrate on our best performers, we Creating a simpler, competitive
announced the divestment of some smaller supply chain
nutrition brands, including MaxiNutrition in
the UK. We have continued to improve our
consumer health supply chain, across
Digital transformation quality, safety, service and cost. We have
simplified our network and announced
We invested strongly in our digital plans to exit three sites. Since 2015, we
transformation programme. This is intended have streamlined the number of contract
to both boost sales – through data-driven manufacturers (CMOs) we use by 24%
marketing, new e-commerce sales channels to reduce complexity in our supply chain.
and digitally powered innovations – and Our supply chain has successfully
unlock efficiency savings by, for example, supported strong growth of our
optimising how we generate and deploy higher-margin power brands through
digital content and extracting more value improvements across productivity,
from our media mix. procurement and systems, ensuring
robust and reliable supply.
To drive our digital transformation,
in 2017 we appointed our first Consumer
Healthcare Chief Digital Officer and
established a Digital Advisory Board
of external digital marketing, data and
e-commerce experts. We also revised
our core training programmes to build
digital and e-commerce capabilities
across our sales, marketing and general
management teams.4422
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177
Trust
Maximising our social impact,
ensuring the reliable supply of our
high-quality products to as many
people as possible, and having
highly engaged employees.43
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Earning Here we detail the progress we have made on: addressing
Trust global health needs through our science, creating
sustainable access to our high-quality products, and being
a responsible business with modern employer practices.
Creating long-term value Later this year, we will launch a set of
for all our stakeholders long-term commitments describing the
Investors, patients and consumers, actions we will be taking to demonstrate
employees and communities rightly expect our continuing commitment to deliver
companies to consider their social, as societal value. With these, we will seek to
well as financial, impact as they seek to establish clear, ambitious targets to drive
create value over the long term. By investing impact and progress in three areas:
in a balanced set of long-term priorities
– Addressing global health needs through
– Innovation, Performance and Trust –
our science
across each of our three businesses,
we will deliver both financial returns and – Creating sustainable access to our
a broader contribution to society. high-quality products
– Being a responsible business with
Focusing where we can have impact
modern employer practices
We have a long history in tackling some
We will also continue to seek transparent
of the world’s biggest health challenges.
and trusted engagement with scientific
The biggest impact we can have is to use
and medical communities, address our
our scientific and technical know-how
environmental impact, and maintain the
to address global health needs – like HIV
ethical standards to which we conduct
and malaria – and support sustainable
our business.
access to our high-quality products.
We must also be a responsible business, This section reports progress in these
with modern employer practices, to support areas during 2017. More detail is available
our talented people to give their very best. in our Responsible Business Supplement
available at www.gsk.com/responsibility.
All three of our businesses contribute towards our Trust priority.
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
In 2017, our HIV drug, dolutegravir, was Our Vaccines business has developed In early 2018, our Consumer Healthcare
made available in Brazil as a first line the only malaria vaccine candidate to have business is launching a five-year
treatment for people living with HIV who received a positive scientific opinion from partnership with Smile Train, to provide
have never received treatment via the the European Medicines Agency and a funding, support and expertise to help
national health programme. It is also now recommendation for pilot implementation more children living with cleft lip or palate
available as first line treatment in by the World Health Organization (WHO). to lead a full and productive life.
Botswana.44
GSK Annual Report 2017
Trust continued
Addressing We are using our science and technology to tackle
global health some of the biggest global health challenges while
delivering leading scientific and medical engagement.
through science
We aim to use our science, and work Our open lab in Tres Cantos, Spain
collaboratively and transparently with supported seven new projects run by
partners and the scientific community, external scientists in 2017 (64 since
to develop new medicines, vaccines and it opened in 2010). During the year,
consumer healthcare products where the Tres Cantos facility supported the
there is the greatest need. phase I clinical trials of a new candidate
drug for TB, with phase II studies expected
Global health impact to begin in 2018. We also began late stage
pre-clinical studies for a molecule with
The biggest contribution we can make the potential to shorten TB treatment,
to improve health globally is to focus on with funding from the Bill & Melinda
diseases impacting people around the Gates Foundation.
world where we have specific scientific
In 2017, we received FDA approval
and technological expertise: respiratory,
for Juluca (see page 25), an important
HIV, oncology, immuno-inflammation and
milestone in HIV care. It provides a
vaccines. We also have an important role
new treatment option and could make a
to play in tackling some of the biggest
significant difference to people living with
global health challenges, including malaria
HIV as they receive life-long treatment for
(see case study), tuberculosis (TB) and
their chronic condition. Also in 2017, our
neglected tropical diseases (NTDs),
HIV drug, dolutegravir, was made available
where there is no commercial market.
in Brazil and Botswana, and has been
In 2017, we created a Global Health Unit added to the Essential Medicines List
to drive an integrated approach across in Russia.
the business to innovate and deliver
As part of our commitment to eliminate
medicines and vaccines that tackle the
and control NTDs, GSK has donated nearly
biggest global health challenges, such
eight billion albendazole tablets since 1999
as malaria and NTDs.
to reach more than 850 million people with
lymphatic filariasis (LF) or intestinal worms.
In April 2017, Togo became the first African
country to eliminate LF as a public health
problem, with seven other countries doing
so later that year.
Helping to
Our Pharmaceuticals business is in the Following successful phase III trials
beat malaria late stage development of tafenoquine, a in 2016, we are supporting plans for
single-dose treatment for P.vivax malaria, pilot malaria vaccine implementation
which is common in South Asia, the Horn programmes in sub-Saharan Africa.
of Africa and Latin America. If approved, We are proud to be working together
it will be the first new treatment for with the WHO, PATH, the ministries
P. vivax malaria in more than 60 years. of health in Kenya, Ghana and Malawi,
and other stakeholders to ensure
Our Vaccines business has developed
successful implementation of the pilot
the only malaria vaccine candidate to
programmes. In parallel, GSK is
have received a positive scientific opinion
preparing for the implementation of the
from the EMA and a recommendation for
phase IV programme and is starting
pilot implementation by the WHO.
manufacturing activities. GSK will donate
the first 10 million doses of the RTS,S
vaccine to support pilot programmes in
sub-Saharan Africa.45
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Preparing for future health threats We also share anonymised patient-level
We are committed to preparing for data for our interventional phase I-IV clinical
Strategy in action
global health threats and emergencies. trials within six months of publication. By late
We maintain reserve capacity to respond 2017, we had listed more than 2,100 trials
“We have created a
to a future influenza pandemic, and are on the www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com
Global Health Unit to collaborating on the development of a platform for use by external researchers.
universal influenza vaccine candidate. Since we started this initiative in 2013,
drive innovation and
108 research proposals requesting GSK
Fighting antibiotic resistance
delivery of medicines data have been approved.
The declining effectiveness of antibiotics,
and vaccines to tackle due to their extensive use and misuse, Sales and marketing practices
is becoming a major public health crisis. In 2013, we introduced a policy to stop
global health challenges,
paying HCPs to speak to other prescribers
It is important that we work with the
such as malaria.” pharmaceutical industry and governments about our prescription medicines and
vaccines. We believe our policy has
to find creative ways to incentivise and
improved transparency and trust, but
reward new research and development
feedback from scientific experts is that
in antibiotics and support ways to reduce
important scientific dialogue between
resistance.
GSK and them has reduced. This was
In early 2018, we were ranked number not the intent of the policy. Transparent
one out of the large pharmaceutical scientific dialogue and engagement with
companies in the Access to Medicine experts is in the interests of all those
Foundation’s first Anti-Microbial Resistance working to develop new medicines and
(AMR) Benchmark, which assessed 30 improve care for patients.
pharmaceuticals, generics and biotech
Phil Thomson To address this feedback, and having
company responses to AMR.
President, Global Affairs consulted with HCPs, we have decided
In our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, gepotidacin to change our policy. We now allow fair
is the first in a new class of antibiotics and market value payments to be made by
is expected to progress to phase III clinical GSK to expert researchers and HCPs
research. Our vaccines also play a critical to speak about the science behind our
role in avoiding the need for antibiotics products, disease and clinical practice
by preventing bacterial, viral and other in a limited number of GSK sponsored,
infections. medical-led meetings.
To promote responsible antibiotics use, We believe this change is in the best
in 2017 we trained over 21,000 healthcare interest of patients as it helps effective,
professionals (HCPs) in areas such as transparent scientific dialogue by allowing
appropriate antibiotics use and prescribing HCPs to share new science with each
guidelines. other. Our primary focus remains on
internal medical experts speaking about
Leading scientific and our products and we will not pay HCPs
medical engagement to talk about our products outside of an
approved, medical-led scientific workshop
We believe it is important to have trusted or symposium.
and transparent engagement with the
We have continued to strengthen our
scientific and medical communities.
online resources and in-house medical
Transparency in clinical trial data capabilities to provide bespoke product
GSK is one of the few companies that information for HCPs. By using all of our
publishes clinical study reports, whether existing channels, we increased our overall
positive or negative. By the end of 2017, interactions with customers by 15% in 2017
2,310 of these reports were publicly with digital interactions growing by 50%.
available on our clinical study register in GSK has eliminated the use of individual
addition to 6,305 result summaries from sales targets for our pharmaceutical
our trials. Reflecting our long-standing and vaccines sales representatives.
commitment to clinical trial transparency, This change was implemented in the
during the year we ranked number one US in 2011, and expanded to all our
on the AllTrials Transparency Index. markets globally in 2015. Today, our sales
representatives are incentivised based
on their selling competency and broader
business performance.46
GSK Annual Report 2017
Trust continued
Sustainable We are expanding access to our high-quality medicines,
access to our vaccines and consumer healthcare products so that
more people can benefit from their use.
high-quality
products
We are committed to widening access In 2017, the World Intellectual Property
to our high-quality products. We do so Organization (WIPO) and the International
through embedding our equitable pricing Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers
strategy, using innovative business models, and Associations (IFPMA) launched a
and ensuring that our products adhere new partnership called Pat-INFORMED
to high quality and safety standards. to facilitate access to medicine patent
information. GSK played an instrumental
Pricing role in the development of this partnership
which was catalysed by our 2016
Our equitable pricing strategy for medicines commitment to make information about
and vaccines is based on the country, our patent portfolio freely available.
disease area, product type and patients’
We also understand payer and patient
ability to pay. Since 2010, we have capped
concerns about affordability in developed
the prices of our patented medicines in
markets. The prices of our new medicines
least developed countries at 25% of
and vaccines reflect our goal to work in
those in Western Europe, as long as
the best interests of both patients and
manufacturing costs are covered.
shareholders and to balance reward for
More than 70% of our vaccine doses go innovation with access and affordability.
to least developed, low and middle-income
In the US, we negotiate with payers to gain
countries. Our lowest vaccine prices are
favourable placement on formularies (lists
offered to organisations such as Gavi,
of products covered by health insurers
the Vaccine Alliance, which supports
and pharmacy benefit managers). Patients
poorer countries. We are the only
generally have lower out-of-pocket costs
company committed to a ten-year price
for medicines that have preferred treatment
freeze to support countries transitioning
under a formulary. The GSK Patient
from Gavi financing.
Assistance Programme provided our
prescribed medicines and vaccines
to 126,419 patients in 2017.
Reducing child mortality
In 2013, we launched a five-year
partnership with Save the Children
with the aim of saving the lives of one
million children in the poorest
countries. As we approach the end
of the five years, we have reached
more than 2.7 million children in 41
countries with life-saving interventions.
Through the partnership, we have also
created and distributed a potentially
life-saving medicine, chlorhexidine
gel, that has benefited over 19,000
newborns. The next phase of the GSK
and Save the Children partnership,
which will continue to address child
mortality, will launch in 2018.
Image: Ilan Godfrey/
Save the Children47
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
In Europe, we engage with governments We track risks to quality and safety
and payers to balance access and standards through our global risk register.
Strategy in action
affordability while working towards In 2017, we performed 273 audits on our
sustainable health systems that support own trials and those conducted for us by
“Reliable supply is a daily
ongoing innovation. third parties. We enhanced our policy on
priority across all three management of human safety information
Partnerships to support access for GSK products and trained all relevant
of our businesses.”
staff to safeguard the people who take
We invest in communities around the our products or are involved in our
world through product and cash donations. clinical research.
In 2017, our charitable giving totalled
Reliability of supply
£262 million.
We make reliable supply a daily priority
Since 2009, we have reinvested 20% of across all three of our businesses.
our profits from sales of pharmaceuticals
Significant improvements were achieved
and consumer healthcare products in
in our Pharmaceutical supply performance
least developed countries (LDCs) –
in 2017. These were instrumental in
£33 million in total – into strengthening
enabling growth in key therapy areas, as
local healthcare infrastructure. Our
Roger Connor partnerships with Amref Health Africa, well as ensuring that the launch of new
President Global Manufacturing CARE International and Save the Children products went to plan. Improvements are
and Supply the result of essential capability-building
have helped train over 60,000 frontline
and infrastructure investments made in our
health workers, helping us to exceed
supply chain to improve safety and quality,
our goal of reaching 20 million people by
as well as a consistent focus on meeting
2020. Our new programmes in Botswana,
patient and business needs through
Cameroon and Namibia are training
performance management.
frontline health workers beyond
the LDCs. Our supply performance in Vaccines
continued to improve in 2017. We grew
Cleft surgery can cost from as little as
manufacturing output by 7% which
$250, but if left untreated, children will
underpinned our strong financial
struggle to eat, breathe and speak properly,
performance. We maintained our focus
leaving them isolated from communities and
on safety and delivering all of our vaccines
with ongoing health issues. In early 2018,
to our high quality standards; we also
our Consumer Healthcare business is
continued to invest in capacity, updating
launching a five-year partnership with
older facilities and building new capacity
Smile Train, to provide funding, support
to support our long-term growth ambition.
and expertise to help more children living
with cleft lip or palate lead a full and Across the Consumer Healthcare supply
productive life. chain, we have implemented new ways
of working, including core business
Our commitment to quality planning processes to improve our service
and safety levels. These have increased steadily and
significantly through 2017 and benchmark
Our charitable giving in 2017 totalled
We follow a strict Quality Management well with FMCG competitors. All of our
£261.6 million (2016 – £210.2 million)
System and comply with regulations on 2017 Consumer Healthcare product
Good Manufacturing Practice. In 2017, launches have been supplied on time
194 regulatory inspections were held at our and we continue to strive for higher targets
manufacturing sites and, while the majority for product supply, while maintaining our
resulted in zero or only minor observations, quality and safety standards.
we are committed to addressing issues
raised in all inspections as part of our
continuous improvement programme.
Regulatory authorities have accepted our
proposed plans for corrective actions.
Product & in-kind £165m
Cash £80m
Management £13m
Time (PULSE) £3m48
GSK Annual Report 2017
Trust continued
Modern To attract and retain the best talent, we are committed
employer to being a modern employer and to driving high levels
of employee engagement.
Our staff are more engaged when they Talent and development
are part of the conversation, so we have
put a strong focus on holding open and In 2017, we made a number of key
inclusive conversations with each other, and appointments to our Corporate Executive
encouraging our leaders and employees Team, identified significant GSK roles, and
to share the ownership and delivery of our supported the development of top talent.
strategy. We are also focused on creating This included changing approximately
a safe and inclusive workplace where 40% of our top 125 manager roles
everyone at GSK can feel able and inspired through promoting existing talent and
to realise their potential. hiring externally to bring fresh ideas and
skills to leadership roles.
Engagement
We have also launched a new employee
performance system. Individual objectives
Senior leaders across GSK are playing a
are now linked to our priorities on
pivotal role in engaging our people behind
Innovation, Performance and Trust, and
our strategy, through initiatives such as our
a new GSK-wide bonus system will reflect
new Let’s Talk programme (see case study).
progress against the priorities and our
In October 2017, 600 of our most senior overall business performance. This will
leaders attended a three-day conference encourage more regular, consistent
to deepen their understanding of our performance and development
strategy and priorities and to develop conversations.
effective tools to inspire their teams.
In 2017, we trained around 3,300 people
to support their promotion to first or second
Delivering performance through
line leadership; in addition, more than 1,600
cultural change GSK leaders shared their knowledge and
helped to improve colleagues’ performance
Our strong values and purpose are through our coaching programmes.
fundamental to the way we operate. Central
During the year, 434 graduates and
to the development of our high-performance,
postgraduates joined our Future Leaders
values-based culture will be the alignment of
and Esprit development programmes.
our people behind our long-term business
GSK ranked third in The Guardian 300
priorities. As part of our approach to
UK Graduate Employers and made the
evolving GSK’s culture, we have retained
top ten in The Times Top 100 Graduate
and reinforced our values while introducing
Employers 2017.
four new expectations that guide the
behaviour of our employees: Courage,
Accountability, Development and Teamwork.
Engaging
Our strategic success relies on our Survey questions aligned with our
employees in ability to engage employees behind new priorities and the results are being
our strategy GSK’s long-term priorities. discussed by leaders and employees
to identify priority focus areas. From 2018,
In 2017, more than 84,000 (83%) of
we plan to conduct the survey twice a year.
our people took part in GSK’s global
employee survey – our best ever response Our new Let’s Talk programme
rate. Our employee engagement score encourages employees to discuss key
was 79%, and we will be setting this as issues and share views and ideas on
a baseline year for improvement. 76% strengthening GSK. Leaders across the
of employees recommend GSK as a business have hosted conversations with
great place to work – up 12% since the their teams on a range of topics. Feedback
previous survey – and 85% are proud and insights are collated and shared with
to work for us. all employees and senior leaders to help
shape our future organisation.49
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
A diverse and inclusive workplace In early 2018, we were ranked 21st in the
UK Stonewall Workplace Equality Index
Strategy in action
In 2017, the Hampton Alexander Review of the top 100 most LGBT+ and inclusive
of FTSE 100 companies found GSK has employers in the UK for 2017.
“For GSK, family-friendly
the eighth-highest proportion of women
We are committed to removing barriers,
policies are a key success on the Board at 41.7%, and is in line with
increasing understanding and ensuring
the FTSE 100 average with 25.7% female
factor to drive employee that those with disabilities have the same
representation among executive committee
opportunities. Our Disability Confidence
engagement.” members and their direct reports. We are Network employee resource group now has
continuing to focus on improving this
more than 250 employee members across
number over the coming years. Overall,
22 countries who support our Global
the proportion of women in management
Disability Council in driving change and
roles at GSK is 44%.
promoting disability confidence.
Women made up half of our new graduates
and Esprit participants, and 38% of our Health and wellbeing
new apprentices in science, technology
and engineering roles, where women have We are committed to providing health
traditionally been under-represented. programmes and services to help our
people lead healthy lives. In 2017, we made
We published data on our gender pay
more than 75% of these programmes and
Claire Thomas gap in the UK for the first time, following
services available in our top 24 countries,
Senior Vice President, new legislation. Our gender pay gap for all
Human Resources permanent UK-based GSK employees is covering 85% of employees globally.
2.81% (mean), outperforming the national Our Partnership for Prevention programme
average of 17.4%. We will continue to offers over 119,000 employees and family
review pay equity at a global level members access to up to 40 preventive
during 2018. healthcare services, such as immunisations
and cancer screening, at little or no extra
Through our Accelerating Difference
cost. We expanded the programme into the
programme, we provided coaching and
Asia Pacific region in 2017 and prepared
support for 209 high-performing female
to extend it in Europe.
managers. Around 49% of those who
began the programme in 2014 have been Our reportable injury and illness rate in
promoted (compared with 31% of women 2017 was 0.23 per 100,000 hours worked,
across GSK during the same period). compared with 0.26 in 2016. This rate is
Women in management (%)
comparable with other leading companies
2014 2015 2016 2017 In the US, our diverse reverse mentoring
in our sector1 and has remained low for
provides leaders with the opportunity to
SVP/VP 29 29 30 31
several years.
learn from a more junior employee of a
Director 40 40 42 43
different background to help our leaders
Manager 45 45 46 47 Flexible and life-friendly practices
develop their inclusive leadership skills.
Total 42 42 43 44
In 2017, we had 105 mentoring pairs in
For GSK, family-friendly policies are
Employees by gender (number) place (up from 20 in 2016).
a key success factor to drive employee
Male Female Total Seven nationalities are represented on engagement. In 2017, in the US we
Board 8 5 13 our Board and executive committee. increased maternity leave for mothers to
Management* 9,784 7,825 17,609 Seventy-eight nationalities make up our up to 16 weeks, and introduced 8 weeks of
Total 55,139 43,323 98,462 Future Leaders graduate programme and paid parental leave for all parents, adoptive
more than 60 people have completed our parents and partners to bond with their
* Management: senior managers as defined in the
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Emerging Leaders programme in Singapore new baby. We also raised our commitment
Report) Regulations 2013 which includes persons to develop our Asia leadership pipeline. to family-friendly policies across our top
responsible for planning, directing or controlling the
activities of the company, or a strategically significant part Our global LGBT+ Council continued 20 markets. For example, in Pakistan we
of the company, other than the Board, including directors to engage people across GSK on LGBT+ revised our maternity policy for eligible
or undertakings included in the consolidated accounts. issues. It is supported by our LGBT+ employees to increase fully paid maternity
employee resource group, Spectrum, leave from 84 to 120 days.
which now has over 900 employee We are also seeking to improve work/life
members across 29 countries around balance through a range of flexibility models
the world. across our markets. In the UK, we offer a
tax-free holiday programme, which enables
employees to sacrifice part of their salary in
exchange for up to ten days of extra holiday.
In 2017, this programme had a 30% usage
rate among eligible employees.
1 Based on benchmarking data from the Pharmaceutical
Safety Group.50
GSK Annual Report 2017
Trust continued
Ethical We aim to run our business ethically and
conduct and in an environmentally sustainable way.
environmental
sustainability
Ethical conduct Working with third parties
We expect all our suppliers and third
We strive to build a values-based culture parties to comply with our standards on
by training our people on the standards ethics, labour rights, health and safety,
we expect, encouraging the reporting and the environment. By the end of 2017,
of any concerns and acting swiftly and we had deployed the roll-out of our Third
transparently when issues occur. Party Oversight programme to 95% of
our third parties. We expect the remainder
Living our Values
to be completed by early 2018. Over
We provide mandatory annual training on
100,000 risk assessments of third parties
our values and Code of Conduct to help
have been conducted and over 5,000
employees and complementary workers
improvements plans agreed since the
manage ethical dilemmas and put our
programme began in 2015. Based on
values into practice at work.
our initial risk assessment, over 4,200
The Living our Values training emphasises third parties underwent extensive
our zero tolerance to bribery and corruption, independent assessments.
highlights our commitment on issues such
The standardised programme enables
as product quality and data protection,
us to identify and manage third party risks
and explains key risks. In 2017, 98% of
more effectively, and is being embedded
employees and 91% of complementary
into the processes we use to engage
workers completed the training. More
with suppliers.
than 86,300 people had additional training
on anti-bribery and corruption to help them We conducted 60 third party audits
manage the specific risks inherent in their on health and safety, ethics, environment
roles and responsibilities. and labour rights, with a further 1,592
audits on quality processes.
We assess how well our values are
embedded and have conducted around Where we identify unsatisfactory areas,
260 values maturity assessments over we engage with third parties to develop
the past two years. improvement plans and track progress.
If significant issues remain unresolved,
Employees disciplined in 2017: Reporting and investigating concerns we may suspend or terminate work with
breakdown of types of policy violation A 2017 Speak Up campaign raised a third party.
awareness of the multiple channels we
offer for people within and outside GSK Human rights
18% to voice concerns and ask questions We are a signatory to the UN Global
29%
through an independent third party – Compact and we are committed to
4% confidentially or anonymously if preferred. upholding the Universal Declaration
6% During the year, we received 2,679 reports of Human Rights and the core labour
(2,568 in 2016), with all being reviewed standards set out by the International
12%
18% and 1,919 formal investigations initiated. Labour Organization (ILO). In 2017,
13% we expanded the information on our
We act when employees fail to adhere
human rights expectations in our Living our
to our policies. In 2017, 3,200 employees
Training completion Marketing and Values training, particularly around labour
Code of conduct promotional activities were disciplined for policy violations rights in our supply chain. We also held a
Attendance and Local work (3,600 in 2016), including 935 for failing workshop with senior managers to build
payroll r ve iog lau tla ioti no sns to complete our mandatory Living our understanding of labour rights risks and to
G ano do dd i sm tra ibn uu tf ia oc nt uring Other policy V tra al iu ne ins g a on nd tA imn eti .- b Sr oib me ery 1 a ,8n 0d 1 C eo mrr pu lp ot yi eo en s identify further team training requirements.
practices violations received a documented warning (2,499 We continued to monitor existing suppliers
in 2016), 901 received verbal warnings and screen new suppliers, included
(547 in 2016) and 233 were dismissed or standardised labour rights clauses in third
agreed to leave voluntarily (221 in 2016). party contracts, and updated our supplier
portal and human rights policy with
more information on labour rights to
support compliance.51
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Environmental sustainability We also have our own platform, GSK Water
Supplier Exchange, to encourage suppliers We continue to seek ways to use less water
We aim to minimise our environmental to share best practices on sustainability in our own operations, in our supply chain
impact at every stage of the value chain, and recognise outstanding performance and in the use of our products. We have
while extending access to our products through our annual Supplier Environmental reduced water use by 22% since 2010
to more people. Sustainability Awards. but water use increased by 1% in 2017,
driven by growth in our Vaccines business.
Carbon The use of our products also has a
Our overall carbon footprint is made up significant impact on our Scope 3 By the end of 2017, all of our
of Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our direct emissions. The majority is from patient Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare
operations (18%), and Scope 3 emissions use of a propellant-based inhaler Ventolin, manufacturing sites had completed water
from our supply chain (49%) and from use where the propellant is a greenhouse gas risk assessments in line with our water
of our products (33%). released during use. Reducing the impact stewardship standard. These sites are now
of the propellant is complex. We continue developing plans to address any risks that
In 2017, our operational emissions (Scope
to research feasible solutions to this have been identified which may include
1 and 2) were reduced by 2% compared
issue, including changing the way we working with local communities and other
with the previous year, as a result of our
manufacture, to reduce the amount of stakeholders. Our efforts to enhance water
continuing focus on energy efficiency
propellant used while maintaining efficacy stewardship will prioritise sites in areas of
measures and purchasing renewable
and safety for patients. water stress.
energy. Since our 2010 baseline, we have
reduced annual carbon emissions from GSK’s new generation of inhaler products, Waste
energy use by 25% saving a cumulative using our Ellipta device, were developed Since 2010, we have cut operational waste
1.9 million tonnes of COe. and launched as dry powder inhalers by 23%, producing 10% less hazardous
2 (DPIs) and do not release greenhouse waste and 29% less non-hazardous waste.
Our Scope 3 emissions fell from 18.7 to
gas emissions. In 2017, a certified However, progress towards our 2020
17.9 million tonnes of COe from 2015 to
2 assessment of our respiratory inhaler target has slowed and the amount of waste
2016;1 however, they were up 4% from our
portfolio by the Carbon Trust showed produced remained the same in 2017 as
2010 baseline year. This is a result of the
that the lifecycle carbon footprint of 2016. We have therefore increased our
Novartis integration in 2015 and increasing
our DPI is around 24 times lower than focus on reclaiming more waste through
sales of our propellant-based inhalers.
a propellant-based inhaler2 for one reuse, recycling and recovery.
We engage with suppliers to drive
month’s treatment.
improvement. For example we encourage Around 70% of our sites worldwide have
suppliers to monitor and disclose achieved zero waste to landfill and just 4%
performance through Ecodesk, an external of our 136,000 tonnes of operational waste
resource which offers benchmarking ended up in landfill – 25% less than in 2016.
information and helps them develop Most (71%) was recycled or incinerated to
improvement plans. recover energy.
Carbon emissions plus intensity ratios (as per regulations)
‘000 tonnes CO2ea 2014 2015b 2016 2017
Scope 1 emissions 851 885 889 865
Scope 2 emissions 745 730 700 694
Data available
Scope 3 emissions 16,093 18,690 17,897 May 2018
Intensity ratios 2014 2015 2016 2017
Scope 1 and 2 emissions/sales
revenue (tonnes CO2e/£m) 69.4 67.5 57.0 51.6
Scope 1 and 2/FTE
(tonnes CO2e/FTE) 16.3 16.0 16.0 15.8
a Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard (revised edition).
b Data included former Novartis sites’ emissions and headcount.
1 Our most recently available Scope 3 data is from 2016.
We will publish 2017 data online in late 2018.
2 For one month’s treatment, a 120 dose propellant inhaler
has a carbon footprint of 19kg CO2e per pack compared
with a 30 dose once-daily Ellipta DPI which has a carbon
footprint of 0.8kg CO2e per pack5522
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177
Group financial review continued
Group
financial
review
In this section
CFO’s statement 53
Approach to Brexit 55
Approach to tax 56
Viability statement 57
Reporting framework 58
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 59
Group turnover 60
Total results 65
Adjusted results 69
Cash generation and conversion 71
Financial position and resources 72
Critical accounting policies 76
Treasury policies 7753
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group financial review
“We continued to make progress in delivering
against our strategy and the financial goals
we have set out in our financial architecture.”
Simon Dingemans
Chief Financial Officer
Our 2017 results reflect a continued focus Due to their magnitude, charges related
on execution including driving growth to the impact of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs
from existing products and recent launches; Act enacted in 2017 have been excluded
controlling costs tightly to help build better from Adjusted results.
operating leverage across the Group, while
GSK continues to present both Total
also investing behind our future growth
and Adjusted results in all tables and
drivers; and improving cash generation
commentaries and has provided a
to increase our capacity to support both
reconciliation between the two on
investment and the dividends we pay to
page 67.
our shareholders.
Sales growth
Financial architecture
All three of our businesses delivered
We are using our financial architecture
growth in 2017.
to ensure that the delivery of our strategic
priorities of Innovation, Performance and Pharmaceuticals sales were up 7% AER,
Trust translate into clear financial goals 3% CER, with growth from HIV products,
that we can embed across the Group. our Ellipta portfolio and Nucala more than
offsetting the decline in sales of Seretide/
These goals are targeted at delivering
Advair and Established Pharmaceuticals,
Viability statement stronger growth in sales through improved
as well as a 1% drag from divestments.
Our viability statement sets out our innovation across all three businesses,
assessment of the prospects of the driving earnings per share faster than sales, In Vaccines, we generated significant
Group over the next three years and through better operating leverage from growth from our meningitis and flu portfolios,
is presented on page 57. tight cost control and continued financial and benefited from increased demand for
efficiencies, and converting more of those Established Vaccines. We finished the year
earnings into cash which can either be with overall Vaccines sales up 12% AER,
reinvested in the business or returned to 6% CER.
shareholders. Critically, these goals need Consumer Healthcare delivered growth
to be delivered in the right way, consistent of 8% AER, 2% CER, reflecting a strong
with our values and our objective of building performance from power brands in the
trust in GSK. Pain and Oral health categories, partly
We are using the architecture and its offset by the impact of continued competitive
goals to help create a step-change in the pressures in the US allergy category and
alignment of our operations across three a broader market slowdown across key
fully integrated businesses, including a categories. In addition, reported growth
new end-to-end emphasis on cost, cash was impacted by the divestment of the
and capital discipline. Nigerian beverages business in 2016
and the implementation of the Goods
Reporting framework & Service Tax in India during 2017.
Our Reporting Framework is described
in more detail on page 58. Following a Operating leverage
detailed review, we made some changes The Total operating margin was 13.5%
in 2017. Core results were renamed of sales compared with 9.3% in 2016.
Adjusted results and now include The increased margin reflected primarily
ordinary course legal charges. lower accounting charges related to
the remeasurement of the liabilities for
contingent consideration, put options
and preferential dividends.
Footnote
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures
to report the performance of our business, as described
on page 58, including Adjusted results, free cash flow
and CER growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be
considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for
or superior to, information presented in accordance
with IFRS.54
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Capital allocation framework
Key priorities for capital
– Pharmaceuticals pipeline
Invest in the business
– Consumer Healthcare put option
Innovation – Vaccines capacity
Improved
– 80p per share dividend expected for 2018
Performance cash Shareholder returns
– Focus on rebuilding free cash flow over time
generation – Target 1.25x to 1.5x cover before returning dividend to growth
Trust
Other transactions M&A – Strict discipline on returns
The Adjusted operating margin of 28.4% US tax reform Contingent consideration
was 0.9 percentage points higher than in The enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs At the end of 2017, GSK had liabilities
2016 and 0.4 percentage points higher Act in December 2017 is expected to have for contingent consideration payments of
on a CER basis. This reflected improved a positive impact on the future after tax £6.2 billion, of which £5.5 billion related
operating leverage driven by sales growth earnings of GSK’s US businesses. This is to the estimated present value of future
and a more favourable mix in all three primarily due to the reduction in Federal payments to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare.
businesses, together with the benefit to corporation tax rates from 1 January 2018, The payments to Shionogi are calculated
Vaccines of a settlement for lost third party which is expected to benefit the Group each quarter based on a high-teens
supply volume and a favourable year-on-year effective tax rate on Adjusted profits in percentage of the revenues of the relevant
comparison to inventory adjustments in 2016. 2018 by two to three percentage points. products, principally dolutegravir, with the
Tight control of ongoing costs across all We intend to apply the flexibility and cash discounted fair value of the total future
three businesses also contributed, along benefits these reforms will provide in payments reflecting the current expectations
with further benefits from restructuring and accordance with our capital allocation of total future sales of those products.
integration. These were partly offset by framework. Further details are provided in Note 39,
increases in R&D investment (including ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
The enactment of the new law has
a charge of £106 million on the Priority
resulted in a number of additional charges Free cash flow
Review Voucher utilised in HIV), as well as
in 2017, which reduced Total earnings by Net cash inflow from operating activities was
continuing price pressure, particularly in
£1,630 million. £6.9 billion and free cash flow for the Group
Respiratory, and supply chain investments.
These charges represent management’s was £3.4 billion, compared with £3.0 billion
Our work to maintain tight control of costs estimates of the impact of US tax reform on in 2016. The Sterling increase of 14%
across the Group included supply chain the Group based on the information currently reflected the improved operating profit
efficiencies from a mixture of site closures, available. As more information on the detailed performance, a positive currency benefit
consolidating our manufacturing supplier application of the Act becomes available, and reduced cash spending on restructuring
base and simplifying our global distribution the assumptions underlying these estimates and capital expenditures, partly offset by
and logistics network. We are also further could change, with consequent adjustments increased working capital, mainly due to
stepping up our focus on procurement to the charges taken that could have a the building of inventory in advance of new
through a new global organisation. material impact on the results of the Group. product launches.
Financial efficiency Earnings per share Net debt
Financial efficiency remains a priority. Total EPS was 31.4p (2016 – 18.8p). Net debt at the end of 2017 amounted to
Successfully refinancing maturing debt The increase reflected primarily lower £13.2 billion, £0.6 billion lower than at the
during 2017 allowed us to hold net accounting charges related to the end of 2016. The reduction was primarily
financing costs relatively flat for the year. remeasurement of the liabilities for attributable to improved free cash flow of
We continue to focus on protecting our contingent consideration, put options £3.4 billion and disposal proceeds of
credit profile and funding flexibility. and preferential dividends. £0.6 billion together with a translation
benefit of £0.6 billion on the Sterling value
Adjusted EPS of 111.8p was up 11% AER,
of non-Sterling denominated debt, more
4% CER, reflecting improved operating
than offsetting the cash dividends paid to
leverage that delivered earnings growth
shareholders in the year of £3.9 billion.
faster than sales growth.55
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Capital allocation framework In the event that no substitutable generic
Our approach to Brexit
The priorities for the use of our capital version of Advair is introduced to the US
remain as presented in July 2017. They market in 2018, the Group expects 2018
We have evaluated the impact of Brexit
are focused on three particular priorities: Adjusted EPS growth of 4-7% at CER.
on our business operations, including
investing in the business, delivering cash This is based on an expected decline in
our supply chain and quality oversight.
returns to shareholders through dividends 2018 in US Advair sales of 20-25%.
Our priority is to maintain continuity of
and potentially accessing strategic
In the event of a mid-year introduction of a GSK’s supply of medicines, vaccines
acquisitions that would strengthen the
substitutable generic competitor to Advair and health products to our patients and
business, subject to them meeting a strict
in the US, the Group expects full-year 2018 consumers in the UK and the EU.
set of returns criteria. In establishing the
US Advair sales of around £750 million at
first priority as investing in the business, Uncertainty remains about the future
CER (US$1.30/£1), with Adjusted EPS flat
we identified a primary focus on relationship between the UK and the
to down 3% at CER.
strengthening the Pharmaceuticals business EU. As a result, we have agreed a
and, in particular, its R&D pipeline. We also Both scenarios reflect the benefit of US risk-based approach to mitigation across
confirmed the attractiveness of accepting tax reform with an expected 2018 effective the organisation. Implementation of our
the Consumer Healthcare put option, should tax rate on Adjusted profits of 19-20%. contingency plan has been underway
it be exercised, and continuing to expand We are not able to give guidance for Total since January 2018, with an immediate
capacity in key product lines across our results as we cannot reliably forecast certain focus on our supply chains. This includes
Vaccines business. material elements of our Total results such expanding our ability in the EU and the
UK to conduct re-testing and certification
To strengthen how we allocate capital and as the future fair value movements on
of medicines; transferring Marketing
to ensure that we are allocating funding contingent consideration and put options.
Authorisations registered in the UK
to where the most attractive returns are
Returns to shareholders to an EU entity; updating packaging
available, we have implemented a clearer
For 2017, we maintained our ordinary and packaging leaflets; amending
framework and created a new board to
dividend at 80p in line with the commitment manufacturing and importation licences,
govern the allocation of capital between
we made to shareholders at the time we and securing additional warehousing.
our businesses.
closed the Novartis transaction in early 2015.
We currently anticipate that the cost to
We have expanded the use of cash flow-
GSK recognises the importance of implement these and other necessary
based return metrics beyond individual
dividends to shareholders and aims to changes could be up to £70 million
project assessments. Now that we have
distribute regular dividend payments that over the next two to three years, with
been able to create fully integrated business
will be determined primarily with reference to subsequent ongoing additional costs
units for Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and
the free cash flow generated by the business of approximately £50 million per year,
Consumer Healthcare, we have been able
after funding the investment necessary to including additional customs duties and
to apply a more consistent cash return on
support the Group’s future growth. transaction or administration costs. These
invested capital (CROIC) methodology to
charges represent our estimates of the
prioritise investment across the Group as a The Board intends to maintain the dividend
impact of Brexit based on the information
whole, so that we can compare the returns for 2018 at the current level of 80p per share,
currently available. As more information
from each of the three integrated businesses subject to any material change in the external
on the changes to our business that
as we allocate capital between them. environment or performance expectations.
will be required after Brexit becomes
We also regularly benchmark ourselves Over time, as free cash flow strengthens,
available, the assumptions underlying
with peers relevant to each of our three we intend to build free cash flow cover of
these estimates could change, with
businesses. the annual dividend to a target range of
consequent adjustments, either up or
1.25-1.50x, before returning the dividend
2018 guidance to growth. down, to the additional costs we expect
We expect continued progress in 2018, to incur. We will continue to adjust our
including sales growth contributions from A fuller review of the financial results is plans and their expected financial impact
our new and recent product launches in HIV, set out on pages 56 to 78. as negotiations and regulations develop.
Respiratory and Vaccines. Delivering these necessary but complex
The expectation for 2018 Adjusted EPS changes by March 2019 will be ambitious
growth is dependent on a number of factors and potentially disruptive in the short term
including, in particular, uncertainties relating and we support efforts to secure a status
to the timing and extent of potential generic quo transition period to minimise
competition to Advair in the US. Simon Dingemans disruption. Over the longer term, we
continue to believe that Brexit will not
Chief Financial Officer have a material impact on our business.56
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Our approach to tax
We understand our We understand our responsibility to pay The Total tax rate also reflected the
an appropriate amount of tax, and fully reassessment of estimates of uncertain
responsibility to pay
support efforts to ensure companies are tax positions following the settlement of a
an appropriate amount appropriately transparent about how their number of open issues with tax authorities
tax affairs are managed. Tax is an important in various jurisdictions.
of tax while being element of the economic contribution we
Tax risk is managed by a set of policies
bring to the countries in which we operate.
financially efficient and procedures to ensure consistency and
We do not engage in artificial tax
compliance with tax legislation. Our Audit
and delivering a arrangements – those without business
& Risk Committee and the Board are
or commercial substance. We do not seek
sustainable tax rate. responsible for approving our tax policies
to avoid tax by the use of ‘tax havens’ or
and risk management approach.
transactions we would not fully disclose
to a tax authority. We have a zero tolerance We seek to maintain open, positive
approach to tax evasion and the facilitation relationships with governments and tax
of tax evasion. authorities worldwide and we welcome
constructive debate on taxation policy.
We have a substantial business and
employment presence in many countries 2017 has seen the enactment of significant
around the globe and we pay a significant reforms of tax laws in multiple jurisdictions.
amount of tax, including corporation and We expect there to be continued focus
other business taxes, as well as tax on tax reform in the future, driven by the
associated with our employees. At the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit
same time, we have a responsibility to our Shifting (‘BEPS’) project and European
shareholders to be financially efficient and Commission initiatives such as fiscal state
deliver a sustainable tax rate. As part of this aid investigations. The outputs from the
approach, we look to align our investment OECD BEPS projects clarified the
strategies to those countries where we important principle that tax should be paid
already have substantial economic activity, on profits throughout the supply chain,
and where government policies promote where the profit-making activity takes place.
regimes which are attractive to business GSK supports the BEPS proposals,
investment and R&D activity, and are in particular the implementation of the
transparent in their intent and available to OECD’s recommendations on ‘Country by
all relevant tax payers. Examples include Country Reporting’, including the exchange
the UK Patent Box and Research and of this data between tax authorities. This
Development Expenditure Credit. data, validated against existing information
In 2017, the Group corporate tax charge held on taxpayers, will support their ability
was £1,356 million (2016 – £877 million) to ensure multinational groups pay an
on profits of £3,525 million (2016 – £1,939 appropriate amount of tax.
million) representing an effective tax rate of The detailed tax implications of Brexit are
38.5% (2016 – 45.2%). We made cash dependent on the outcome of negotiations
tax payments of £1,340 million in the year between the UK and EU, and are therefore
(2016 – £1,609 million). In addition to the currently unknown. However, we continue
taxes we pay on our profits, we pay duties, to work closely with the ABPI and BIA to
levies, transactional and employment taxes. analyse the potential implications for the
Our Adjusted tax rate for 2017 was 21.0% industry in order to highlight key focus areas
(2016 – 21.3%). Subject to any material for the Government as part of its Brexit
changes in our product mix, or other negotiations. The direct tax implications,
material changes in tax regulations or laws in particular, are expected to be limited
in the countries in which we operate, and for GSK while the indirect implications
following the impact of US tax reform, the may be more significant, including potential
Group’s effective Adjusted tax rate for 2018 customs duty costs and additional
and the next several years is expected to be transaction or administrative costs
in the region of 19-20%. associated with managing import and
export obligations on the movement of
The Group’s Total tax rate of 38.5% (2016
goods between the UK and EU. Our
– 45.2%) for 2017 was higher than the
approach to Brexit is set out on page 55.
Adjusted tax rate as it was affected by the
impact of US and Swiss tax reforms, Our approach to tax is set out in detail
as explained at Note 14, together with within the Public Policy positions section
Footnote transaction-related charges arising on of our website. Further details about our
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, the Group’s put option liabilities. corporate tax charges for the year are set
measures to report the performance of our out on page 177.
business, as described on page 58.57
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been evaluated:
GSK has assessed the prospects of the company over a longer
– Scenario 1: Business performance risks. These include key
period than the 12 months required by the ‘Going Concern’
performance risks, including lower sales from new products; the
provision. The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable
possible impact of a generic alternative to Seretide/Advair in the
expectation that GSK will continue to operate and meets its liabilities,
US; intensifying competition in the HIV market; greater adverse
as they fall due, over the next three years. The Directors’ assessment
impact from generic competition and other competitive launches to
has been made with reference to GSK’s current position and
other GSK products, as well as possible supply and manufacturing
prospects, our strategy, the Board’s risk appetite and GSK’s
challenges.
principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed on pages
20 and 21 in the Strategic report. – Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks. This scenario
reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside factors
The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management such as more intense competition, increased pricing pressure in
policies and approves our governance structure and code of both the US and Europe as well as the potential impact of material
conduct. It also appraises and approves major financing, investment negative changes in the macro-economic and healthcare
and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance environment.
and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus is largely on improving
– Scenario 3: Principal risks. This scenario includes a severe
our long-term financial performance through delivery of our company
assessment of the potential loss impact from the Principal risks
and three business strategies and aligned Innovation, Performance
related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain continuity as
and Trust priorities.
well as anti-bribery and corruption and any consequent regulatory
The Board reviews GSK’s strategy and makes significant capital actions or fines, all of which could fundamentally threaten our
investment decisions over a long term time horizon, based on a operations. These risks are managed through mitigating activities
multi-year assessment of return on capital, the performance of the described on pages 257 to 266.
company and its three business units, and the market opportunity
– Scenario 4: Put option exercise. This scenario evaluates the
in the pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer healthcare sectors.
additional funding requirements assuming the earliest potential
This approach is aligned to GSK’s model of achieving balanced
exercise of the outstanding put options held by our partners in
growth by investing in high quality, innovative products for patients,
the HIV and Consumer Healthcare businesses.
consumers and healthcare providers. However, since many internal
and external parameters become increasingly unpredictable over The three year review also makes certain assumptions about the
longer time horizons, GSK focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers whether
on a three year cycle. The Plan is reviewed at least annually by the additional financing facilities will be required and the respective level
Directors, who approve business forecasts showing expected of funding flexibility and headroom.
financial impact. The Directors believe that a three year assessment The results of this stress testing show that certain combinations of
period for the Viability statement is most appropriate as it aligns with these hypothetical scenarios could increase funding demands on
the company’s well established business planning processes that GSK and require mitigating changes to the Group’s funding strategy.
balance the long term nature of investments in the pharmaceutical, However, in light of the liquidity available to the Group and based on
vaccines and consumer healthcare sectors with an assessment of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that, even
the period over which analysis of near term business performance under the stress tests described above, the company will be able to
is realistically visible. continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the
The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational three year period of assessment.
and principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Board’s
review on risk. The downside scenarios consider GSK’s cash flows,
sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance provision and
recovery as well as other key financial ratios over the period. These
metrics have been subject to sensitivity analysis, which involves
flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying the forecasts
both individually and in combination, along with mitigating actions
that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or
occurrence of the underlying risk.58
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework
Presentation of Group results Contingent consideration
Our Group financial review discusses the operating and financial GSK has recognised a significant liability for contingent
performance of the Group, its cash flows and financial position and consideration (£6,172 million at 31 December 2017 on a fair value
our resources. We compare the results for each year primarily with discounted basis) of which £5,542 million represented the estimated
the results of the preceding year. present value of future amounts payable to Shionogi relating to
ViiV Healthcare, discounted at 8.5%. The payments to Shionogi
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report
are calculated based on the sales performance over the life of the
the performance of our business. These measures are used by
relevant products, principally dolutegravir, as described on page 59.
management for planning and reporting purposes and in discussions
The effect of the required IFRS accounting treatment is that GSK
with and presentations to investment analysts and rating agencies
recognises these fair value liabilities on the balance sheet, with
and may not be directly comparable with similarly described
remeasurement charges reflected immediately in other operating
measures used by other companies. Non-IFRS measures may
income. These charges are adjusted from Total results to present
be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, or superior
Adjusted results. GSK will make cash payments in the future to
to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
discharge this liability which will not be recorded in the profit and
Total results loss account and future earnings.
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall performance.
However, these results can contain material unusual or non- Free cash flow
operational items that may obscure the key trends and factors From 2017, adjusted free cash flow is no longer being reported
determining the Group’s operational performance. As a result, and the free cash flow definition has been amended to include all
we also report Adjusted results, which is a non-IFRS measure. contingent consideration payments made during the period.
Adjusted results Free cash flow, which is a non-IFRS measure, is now defined as the
As announced on 11 April 2017 in the ‘Change to financial reporting net cash inflow from operating activities less capital expenditure,
framework’ press release, from 2017, core results have been contingent consideration payments, net interest and dividends paid
renamed Adjusted results and, instead of all legal charges and to non-controlling interests plus proceeds from the sale of property,
expenses, only significant legal charges and expenses are excluded plant and equipment and dividends received from joint ventures and
in order to present Adjusted results. All other legal charges and associates. It is used by management for planning and reporting
expenses are included in Adjusted results. Significant legal charges purposes and in discussions with and presentations to investment
and expenses are those arising from the settlement of litigation or analysts and rating agencies. Free cash flow growth is calculated
a government investigation that are not in the normal course and on a reported basis. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from
materially larger than more regularly occurring individual matters. operations to free cash flow is presented on page 71.
They also include certain major legacy legal matters. Any new
Free cash flow conversion
significant legal matters excluded in order to present Adjusted
Free cash flow conversion is free cash flow as a percentage of
results will be disclosed at the time.
Total earnings.
As a result of the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on
22 December 2017, GSK has recorded charges on initial application Working capital conversion cycle
which reduced Total earnings by £1.6 billion, as set out on page 68. The working capital conversion cycle is calculated as the number
Due to their magnitude, GSK has reported these charges as of days sales outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, less
Adjusting items in 2017 so that they do not obscure the key trends days purchases outstanding.
in the Group’s operational performance for the year.
CER and AER growth
Adjusted results now exclude the following items from Total results: In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is our practice to
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (excluding computer discuss the results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth.
software) and goodwill; major restructuring costs, including those This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to
costs following material acquisitions; significant legal charges (net determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had
of insurance recoveries) and expenses on the settlement of litigation remained unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER%
and government investigations, transaction-related accounting represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% or AER%
adjustments for significant acquisitions, and other items, including represents growth at actual exchange rates.
disposals of associates, products and businesses and other
operating income other than royalty income, together with the
tax effects of all of these items and the impact of the enactment
of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017.
GSK believes that Adjusted results are more representative of
the performance of the Group’s operations and allow the key trends
and factors driving that performance to be more easily and clearly
identified by shareholders. The definition of Adjusted results, as set
out above, also aligns the Group’s results with the majority of its peer
companies and how they report earnings.
Reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results, as set out
on page 67, including detailed breakdowns of the key adjusting
items, are provided to shareholders to ensure full visibility and
transparency as they assess the Group’s performance.59
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare
Trading profit allocations Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis) to
Because ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% of Shionogi at 31 December 2017, £724 million (31 December 2016 –
its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after tax) are £545 million) is expected to be paid within one year.
included within the Group income statement and then a portion
Exit rights
of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling interests owned
by the other shareholders, in line with their respective equity Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if
shareholdings (Pfizer 11.7% and Shionogi 10%). Each of the either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not
shareholders, including GSK, is also entitled to preferential dividends completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to acquire
determined by the performance of certain products that each its shareholding. Under the original agreements, GSK had the
shareholder contributed. As the relative performance of these unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent distribution
products changes over time, the proportion of the overall earnings to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the exercise of the
of ViiV Healthcare allocated to each shareholder will change. Pfizer put options and, as a result, in accordance with IFRS, GSK
In particular, the increasing sales of Tivicay and Triumeq have a did not recognise a liability for the put option on its balance sheet.
favourable impact on the proportion of the preferential dividends In Q1 2016, GSK notified Pfizer that it had irrevocably given up
that is allocated to GSK. GSK was entitled to approximately this right and accordingly recognised the liability for the put option
80% of the Adjusted earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2017. on the Group’s balance sheet at an initial value of £1,070 million.
Remeasurements of the liabilities for the preferential dividends Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of Q1 2016
allocated to Pfizer and Shionogi are included within Adjusting GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential dividends
items as other operating income. anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi on the
Group’s balance sheet.
Acquisition-related arrangements
The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizer’s shareholding
As part of the agreement reached to acquire Shionogi’s interest
are as follows:
in the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, ViiV
Healthcare agreed to pay additional consideration to Shionogi 2017 2016
£m £m
contingent on the performance of the products being developed
Pfizer put option 1,304 1,319
by that joint venture, principally dolutegravir. The liability for this
Pfizer preferential dividend 17 23
contingent consideration was estimated and recognised in the
Group’s balance sheet at the date of acquisition. Subsequent
Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have requested
remeasurements are reflected within other operating income
GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare in six month
and within Adjusting items in the income statement.
windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022. GSK had the
Cash payments are made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent distribution
quarter which reduce the balance sheet liability for the contingent to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the exercise of the
consideration and as a result are not recorded in the income Shionogi put option and, as a result, GSK did not recognise a liability
statement. In 2017, the total cash payments made to Shionogi in for the put option on its balance sheet. In Q1 2016, GSK notified
respect of the contingent consideration amounted to £671 million. Shionogi that it had irrevocably given up this right and accordingly
The payments are calculated based on the sales performance of recognised the liability for the put option on the Group’s balance
the relevant products in the previous quarter and are reflected in sheet at an initial value of £926 million. In Q4 2016, Shionogi
the cash flow statement partly in operating cash flows and partly irrevocably agreed to waive its put option and as a result GSK
within investing activities. The tax relief on these payments is derecognised the liability for this put option on the Group’s balance
reflected in the Group’s Adjusting items as part of the tax charge. sheet directly to equity. The value of the liability was £1,244 million
The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of the when it was derecognised.
fair value of the contingent consideration on the acquisition of the
GSK also has a call option over Shionogi’s shareholding in ViiV
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of £659 million is
Healthcare, which under the original agreements was exercisable in
reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement and
six month windows commencing in 2027, 2030 and 2032. GSK has
the part of each payment relating to the increase in the liability since
now irrevocably agreed to waive the first two exercise windows, but
the acquisition is reported within operating cash flows.
the last six month window in 2032 remains. As this call option is at
Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi were fair value, it has no value for accounting purposes.
as follows:
2017 2016
£m £m
Contingent consideration at beginning of the year 5,304 3,409
Additions – 154
Remeasurement through income statement 909 2,162
Cash payments: operating cash flows (587) (351)
Cash payments: investing activities (84) (66)
Other movements – (4)
Contingent consideration at end of the year 5,542 5,304
The additions in 2016 represented the recognition of the preferential
dividends payable to Shionogi.60
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Group turnover
Group turnover by geographic region
Turnover (£bn) 2016
AER growth CER growth 2017 (revised) Growth Growth
£30.2bn 8% 3% £m £m £% CER%
US 11,263 10,197 10 6
Europe 7,943 7,476 6 –
International 10,980 10,216 7 3
30,186 27,889 8 3
2015 23.9
The US sales growth of 10% AER, 6% CER was driven by continued
2016 27.9
strong performances from Triumeq and Tivicay and growth in the
Respiratory portfolio, together with strong performances in the US
2017 30.2
from Hepatitis and Meningitis vaccines.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Europe sales grew 6% AER, but were flat at CER as growth from
Triumeq, Tivicay and Meningitis vaccines was offset by the decline
in Established Pharmaceuticals, including the impact of the disposal
Group turnover of the Romanian distribution business in Q4 2016. Respiratory sales
were up 5% AER, but flat at CER, as the decline in Seretide offset
2017 2016 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% the growth in the new Respiratory products.
Pharmaceuticals 17,276 16,104 7 3 In International, sales growth of 7% AER, 3% CER reflected
Vaccines 5,160 4,592 12 6 strong growth in Triumeq, Tivicay and the Respiratory portfolio,
Consumer Healthcare 7,750 7,193 8 2 with Established Pharmaceuticals flat, including the impact of
Group turnover 30,186 27,889 8 3 divestments. Growth in Emerging Markets of 8% AER, 4% CER
was also impacted by divestments.
Group turnover for the year increased 8% AER, 3% CER to
Sales from new Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products
£30,186 million, with growth delivered by all three businesses.
Pharmaceuticals sales were up 7% AER, 3% CER, reflecting the 2017 2016 Growth Growth
£m £m £ % CER%
continued strong growth of the new Respiratory and HIV products,
Respiratory
partly offset by declines in older Respiratory products, including
Seretide/Advair and Established Pharmaceuticals, including the Anoro Ellipta 342 201 70 63
impact of recent divestments. Arnuity Ellipta 35 15 >100 >100
Incruse Ellipta 201 114 76 68
Vaccines sales were up 12% AER, 6% CER, reflecting a strong
Nucala 344 102 >100 >100
performance from Meningitis and Influenza vaccines and higher
demand for Established Vaccines, as well as the benefit of Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,006 620 62 55
favourable year-on-year US CDC stockpile movements. CVMU
Eperzan/Tanzeum 87 121 (28) (31)
Consumer Healthcare sales grew 8% AER, 2% CER reflecting
a strong performance from power brands in the Pain and Oral health HIV
categories, partly offset by the impact of continued competitive Tivicay 1,404 953 47 40
pressures in the US allergy category and a broader market slowdown Triumeq 2,461 1,735 42 35
in key categories. In addition, reported growth was impacted by Pharmaceuticals 5,880 3,861 52 45
the Nigerian beverages business divestment in Q3 2016 and the Bexsero 556 390 43 34
implementation of the Goods & Service Tax (GST) in India on
Menveo 274 202 36 29
1 July 2017.
Shingrix 22 –
Vaccines 852 592 44 36
6,732 4,453 51 44
In 2015, GSK identified a series of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine
products that were expected to deliver at least £6 billion of revenues
per annum on a CER basis by 2020. Those products are as set out
above and do not include Trelegy Ellipta and Juluca, which had initial
sales in 2017 of £2 million and £5 million, respectively. The Group
has previously announced its plans to withdraw Tanzeum. At 2015
exchange rates the equivalent value of the 2017 sales was
£5.7 billion.
Sales of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products were
£6,732 million, grew £2,279 million in Sterling terms (51% AER,
44% CER) and represented approximately 30% of Pharmaceuticals
and Vaccines turnover in the year.61
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Respiratory
Total Respiratory portfolio sales were up 7% AER, 3% CER, with the
Pharmaceuticals
US up 8% AER, 3% CER, Europe up 5% AER but flat at CER and
International up 9% AER, 5% CER. Growth of the new Respiratory
products more than offset the decline in Seretide/Advair.
Turnover (£bn)
AER growth CER growth The new Respiratory products recorded combined sales of £1,930
£17.3bn 7% 3% million in 2017 with sales of Ellipta products up 67% AER, 59% CER
driven by continued strong growth in the US and the ongoing roll-out
across Europe and International. Sales of Nucala were £344 million,
57% of Group turnover
a Sterling increase of £242 million, and included sales of £236
million in the US.
The aggregate growth of the Ellipta products was driven primarily
2015 14.2 by the contribution of the US, where sales were up 72% AER, 65%
CER on the back of further market share gains. Total Relvar/Breo
2016 16.1
Ellipta sales grew 62% AER, 55% CER to £1,006 million, with the
US up 75% AER, 67% CER to £602 million. Anoro Ellipta sales
2017 17.3
grew 70% AER, 63% CER to £342 million, also reflecting market
0 5 10 15 20 share gains in the US. All Ellipta products, Breo, Anoro, Incruse and
Arnuity, continued to grow market share in the US in the year.
Seretide/Advair sales declined 10% AER, 14% CER to £3,130
Pharmaceuticals turnover million. Sales in the US declined 12% AER, 16% CER (5% volume
decline and a 11% negative impact of price), with payer rebate
2017 2016 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% adjustments related to prior periods favourably impacting sales in
Respiratory 6,991 6,510 7 3 the year. In Europe, Seretide sales were down 12% AER, 17% CER
to £736 million (11% volume decline and a 6% negative impact of
HIV 4,350 3,556 22 16
price), reflecting continued competition from generics and the
Immuno-inflammation 377 340 11 6
transition of the Respiratory portfolio to newer products. In
Established Pharmaceuticals 5,558 5,698 (2) (5)
International, sales of Seretide declined 5% AER, 8% CER to
17,276 16,104 7 3 £784 million (6% volume decline and a 2% negative impact of price),
also reflecting increased generic competition and the transition to the
Pharmaceuticals turnover in 2017 was £17,276 million, up 7% AER,
newer Respiratory products.
3% CER. Respiratory sales grew 7% AER, 3% CER to £6,991
million, driven by the Ellipta portfolio and Nucala, while HIV sales Pricing pressures also affected other older products with Ventolin
were up 22% AER, 16% CER to £4,350 million, driven by increases sales declining 2% AER, 6% CER to £767 million, including the
in market share for Triumeq and Tivicay. Sales of Established negative impact of payer rebate adjustments related to prior periods
Pharmaceuticals declined 2% AER, 5% CER, reflecting a three in the US. Flixotide/Flovent sales were down 6% AER, 10% CER to
percentage point impact of recent divestments. These divestments £596 million, with the US down 15% AER, 18% CER.
reduced overall Pharmaceuticals CER growth by one percentage The net impact of adjustments to payer rebates for prior periods
point, most significantly impacting the contribution from Europe and across the US Respiratory portfolio was broadly neutral to reported
Emerging Markets. US Respiratory sales.
In the US, sales growth of 11% AER, 6% CER was driven by the
HIV portfolio and new Respiratory products. Europe sales grew
3% AER but declined 3% CER, reflecting the continued transition
of the Respiratory portfolio and generic competition to Kivexa as
well as the disposal of the Romanian distribution business during
Q4 2016 which reduced growth by three percentage points.
Reported International sales growth was impacted by the benefit
to Q1 2016 of the accelerated sale of inventory under supply
agreements to Novartis as well as the disposal of the thrombosis
and anaesthesia businesses to Aspen in Q1 2017, which reduced
reported growth in International by one percentage point and in
Emerging Markets by two percentage points to 7% AER, 5% CER.
Sales in Japan grew 6% AER, 3% CER.62
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
HIV Established Pharmaceuticals
HIV sales increased 22% AER, 16% CER to £4,350 million in the Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals in 2017 were £5,558 million,
year, with the US up 26% AER, 21% CER, Europe up 10% AER, declining 2% AER, 5% CER, impacted by the comparison with the
3% CER and International up 33% AER, 26% CER. The growth in accelerated sale of inventory under supply agreements to Novartis in
all three regions was driven by continued increases in market share Q1 2016 as well as the disposal of the thrombosis and anaesthesia
for Triumeq and Tivicay, partly offset by the impact of generic businesses to Aspen in Q1 2017 and the disposal of the Romanian
competition to Epzicom/Kivexa, particularly affecting the European distribution business in Q4 2016. The impact of these disposals on
market. The ongoing increase in patient numbers for both Triumeq the growth of the Established Pharmaceuticals portfolio was
and Tivicay resulted in sales of £2,461 million and £1,404 million, approximately three percentage points.
respectively, in the year. Juluca was approved in the US in
The Avodart franchise declined 3% AER, 9% CER to £613 million
November 2017, and recorded initial sales of £5 million.
primarily due to the loss of exclusivity in the US and Europe and the
Epzicom/Kivexa sales declined 59% AER, 61% CER to £234 impact of favourable RAR adjustments in 2016.
million, reflecting the ongoing generic competition since Q3 2016.
Dermatology sales grew 16% AER, 11% CER to £456 million,
Immuno-inflammation reflecting improved supply in Emerging Markets and growth in Japan,
Sales grew 11% AER, 6% CER in the year. The negative impact while Augmentin sales grew 4% AER, 2% CER to £587 million.
of the divestment of raxibacumab, which recorded strong sales
in Q4 2016, was more than offset by the growth of Benlysta,
up 23% AER, 17% CER to £375 million, driven by a strong
US performance.63
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Established Vaccines
Sales of the DTPa-containing vaccines (Infanrix, Pediarix and
Vaccines
Boostrix) were up 5% AER, but flat at CER. Boostrix sales grew
19% AER, 13% CER, benefiting from higher demand across all
regions. Infanrix, Pediarix sales were down 3% AER, 8% CER,
Turnover (£bn) mainly driven by increased competitive pressures in the US and
AER growth CER growth
£5.2bn Europe, together with a new market entrant in Europe, partly offset
12% 6%
by favourable year-on-year CDC stockpile movements in the US.
Hepatitis vaccines grew 15% AER, 10% CER to £693 million,
17% of Group turnover
benefiting from a competitor supply shortage and higher demand in
the US, partly offset by the unfavourable impact of CDC stockpile
movements in the US and supply constraints in Europe and
2015 3.7 International.
Rotarix was up 12% AER, 6% CER to £524 million, reflecting higher
2016 4.6
demand in Europe and International.
2017 5.2 Synflorix sales were up 1% AER, but down 6% CER to £509 million,
due to lower pricing in Emerging Markets partly offset by higher
0 1 2 3 4 5
demand elsewhere in International.
Priorix/Priorix Tetra/Varilrix sales were flat at AER, but down 5% CER
to £301 million, mainly due to supply constraints in International.
Vaccines turnover
Cervarix sales increased by 65% AER, 57% CER to £134 million,
2017 2016 Growth Growth driven by its recent launch in China.
£m £m £% CER%
Meningitis 890 662 34 27
Influenza 488 414 18 12
Shingles 22 –
Established Vaccines 3,760 3,516 7 1
5,160 4,592 12 6
Vaccines turnover grew 12% AER, 6% CER to £5,160 million,
primarily driven by Meningitis vaccines, with Bexsero growing across
all regions and Menveo growing in the US and Europe, and higher
sales of influenza products, primarily in the US and Europe.
Established Vaccines growth was driven by Hepatitis vaccines,
mainly due to a competitor supply shortage in the US, higher
demand for Boostrix and Rotarix and the launch of Cervarix in China.
Favourable year-on-year CDC stockpile movements for Infanrix,
Pediarix and Menveo in the US also contributed to growth. These
were partly offset by increasing competitive pressures on Infanrix,
Pediarix in the US and Europe, and lower Synflorix sales, driven
primarily by lower pricing in developing countries.
Meningitis
Meningitis sales grew 34% AER, 27% CER to £890 million. Bexsero
sales growth of 43% AER, 34% CER was driven by new national
immunisation programmes, private market sales and regional tenders
in Europe, as well as growing demand and share gains in the US,
together with strong private market sales in International. Menveo
sales grew 36% AER, 29% CER, primarily driven by the impact of
favourable year-on-year CDC stockpile movements, partly offset by
supply constraints in International.
Influenza
Fluarix/FluLaval sales were up 18% AER, 12% CER to £488 million,
reflecting strong sales execution, primarily in the US, and higher
demand in Europe.
Shingles
Shingrix recorded initial sales into the channel of £22 million in the
US after its FDA approval and favourable ACIP recommendations.64
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Wellness
Wellness sales grew 7% AER, 2% CER to £4,001 million.
Consumer Healthcare
This reflected a strong performance from Voltaren and Cold & flu
seasonal products, partly offset by a weaker performance from
US allergy products.
Turnover (£bn)
AER growth CER growth Respiratory sales were up 7% AER, 2% CER as strong broadly-
£7.8bn 8% 2% based growth from Theraflu and Otrivin, particularly in Europe and
International, was partly offset by competitive pressures in the US
for Flonase OTC from private label products.
26% of Group turnover
Pain relief sales were up 10% AER, 4% CER, driven significantly
by Voltaren with growth across all regions, benefiting from
momentum in the 12-hour variant, strong in-store and marketing
2015 6.0 activation, expansion of expert detailing and strong performances
in International markets. Panadol also grew strongly in Europe,
2016 7.2
benefiting from new advertising campaigns, and in International
in low single digits.
2017 7.8
Oral health
0 2 4 6 8 10
Oral health sales grew 11% AER, 6% CER to £2,466 million.
Sensodyne continued to drive performance, reporting growth of
12% AER, 8% CER, with strong delivery in all regions following the
Consumer Healthcare turnover roll out of next generation Sensodyne Rapid Relief and the launch
of Pronamel Strong & Bright. Sales of parodontax continued to
2017 2016 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% grow strongly, reflecting double-digit performances in Europe
and International, driven by a brand reset and increases in dentist
Wellness 4,001 3,726 7 2
recommendations, as well as the US launch in the first quarter.
Oral health 2,466 2,223 11 6
Denture care grew in mid-single digits with double-digit growth
Nutrition 680 674 1 (5)
in emerging markets partly offset by slower consumption growth
Skin health 603 570 6 – in the US and Germany.
7,750 7,193 8 2
Nutrition
Nutrition sales grew 1% AER and declined 5% CER to £680 million,
2016 adversely impacted by the sale of the Nigeria beverages business
2017 (revised) Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% in Q3 2016 and the implementation of GST on 1 July, as well as
US 1,826 1,761 4 (1) continued competitive pressures for Horlicks in India. The net impact
of the divestment of the Nigeria beverages business, implementation
Europe 2,360 2,169 9 3
of GST offset by the favourable comparison with the impact of
International 3,564 3,263 9 4
demonetisation in the prior year reduced Nutrition CER growth
7,750 7,193 8 2
by approximately six percentage points.
Consumer Healthcare turnover was up 8% AER, 2% CER at Skin health
£7,750 million, impacted by slower global growth in key categories. Skin health sales grew 6% AER, but were flat at CER at £603
A strong performance by power brands across Wellness and Oral million, with low single-digit growth in the US, a slight decline
health was partly offset by competitive pressures in the US allergy within Europe and International flat. Fenistil sales grew strongly,
category, impacting Flonase OTC, as well as lower sales of tail with good performances in Central & Eastern Europe, Germany
brands across the Nutrition and Skin health categories and a broader and the Middle East, following digital activation and new media
market slowdown in key categories. In addition, reported growth was campaigns. Physiogel and Lamisil continued to be impacted by
impacted by the disposal of the Nigeria beverages business in competitor activity, whilst Lip care sales grew in mid-single digits.
Q3 2016 and the implementation of the Goods & Service Tax (GST)
in India in July, the net effects of which were partly offset by the
benefit of the comparison with the impact of demonetisation in India
in Q4 2016. The divestment, GST and demonetisation combined to
reduce overall Consumer Healthcare CER growth by approximately
one percentage point.
Sales from new GSK innovations (product introductions within
the last three years on a rolling basis) represented approximately
13% of sales in the period. Notable launches this year included
parodontax and Flonase Sensimist in the US, the continued global
roll out of Flonase OTC and several line extensions for Sensodyne,
including next generation Sensodyne Rapid Relief and Sensodyne
Deep Clean.65
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Total results
Cost of sales
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 34.3%, up 1.0
Turnover (£bn) AER growth CER growth percentage points in Sterling terms and up 1.4 percentage points
8% 3%
£30.2bn in CER terms compared with 2016. This primarily reflected the
phasing of costs of manufacturing restructuring programmes
including non-cash write downs as a result of plant closures and
the write down of assets related to the progressive withdrawal
of Tanzeum, as well as continued adverse pricing pressure in
2015 23.9 Pharmaceuticals, primarily Respiratory, and additional supply chain
investments. This was partly offset by a more favourable product
2016 27.9 mix across all three businesses, particularly in Pharmaceuticals,
reflecting the impact of higher HIV sales, and in Vaccines, reflecting
2017 30.2 the benefit of a settlement for lost third party supply volume and a
favourable year-on-year comparison to inventory adjustments in
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
2016. There was also a continued contribution from integration
and restructuring savings in all three businesses.
Total operating profit (£bn) AER growth CER growth
Selling, general and administration
57% 39%
£4.1bn SG&A costs were 32.0% of turnover, 1.5 percentage points lower
than in 2016 in Sterling and CER terms. This primarily reflected
lower restructuring costs and tight control of ongoing operating
costs, particularly in Consumer Healthcare, as well as continued
cost reductions in Pharmaceuticals, including the benefits of the
2015 10.3 Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme, and integration benefits
in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare. This was partly offset by an
2016 2.6 increased investment in promotional product support, particularly
for new launches in Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines.
2017 4.1
Research and development
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
R&D expenditure was £4,476 million (14.8% of turnover), 23%
higher than in 2016 at AER and 19% higher at CER. This included
charges of £106 million from the utilisation of the Priority Review
The total results of the Group are set out below. Voucher in 2017 as well as increased investment in the progression
of a number of mid and late-stage programmes. In addition, there
2017 2016 Growth were higher restructuring costs, primarily as a result of the provision
% of % of for future clinical obligations as a result of the progressive
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER% withdrawal of Tanzeum and the decision to terminate the rights
Turnover 30,186 100 27,889 100 8 3 to sirukumab, and higher intangible asset impairments.
Cost of sales (10,342) (34.3) (9,290) (33.3) 11 8
Selling, general and Royalty and other operating income/(expense)
administration (9,672) (32.0) (9,366) (33.6) 3 (1) Net other operating expense of £1,609 million (2016 – £3,007
Research and million) primarily reflected lower accounting charges arising from the
development (4,476) (14.8) (3,628) (13.0) 23 19 re-measurement of the contingent consideration liabilities related to
Royalty income 356 1.1 398 1.4 (11) (13) the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the acquisition
Other operating income/ of the former Novartis Vaccines business, the value attributable to
(expense) (1,965) (6.5) (3,405) (12.2) the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option and the liabilities
Operating profit 4,087 13.5 2,598 9.3 57 39 for the Pfizer put option and Pfizer and Shionogi preferential
Net finance costs (669) (664) dividends in ViiV Healthcare. The remeasurement charges of
Profit on disposal of £2,185 million (2016 – £3,914 million) reflected updated trading
interest in associates 94 – forecasts and changes in exchange rate assumptions as well as
Share of after tax the unwinding of the discount applied to these future liabilities of
profits of associates £1,001 million. They also included charges of £666 million arising
and joint ventures 13 5 from the positive impact of US tax reform on the valuation of the
Profit before taxation 3,525 1,939 82 58 Consumer Healthcare and HIV businesses. These charges were
Taxation (1,356) (877) partly offset by the gain of £250 million on the disposal of the
Profit after taxation anaesthesia business to Aspen and royalty income of £356 million
for the year 2,169 1,062 >100 71 (2016 – £398 million).
Profit attributable to
shareholders 1,532 912
Earnings per share (p) 31.4 18.8 67 36
Earnings per ADS
(US$) 0.82 0.5166
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Total results continued
Operating profit Profit before taxation
Total operating profit was £4,087 million in 2017 compared with Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of
£2,598 million in 2016. The increase primarily reflected a reduced associates and the share of profit of associates, profit before
impact from accounting charges related to the remeasurement of the taxation was £3,525 million compared with £1,939 million in 2016.
liabilities for contingent consideration, put options and preferential
Taxation
dividends. In addition operating profit benefited from an improved
operating margin driven by sales growth across all three businesses, 2017 2016
£m £m
but particularly Vaccines, and a more favourable mix in all three
UK current year charge 199 241
businesses. In Vaccines, there was also a favourable year-on-year
Rest of world current year charge 1,928 1,326
comparison with inventory adjustments in 2016 and the benefit of
a one-off settlement in cost of sales. Continued tight control of Charge in respect of prior periods (508) (149)
ongoing costs and benefits from restructuring and integration also Total current taxation 1,619 1,418
contributed to improved margins in Vaccines and Consumer Total deferred taxation (263) (541)
Healthcare, but in Pharmaceuticals, the benefits were offset by an Taxation on total profits 1,356 877
overall increase in Pharmaceuticals R&D investment (including the
A tax charge of £1,356 million on Total profit represented an effective
impact of the Priority Review Voucher) together with continuing price
tax rate of 38.5% (2016 – 45.2%) and included a charge of £1,078
pressure, particularly in Respiratory, and supply chain investments
million arising from US tax reform as described in more detail on
to support new products.
page 68. This was partly offset by a £483 million benefit from Swiss
Net finance costs tax reform, arising from the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities on
acquired Consumer Healthcare brands to reflect a reduction in the
2017 2016
Finance income £m £m headline tax rate.
Interest and other income 63 70
Non-controlling interests
Fair value movements 2 2
The allocation of earnings to non-controlling interests amounted to
65 72
£637 million (2016 – £150 million), including the non-controlling
interest allocations of Consumer Healthcare profits of £415 million
Finance expense (2016 – £203 million) and the allocation of ViiV Healthcare profits,
Interest expense (720) (701) which increased to £187 million (2016 – £83 million loss) including
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (16) (16) the impact of changes in the proportions of preferential dividends
Remeasurements and fair value movements (4) (4) due to each shareholder. The increase in allocation of ViiV
Other finance expense 6 (15) Healthcare profits primarily reflected the impact of lower
remeasurement charges and the increase in allocation of Consumer
(734) (736)
Healthcare profits reflected improved operating profits together with
Profit on disposal of associates the benefit of Swiss tax reform in 2017.
The profit on disposal of associates was £94 million (2016 – £nil).
Earnings per share
This arose from the disposal of our entire shareholdings in two
Total earnings per share were 31.4p, compared with 18.8p in 2016.
associates, River Vision Development Co. Ltd and JCR
The increase reflected the reduced impact of charges arising from
Pharmaceuticals Co Ltd.
the revaluations of the liabilities for contingent consideration and
the put options associated with increases in the Sterling value of
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
the Group’s HIV and Consumer Healthcare businesses, the benefit
The share of profits of associates and joint ventures was £13 million
from Swiss tax reform and improved performances by the relevant
(2016 – £5 million).
businesses, partly offset by the charges arising from US tax reform.
Dividends
The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a total dividend
for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend declared for 2016.
See Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.67
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Adjusting items
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and US tax Adjusted
Adjusted results reconciliation
results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items reform results
31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,186 30,186
Cost of sales (10,342) 546 400 545 80 – (8,771)
Gross profit 19,844 546 400 545 80 – 21,415
Selling, general and administration (9,672) 248 83 (9,341)
Research and development (4,476) 45 288 263 18 (3,862)
Royalty income 356 356
Other operating income/(expense) (1,965) 1,519 (220) 666 –
Operating profit 4,087 591 688 1,056 1,599 (119) 666 8,568
Net finance costs (669) 4 8 (657)
Profit on disposal of associates 94 (94) –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 13
Profit before taxation 3,525 591 688 1,060 1,599 (205) 666 7,924
Taxation (1,356) (134) (176) (209) (619) (251) 1,078 (1,667)
Tax rate 38.5% 21.0%
Profit after taxation 2,169 457 512 851 980 (456) 1,744 6,257
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 42 114 793
Profit attributable to shareholders 1,532 457 512 851 938 (456) 1,630 5,464
Earnings per share 31.4p 9.4p 10.5p 17.4p 19.2p (9.4)p 33.3p 111.8p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,886 4,886
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant Adjusted
Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and results
Adjusted results reconciliation
results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items (revised)
31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,889 27,889
Cost of sales (9,290) 547 7 297 86 2 (8,351)
Gross profit 18,599 547 7 297 86 2 19,538
Selling, general and administration (9,366) 514 55 (8,797)
Research and development (3,628) 41 13 159 (81) 28 (3,468)
Royalty income 398 398
Other operating income/(expense) (3,405) 3,914 (509) -
Operating profit 2,598 588 20 970 3,919 (424) 7,671
Net finance costs (664) 4 8 (652)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 5 5
Profit before taxation 1,939 588 20 974 3,919 (416) 7,024
Taxation (877) (130) (5) (217) (439) 170 (1,498)
Tax rate 45.2% 21.3%
Profit after taxation 1,062 458 15 757 3,480 (246) 5,526
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 150 487 637
Profit attributable to shareholders 912 458 15 757 2,993 (246) 4,889
Earnings per share 18.8p 9.4p 0.3p 15.6p 61.6p (5.1)p 100.6p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,860 4,86068
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
Intangible asset amortisation and impairment The aggregate impact of unwinding the discount on these future
Intangible asset amortisation was £591 million, compared with and potential liabilities was £1,001 million (2016 – £905 million),
£588 million in 2016. Intangible asset impairments of £688 million including £543 million on the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
(2016 – £20 million) included impairments related to the progressive put option and £408 million on the contingent consideration related
withdrawal of Tanzeum and a number of other commercial and R&D to the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare Joint Venture. The remaining
assets following the refocusing of the R&D pipeline during 2017. charge of £598 million was driven by adjustments to trading
Both of the amortisation and impairment charges were non-cash forecasts and the impact of updated exchange rate assumptions
items. on those forecasts for the relevant businesses as well as updated
multiples used in the valuation of the Consumer Healthcare Joint
Major restructuring and integration
Venture put option.
Major restructuring and integration charges of £1,056 million
have been incurred (2016 – £970 million). Non-cash charges Contingent consideration cash payments which are made to
were £525 million, primarily reflecting the write down of assets as Shionogi and other companies reduce the balance sheet liability and
a result of the decision to withdraw Tanzeum and terminate rights hence are not recorded in the income statement. Total contingent
to sirukumab arising from the establishment of the Group’s new consideration cash payments in 2017 amounted to £685 million
business priorities, as well as the write down of assets related to (2016 – £431 million). This included cash payments made by ViiV
reductions in the site network. Cash charges were £531 million Healthcare to Shionogi in relation to its contingent consideration
(2016 – £704 million), including charges as a result of the decisions liability (including preferential dividends) which amounted to
to withdraw Tanzeum and terminate rights to sirukumab. Cash £671 million (2016 – £417 million).
payments made were £555 million (2016 – £1,077 million), including
An explanation of the accounting for the non-controlling interests
the settlement of certain charges previously accrued, but also
in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 59.
reflecting the deferral of some payments into 2018. Cash payments
of approximately £0.5 billion are expected in 2018. The programme The impact on profit after tax from transaction-related adjustments
delivered incremental cost savings in 2017 of £0.7 billion, including includes an accounting credit in respect of Swiss tax reform of
£0.2 billion of currency benefits. £483 million, arising from the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities
on acquired Consumer Healthcare brands to reflect a reduction in
Charges for the combined restructuring and integration programme
the headline Swiss tax rate.
to date are £4.8 billion, of which cash charges are £3.5 billion. Cash
payments of £3.1 billion have been made to date. Non-cash charges Divestments and other items
are £1.3 billion. Divestments and other items included the profit on disposal of the
anaesthesia business to Aspen of £250 million, a number of other
An extension to the existing combined programme was agreed by
asset disposals, equity investment impairments and certain other
the Board in July 2017, with total cash charges of the combined
adjusting items. Significant legal charges of £68 million (2016 –
programme now expected to be approximately £4.1 billion and
£62 million) included the benefit of the settlement of existing matters
non-cash charges up to £1.6 billion. The programme has now
as well as provisions for ongoing litigation. Significant legal cash
delivered approximately £3.7 billion of annual savings, including
payments were £192 million (2016 – £102 million).
a currency benefit of £0.4 billion. The extended programme is now
expected to deliver by 2020 total annual savings of £4.0 billion on US tax reform
a constant currency basis, together with an estimated £0.4 billion The enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has resulted in a
of currency benefits on the basis of 2017 average exchange rates. number of additional charges in 2017, which reduced Total earnings
Transaction-related adjustments by £1,630 million.
Transaction-related adjustments resulted in a net charge of Firstly, increased valuations of the HIV and Consumer Healthcare
£1,599 million (2016 – £3,919 million). This primarily reflected businesses due to lower US tax rates resulted in an increase in the
accounting charges for the re-measurement of the liability and the related liabilities for contingent consideration and the put options of
unwinding of the discounting effects on the contingent consideration £666 million.
related to the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint
Secondly, an additional tax charge of £1,078 million comprised
venture, the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of the
a reduction in the value of US deferred tax assets held against
former Novartis Vaccines business, and the value attributable to the
future liabilities, such as pensions, and a current tax credit, together
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option held by Novartis.
amounting to £730 million, as well as a charge of £348 million arising
These transaction-related adjustments exclude the impact on these
on the reserves of subsidiaries of US entities in the Group. The cash
liabilities arising from the implementation of the US Tax Cuts and
impact of this latter charge will be spread over eight years from 2018,
Jobs Act in 2017 which is set out separately on this page.
with approximately 60% expected to be payable in years six to eight.
2017 2016 These charges were partly offset by an allocation to non-controlling
Charge/(credit) £m £m
interests amounting to £114 million, as many of the adjustments
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option 986 1,133
related to ViiV Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare Joint
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV Venture.
Healthcare Joint Venture (including Shionogi
preferential dividends) 556 2,162 These charges represent management’s estimates of the impact
of US tax reform on the Group based on the information currently
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential
dividends (126) 577 available. As further guidance from the US Treasury on implementation
of the Act becomes available, particularly with regard to the
Contingent consideration on former Novartis
Vaccines business 101 69 repatriation tax provisions, the assumptions underlying these estimates
Other adjustments 82 (22) could change. This could result in adjustments to the charges taken
that could have a material impact on the results of the Group.
Total transaction-related charges 1,599 3,91969
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Adjusted results
Selling, general and administration
Turnover (£bn) AER growth CER growth 2016
2017 (revised) Growth
8% 3%
£30.2bn % of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Selling, general and
administration (9,341) (30.9) (8,797) (31.5) 6 1
SG&A costs were 30.9% of turnover, 0.6 percentage points lower
2015 23.9 in Sterling terms than in 2016 and 0.5 percentage points lower on
a CER basis. This primarily reflected tight control of ongoing costs,
2016 27.9 particularly in Consumer Healthcare, continued cost reductions in
Pharmaceuticals, including the benefits of the Pharmaceuticals
2017 30.2
restructuring programme, and integration benefits in Vaccines
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 and Consumer Healthcare. This was partly offset by increased
investment in promotional product support, particularly for new
launches in Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines.
Adjusted operating profit (£bn) AER growth CER growth
Research and development
12% 5%
£8.6bn
2017 2016 Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Research and
development (3,862) (12.8) (3,468) (12.4) 11 8
2015 5.7a
R&D expenditure was £3,862 million (12.8% of turnover), 11% higher
2016 7.7a
than 2016 at AER and 8% higher at CER. This included a charge of
£106 million on the utilisation of the Priority Review Voucher in
2017 8.6
Q2 2017 as well as increased investment in the progression of a
0 2 4 6 8 10 number of mid and late-stage programmes.
2016
2017 (revised) Growth
a. A djusted results now exclude only significant legal charges per revised definition on £m £m £% CER%
page 58. Prior year figures have been revised.
Discovery 1,020 821 24 21
We use Adjusted results, which is a non-IFRS measure, among Development 1,450 1,249 16 13
other metrics including total results and cash flow generation, Facilities and central support functions 536 558 (4) (7)
to manage the performance of the Group. Non-IFRS measures
Total Pharmaceuticals 3,006 2,628 14 11
may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or
Vaccines R&D 621 597 4 (2)
superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
Consumer Healthcare R&D 235 243 (3) (7)
The definition of Adjusted results is set out on page 58.
Research and development 3,862 3,468 11 8
Cost of sales
The growth in Development expenditure was driven by the
2017 2016 Growth
progression of a number of mid and late-stage programmes in
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER% HIV, Respiratory and Anaemia, together with the utilisation of the
Cost of sales (8,771) (29.1) (8,351) (29.9) 5 1 Priority Review Voucher in Q2 2017. The continuing high growth in
Discovery expenditure reflected further investment in the early stage
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.1%, down 0.9 Oncology portfolio.
percentage points in Sterling terms and down 0.5 percentage
points in CER terms compared with 2016. This reflected a more Royalty income
favourable product mix across all three businesses, particularly in Royalty income was £356 million (2016 – £398 million). The
Pharmaceuticals, including the impact of higher HIV sales, as well reduction was primarily due to the patent expiry of Cialis in Q4 2016
as favourable product mix, the benefit of a settlement for lost third and a catch-up adjustment recorded in Q1 2016.
party supply volume and a favourable year-on-year comparison to
inventory adjustments in 2016 in Vaccines. There was also a further
contribution from integration and restructuring savings in all
three businesses, offset by continued adverse pricing pressure in
Pharmaceuticals, primarily Respiratory, and additional supply
chain investments.70
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Adjusted results continued
Adjusted operating profit Consumer Healthcare
Adjusted operating profit was £8,568 million, 12% AER higher than Consumer Healthcare operating profit was £1,373 million, 23% AER
in 2016 and 5% CER higher on a turnover increase of 3% CER. higher than in 2016 and 11% CER higher on a turnover increase of
The Adjusted operating margin of 28.4% was 0.9 percentage points 2%. The operating margin of 17.7% was 2.2 percentage points
higher than in 2016 and 0.4 percentage points higher on a CER higher than in 2016 and 1.3 percentage points higher on a CER
basis. This reflected improved operating leverage driven by sales basis, reflecting tight control of costs, integration synergies,
growth and a more favourable mix in all three businesses, together principally in SG&A, partly offset by increased investment in
with, in Vaccines, the benefit of a settlement for lost third party supply power brands.
volume and a favourable year-on-year comparison to inventory
adjustments in 2016. There was also continued tight control of Net finance costs
ongoing costs across all three businesses as well as benefits from
2017 2016
restructuring and integration. This was partly offset by the charge Finance income £m £m
of £106 million on the utilisation of the Priority Review Voucher in Interest and other income 63 70
Q2 2017 as well as other increases in R&D investment, continuing Fair value movements 2 2
price pressure, particularly in Respiratory, and supply chain
65 72
investments.
Finance expense
Adjusted operating profit by business Interest expense (720) (701)
2016 Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (4) (4)
2017 (revised) Growth Remeasurements and fair value movements (4) (4)
Margin Margin
Other finance expense 6 (15)
£m % £m % £% CER%
Pharmaceuticals 8,667 50.2 7,976 49.5 9 3 (722) (724)
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,740) (2,488) 10 7
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
Pharmaceuticals 5,927 34.3 5,488 34.1 8 1
The share of profits of associates and joint ventures was £13 million
Vaccines 1,644 31.9 1,429 31.1 15 11 (2016 – £5 million).
Consumer
Healthcare 1,373 17.7 1,116 15.5 23 11 Adjusted profit before taxation
8,944 29.6 8,033 28.8 11 4 2016
Corporate & other 2017 (revised) Growth
unallocated costs (376) (362) 4 (3) % of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Adjusted operating
Adjusted profit
profit 8,568 28.4 7,671 27.5 12 5
before tax 7,924 26.3 7,024 25.2 13 5
Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals operating profit was £5,927 million, 8% AER higher Taxation
than in 2016 and 1% CER higher on a turnover increase of 3% CER. Tax on Adjusted profit amounted to £1,667 million and represented
The operating margin of 34.3% was 0.2 percentage points higher an effective Adjusted tax rate of 21.0% (2016 – 21.3%).
than in 2016 on a Sterling basis but 0.6 percentage points down
Non-controlling interests
on a CER basis. This primarily reflected increased R&D investment,
The allocation of Adjusted earnings to non-controlling interests
including the impact of the utilisation of the Priority Review Voucher
amounted to £793 million (2016 – £637 million), including the
in Q2 2017. The operating margin also reflected increased
non-controlling interest allocations of Consumer Healthcare profits
investment in new product support, as well as the continued impact
of £344 million (2016 – £288 million) and the allocation of ViiV
of lower prices, particularly in Respiratory, and the broader transition
Healthcare profits, which increased to £414 million (2016 –
of the Respiratory portfolio, partly offset by a more favourable
£324 million) including the impact of changes in the proportions
product mix, primarily driven by the growth in HIV sales, and the
of preferential dividends due to each shareholder. The increase
continued cost reduction benefit of the Group’s Pharmaceuticals
in allocation also reflected comparison with the reduction in the
restructuring programme.
allocation to non-controlling interests due to higher net losses in
Vaccines some of the Group’s other entities with non-controlling interests
Vaccines operating profit was £1,644 million, 15% AER higher than in 2016.
in 2016 and 11% CER higher on a turnover increase of 6% CER. The
Adjusted earnings per share
operating margin of 31.9% was 0.8 percentage points higher than in
Adjusted EPS of 111.8p was up 11% AER, 4% CER compared
2016 on a Sterling basis and 1.3 percentage points higher on a CER
with a 5% CER increase in Adjusted operating profit.
basis. This was primarily driven by improved product mix, the benefit
of a settlement for lost third party supply volume and a favourable
year-on-year comparison with inventory adjustments in 2016,
together with continued restructuring and integration benefits. This
was partly offset by increased SG&A resources to support business
growth and new launches, increased supply chain costs and lower
royalty income.71
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Cash generation and conversion
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out below. Reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities
to free cash flow
2017 2016 A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, which is
£m £m
the closest equivalent IFRS measure to free cash flow, is shown
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,918 6,497
below.
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,443) (1,269)
2016
Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,380) (6,392)
2017 (revised)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (905) (1,164) £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,918 6,497
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 4,605 5,486
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,545) (1,543)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts (905) (1,164)
Purchase of intangible assets (657) (809)
Exchange adjustments (100) 283
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 281 98
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,600 4,605
Interest paid (781) (732)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year Interest received 64 68
comprise:
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 6 42
Cash and cash equivalents 3,833 4,897
Contingent consideration paid (reported in
Overdrafts (233) (292) investing activities) (91) (73)
3,600 4,605 Contribution from non-controlling interests 21 –
Distributions to non-controlling interests (779) (534)
The net cash inflow from operating activities for the year was
Free cash flow 3,437 3,014
£6,918 million (2016 – £6,497 million). The increase primarily
reflected improved operating profit performance, as well as a positive Future cash flow
currency benefit, partly offset by increased working capital reflecting Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from
the building of inventory in advance of new product launches, operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt servicing
increased contingent consideration payments and legal settlements. costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations under
Total cash payments to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV Healthcare existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from restructuring
contingent consideration liability in the year were £671 million, of programmes and other routine outflows including tax, pension
which £587 million was recognised in cash flows from operating contributions and dividends, subject to the ‘Principal risks and
activities and £84 million was recognised in contingent consideration uncertainties’ discussed on pages 257 to 266. We may from time
paid within investing cash flows. These payments are deductible for to time have additional demands for finance, such as for acquisitions,
tax purposes. including potentially acquiring increased ownership interests in the
ViiV Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare businesses where
Capital expenditure and financial investment minority shareholders hold put options. We have access to multiple
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital markets and
to £2,202 million (2016 – £2,352 million) and disposals realised financial institutions for such needs, in addition to the cash flow
£807 million (2016 – £453 million). Cash payments to acquire equity from operations.
investments of £80 million (2016 – £96 million) were made and sales
of equity investments realised £64 million (2016 – £683 million). Investment appraisal and capital allocation
We have strengthened our framework for capital allocation,
Free cash flow including the creation of a new board to govern the allocation of
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business capital between our businesses. We utilise a consistent cash return
after meeting our obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to on invested capital (CROIC) methodology to prioritise investment
non-controlling interests, and after capital expenditure on property, across the Group as a whole, so that we can more effectively
plant and equipment and intangible assets. compare the returns from each of the businesses as we allocate
capital between them. We also consider the impact on EPS and
2017 2016 our credit profile where relevant.
£m £m
Free cash inflow 3,437 3,014 The discount rate used to perform financial analyses is decided
internally, to allow determination of the extent to which investments
Free cash flow was £3,437 million for the year (2016 – £3,014 cover our cost of capital. For individual investments the discount rate
million). The increase primarily reflected improved operating profit may be adjusted to take into account specific country, business or
performance, as well as a positive currency benefit and increases project risk.
in returns and rebates, partly offset by increased working capital,
Working capital
reflecting seasonal factors and the building of inventory in advance
of new product launches, increased contingent consideration 2017 2016
payments, the purchase of the Priority Review Voucher, increased Working capital percentage of turnover (%) 22 22
dividends to non-controlling interests, including a catch up Working capital conversion cycle (days) 191 193
adjustment, and higher legal settlements. Free cash flow in 2016
was also impacted by the costs of acquiring the HIV Clinical assets The reduction of two days in 2017 compared with 2016 was
from BMS for £221 million. predominantly due to a beneficial impact from exchange of
approximately seven days, partly offset by a build in inventory
in advance of new product launches and an increase in trade
receivables from higher sales.72
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources
Property, plant and equipment
2017 2016
£m £m Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
Assets regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
Non-current assets financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our property,
plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption to production
Property, plant and equipment 10,860 10,808
and to ensure compliance with regulatory standards. A number of
Goodwill 5,734 5,965
our processes use hazardous materials.
Other intangible assets 17,562 18,776
Investments in associates and joint ventures 183 263 The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at 31 December
2017 was £21,719 million, with a net book value of £10,860 million.
Other investments 918 985
Of this, land and buildings represented £4,270 million, plant and
Deferred tax assets 3,796 4,374
equipment £4,132 million and assets in construction £2,458 million.
Derivative financial instruments 8 – In 2017, we invested £1,584 million in new property, plant and
Other non-current assets 1,413 1,199 equipment. This was mainly related to a large number of projects
Total non-current assets 40,474 42,370 for the renewal, improvement and expansion of facilities at various
worldwide sites. Property is mainly held freehold. New investment is
Current assets
financed from our liquid resources. At 31 December 2017, we had
Inventories 5,557 5,102 contractual commitments for future capital expenditure of £584
Current tax recoverable 258 226 million and operating lease commitments of £1,045 million. We
Trade and other receivables 6,000 6,026 believe that our property and plant facilities are adequate for our
Derivative financial instruments 68 156 current needs.
Liquid investments 78 89 We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to
Cash and cash equivalents 3,833 4,897 manage environmental risks from our activities. Environmental issues,
Assets held for sale 113 215 sometimes dating from operations now modified or discontinued,
are reported under ‘Environmental sustainability’ on page 61 and in
Total current assets 15,907 16,711
Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Total assets 56,381 59,081
Goodwill
Liabilities
Goodwill decreased during the year to £5,734 million at 31
Current liabilities
December 2017, from £5,965 million. The decrease primarily
Short-term borrowings (2,825) (4,129) reflected the impact of exchange movements.
Contingent consideration liabilities (1,076) (561)
Trade and other payables (20,970) (11,964) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired
Derivative financial instruments (74) (194)
from third parties and computer software. The net book value of
Current tax payable (995) (1,305)
other intangible assets as at 31 December 2017 was £17,562 million
Short-term provisions (629) (848)
(2016 – £18,776 million). The decrease in 2017 reflected the impact
Total current liabilities (26,569) (19,001) of exchange movements and the amortisation and impairment of
existing intangibles of £934 million and £680 million respectively,
Non-current liabilities
partly offset by the development costs capitalised during the year
Long-term borrowings (14,264) (14,661)
of £251 million and other additions of £454 million.
Corporation tax payable (411) –
Deferred tax liabilities (1,396) (1,934) Investments in associates and joint ventures
We held investments in associates and joint ventures with a carrying
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,539) (4,090)
value at 31 December 2017 of £183 million (2016 – £263 million).
Other provisions (636) (652)
The market value at 31 December 2017 was £372 million (2016 –
Contingent consideration liabilities (5,096) (5,335)
£502 million). The largest of these investments was in Innoviva Inc.
Other non-current liabilities (981) (8,445) which had a book value at 31 December 2017 of £147 million
Total non-current liabilities (26,323) (35,117) (2016 – £138 million). The market value at 31 December 2017
Total liabilities (52,892) (54,118) was £336 million. See Note 20 to the financial statements
Net assets 3,489 4,963 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’.
Equity Other investments
Share capital 1,343 1,342 We held other investments with a carrying value at 31 December
2017 of £918 million (2016 – £985 million). The decrease in the
Share premium account 3,019 2,954
carrying value during the year was primarily due to the impact of
Retained earnings (6,477) (5,392)
exchange movements. The most significant of the investments held
Other reserves 2,047 2,220
at 31 December 2017 was in Theravance Biopharma, Inc. which
Shareholders’ equity (68) 1,124 had a book value at 31 December 2017 of £199 million (2017 –
Non-controlling interests 3,557 3,839 £248 million). The other investments included equity stakes in
companies with which we have research collaborations, which
Total equity 3,489 4,963
provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest
and interests in companies that arise from business divestments.73
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial position and resources continued
Derivative financial instruments: assets Pensions and other post-employment benefits
We had current derivative financial instruments held at fair value We account for pension and other post-employment
of £68 million (2016 – £156 million) and non-current derivative arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The deficits,
financial instruments held at fair value of £8 million (2016 – £nil). net of surpluses before allowing for deferred taxation were
The majority of these financial instruments related to foreign £1,505 million (2016 – £2,084 million) on pension arrangements
exchange contracts both designated and not designated as and £1,496 million (2016 – £1,693 million) on unfunded post-
accounting hedges. employment liabilities. The decreases in the deficits were
predominantly driven by special funding contributions to the
Inventories
UK and US schemes and significant UK asset gains partly
Inventory of £5,557 million increased from £5,102 million in 2016. offset by lower discount rates that we used to discount the
The increase primarily reflected inventory build in advance of new value of the liabilities.
product launches.
Other non-current liabilities
Trade and other receivables
Other non-current liabilities amounted to £981 million at
Trade and other receivables of £6,000 million decreased from 31 December 2017 (2016 – £8,445 million). This decrease from
£6,026 million in 2016, primarily reflecting exchange movements 2016 reflects the reclassification of the Consumer Healthcare put
partly offset by the impact of higher sales. option to current liabilities during the year.
Deferred tax assets Contingent consideration liabilities
Deferred tax assets of £3,796 million decreased from £4,374 million Contingent consideration liabilities amounted to £6,172 million at
in 2016 primarily as a result of the revaluation of existing deferred tax 31 December 2017 (2016 – £5,896 million), of which £5,542 million
assets to reflect the lower headline US tax rate following enactment (2016 – £5,304 million) represented the estimated present value
of US tax reform, partly offset by an increase in deferred tax assets of amounts payable to Shionogi relating to ViiV Healthcare and
related to intra-Group profit on inventory. £584 million (2016 – £545 million) represented the estimated
present value of contingent consideration payable to Novartis related
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
to the Vaccines acquisition. The liability due to Shionogi included
We held current derivative financial instruments at fair value of
£216 million in respect of preferential dividends. The liability for
£74 million (2016 – £194 million). This primarily related to foreign
preferential dividends due to Pfizer at 31 December 2017 was
exchange contracts both designated and not designated as
£17 million. An explanation of the accounting treatment of our
accounting hedges.
interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 59.
Trade and other payables
Net debt
Trade and other payables amounting to £20,970 million increased
from £11,964 million in 2016, reflecting the reclassification of the 2017 2016
£m £m
Consumer Healthcare put option of £8,606 million from non-current
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 3,911 4,986
liabilities. This relates to the present value of the estimated amount
payable by us in the event of full exercise of Novartis’ right to require Borrowings – repayable within one year (2,825) (4,129)
us to acquire its 36.5% shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Borrowings – repayable after one year (14,264) (14,661)
Joint Venture. As this option became exercisable from 2 March 2018, Net debt (13,178) (13,804)
with payment likely to be due several months after exercise, it has
At 31 December 2017, net debt was £13.2 billion, compared
been classified within current liabilities on the Group balance sheet.
with £13.8 billion at 31 December 2016, comprising gross debt
Further details are provided in Note 3, ‘Key accounting judgements
of £17.1 billion and cash and liquid investments of £3.9 billion.
and estimates’.
The decrease in net debt primarily reflected the improved free cash
Provisions flow of £3.4 billion, disposal proceeds of £0.6 billion, together with
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and a £0.6 billion favourable exchange impact from the translation of
non-current provisions of £2,661 million at 31 December 2017 non-Sterling denominated debt, which more than offset the cost
(2016 – £3,434 million). The decrease in the year primarily reflected of dividends paid to shareholders of £3.9 billion.
a reduction in the deferred tax provision as a result of Swiss tax At 31 December 2017, our cash and liquid investments were held
reform. Other provisions at the year-end include £186 million as follows:
(2016 – £344 million) related to legal and other disputes and
£504 million (2016 – £554 million) related to the major restructuring 2017 2016
£m £m
programme. Provision has been made for legal and other disputes,
Bank balances and deposits 1,715 2,583
indemnified disposal liabilities, employee related liabilities and the
US Treasury and Treasury repo
costs of the restructuring programme to the extent that at the balance
only money market funds 1,715 2,248
sheet date a legal or constructive obligation existed and could be
reliably estimated. Liquidity funds 403 66
Cash and cash equivalents 3,833 4,897
Liquid investments – Government securities 78 89
3,911 4,986
Cash and liquid investments of £2.5 billion (2016 – £3.2 billion) were
held centrally at 31 December 2017.74
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Maturity profile of gross debt
Maturity profile of gross debt
£m equivalent
4,500
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2018 2019 2020 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2029 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042 2043 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds Commercial paper Other bank borrowings Leases
The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging Total equity
is as follows. At 31 December 2017, total equity had decreased from £4,963
million at 31 December 2016 to £3,489 million. This primarily
2017 2016 reflected the impact of the dividends paid exceeding the Total profit
£m £m
for the year offset by favourable exchange translation impact from the
Cash and liquid investments 3,911 4,986
weaker Sterling rates. The Total profit for the year was impacted by
Gross debt – fixed (16,229) (17,288)
the charge in respect of US tax reform.
– floating (805) (1,496)
– non-interest bearing (55) (6) A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
Net debt (13,178) (13,804) 2017 2016
£m £m
Total equity at beginning of year 4,963 8,878
Movements in net debt Total comprehensive income for the year 2,882 2,024
Dividends to shareholders (3,906) (4,850)
2017 2016
£m £m Ordinary shares issued 56 89
Net debt at beginning of year (13,804) (10,727) Changes in non-controlling interests (2) 32
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (905) (1,164) Recognition of liabilities with non-controlling interests – (2,172)
Increase in liquid investments (4) – De-recognition of liabilities with non-controlling
Increase in long-term loans (2,233) – interests – 1,244
Net repayment of/(increase in) short-term loans 3,200 (148) Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (65) (74)
Exchange movements 585 (1,781) Share-based incentive plans 333 319
Other movements (17) 16 Tax on share-based incentive plans (4) 7
Net debt at end of year (13,178) (13,804) Contributions from non-controlling interests 21 –
Distributions to non-controlling interests (789) (534)
Total equity at end of year 3,489 4,96375
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial position and resources continued
Share purchases We have entered into a number of research collaborations to develop
In 2017, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. The terms
acquired £65 million of shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc (2016 – of these arrangements can include upfront fees, equity investments,
£74 million). Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises loans and commitments to fund specified levels of research. In
of options and awards under the Group share option and award addition, we will often agree to make further payments if future
schemes. A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in ‘milestones’ are achieved.
respect of awards where the rules of the scheme require us to
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
satisfy exercises through market purchases rather than the issue
stages of development, the potential obligation to make milestone
of new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to
payments will continue for a number of years if the compounds move
options and awards granted.
successfully through the development process. Generally, the closer
At 31 December 2017, the ESOP Trusts held 66.7 million the product is to marketing approval, the greater the probability
(2016 – 43 million) GSK shares against the future exercise of of success. The amounts shown above within intangible assets
share options and share awards. The carrying value of £400 million represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones were
(2016 – £286 million) has been deducted from other reserves. The achieved, and include £4.5 billion which relates to externalised
market value of these shares was £882 million (2016 – £667 million). projects in the discovery portfolio. There was a reduction in the
commitments in 2017 due to amendments made to existing
During 2017, no shares were repurchased. At 31 December 2017,
agreements and obligations which have ceased.
we held 414.6 million shares as Treasury shares (2016 – 458.2
million shares), at a cost of £5,800 million (2016 – £6,451 million), In 2016, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK
which has been deducted from retained earnings. pension schemes to make additional contributions, including in 2016,
to assist in eliminating the pension deficit identified as part of the
No ordinary shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2018
31 December 2014 actuarial funding valuation. The table above
to 12 March 2018 and the company does not expect to make any
includes this commitment but excludes the normal ongoing annual
ordinary share repurchases in the remainder of 2018.
funding requirement in the UK of approximately £130 million. For
Commitments and contingent liabilities further information on pension obligations, see Note 28 to the
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 41 to the financial financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
Contingent liabilities
obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other
Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are expected to expire.
set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other
post-employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set
out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’. Guarantees 315 151 127 31 6
Other contingent liabilities 119 17 61 3 38
Contractual obligations and commitments
Total 434 168 188 34 44
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and
commitments at 31 December 2017 as they fall due for payment. In the normal course of business, we have provided various
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A provision
£m £m £m £m £m
is made where an outflow of resources is considered probable and
Loans 17,137 2,802 2,422 1,499 10,414
a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute
Interest on loans 8,510 555 985 956 6,014
and this is included in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other
Finance lease obligations 66 23 35 3 5
provisions’.
Finance lease charges 12 2 3 2 5
We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes when an
Operating lease
outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate
commitments 1,045 186 271 201 387
of the outflow may be made. At 31 December 2017, other than for
Intangible assets 5,254 205 546 750 3,753 those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible
Property, plant & equipment 584 527 51 6 – to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might
Investments 107 34 47 26 – be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an
Purchase commitments 346 284 23 17 22 outflow was more than remote.
Pensions 738 123 246 246 123 The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from the
Other commitments 38 18 20 – – amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
Total 33,837 4,759 4,649 3,706 20,723 proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. This
is discussed further in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on loans
257 to 266 and Notes 14 and 45 to the financial statements,
are disclosed before taking into account the effect of derivatives.
‘Taxation’ and ‘Legal proceedings’.76
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also Pharmaceuticals business, including Puerto Rico, is as follows:
with IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies
2017 2016 2015
approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial
Margin Margin Margin
statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. £m % £m % £m %
Gross turnover 16,365 100 13,363 100 10,093 100
We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported
Market driven
in the financial statements. Actual amounts and results could differ segments (4,058) (25) (2,749) (21) (1,761) (17)
from those estimates.
Government
The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas: mandated and
state programs (3,938) (24) (3,070) (23) (2,357) (23)
– Turnover
Cash discounts (330) (2) (261) (2) (192) (2)
– Taxation (Note 14) Customer returns (97) (1) (98) (1) (93) (1)
– Legal and other disputes (Notes 29 and 45) Prior year adjustments 86 1 109 1 142 1
– Intangible asset impairments (Note 19) Other items (460) (3) (457) (3) (298) (3)
– Business combinations (Note 38) Total deductions (8,797) (54) (6,526) (49) (4,559) (45)
Net turnover 7,568 46 6,837 51 5,534 55
– Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 28).
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas Market driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and
is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting Medicare plans with which GSK negotiates contract pricing that
judgements and estimates’. is honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments
consist primarily of Medicaid and Federal Government programmes
Turnover
which receive government mandated pricing via rebates and
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business
chargebacks.
is US Pharmaceuticals, and the US market has the most complex
arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances. The following The increased deductions in the market driven segments of the
briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in existence in our gross turnover to net turnover reconciliation primarily reflected
US Pharmaceuticals business: higher rebates and chargebacks on Respiratory products, and
on Advair in particular. During 2017, Advair accounted for 21%
– We have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby
of US Pharmaceuticals turnover and approximately 40% of the total
the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at reduced
deduction for rebates and returns, and the Respiratory portfolio as
prices. A chargeback represents the difference between the
a whole accounted for approximately 82% of the total deduction
invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect customer’s
in the year. Advair continued to suffer pricing pressures in 2017
contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating chargebacks
as the business sought to transition its Respiratory portfolio to
are calculated based on the terms of each agreement, historical
newer products.
experience and product growth rates
The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances
– Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and Group
and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses
Purchasing Organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect
are managed on a combined basis. At 31 December 2017, the
customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve
total accrual amounted to £2,837 million (2016 – £2,218 million).
certain performance targets relating to the value of product
purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market shares A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates is wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses
estimated based on the specific terms in each agreement, gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party
historical experience and product growth rates data sources and information received from key wholesalers. The
– The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level from year
providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients. In to year based on the pattern of consumption.
1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels at
reduce State and Federal expenditure on prescription drugs. In wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December 2017
2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became law. were estimated to amount to approximately four weeks of turnover.
We participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for Medicaid This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy of which
rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of the relevant cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently reliable for
regulations or the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act this purpose.
– Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience
– We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced,
together with market related information such as stock levels at
wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.77
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Critical accounting policies continued
Legal and other disputes Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with various
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes, complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, as well as
the following briefly describes the process by which we determine investigations of its operations conducted by various governmental
the level of provision that is necessary. regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the General Counsel of
the Group, as head of the Group’s legal function, and the Senior
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
Vice President and Head of Global Litigation for the Group, who is
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for
responsible for all litigation and government investigations, routinely
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is
brief the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of the
Board of Directors on the significant litigation pending against the
likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising
Group and governmental investigations of the Group.
from claims against the Group. We may become involved in
significant legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant litigation
to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, and government investigations and review matters such as the number
that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these of claims notified to us, information on potential claims not yet notified,
cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included assessment of the validity of claims, progress made in settling claims,
in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made. recent settlement levels and potential reimbursement by insurers.
This position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not there
assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal is sufficient information available for us to be able to make a reliable
proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the amount of the estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes. Often, external
provisions reported in the Group’s financial statements. counsel assisting us with various litigation matters and investigations
will also assist in the briefing of the Board and senior management.
Following these discussions, for those matters where it is possible
to make a reliable estimate of the amount of a provision, if any, that
may be required, the level of provision for legal and other disputes is
reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. These matters are discussed
further in Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Treasury policies
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash flows. Capital management
The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the Group’s external Our financial strategy, implemented through the Group’s Financial
and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of architecture, supports GSK’s strategic priorities and it is regularly
our strategic objectives. GSK operates on a global basis, primarily reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital structure of the
through subsidiary companies, and we manage our capital to ensure Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity.
that our subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to
GSK’s long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A+
optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance
(stable outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’)
of debt and equity. Treasury activities are governed by policies
is A2 (stable outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1
approved annually by the Board of Directors, and most recently
with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
on 20 July 2017. A Treasury Management Group (TMG) meeting,
chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a regular Liquidity risk management
basis to review treasury activities. Its members receive management Our policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated funding
information relating to these activities. requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding requirements are
monitored by the TMG on a regular basis. Our strategy is to diversify
Treasury operations
liquidity sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad
The objective of our Treasury activity is to minimise the post-tax net
access to financial markets.
cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility in order to benefit
earnings and cash flows. We use a variety of financial instruments to Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries
finance our operations and derivative financial instruments to manage to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
market risks from these operations. These derivatives, principally
Interest rate risk management
comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts
Our objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
and swaps, are used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into
to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
currencies required for Group purposes and to manage exposure
time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
to financial risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and
of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
interest rates.
operating profit.
We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes
and GSK’s Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity.
All transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to
manage the risks arising from underlying business activities.78
GSK Annual Report 2017
Group financial review continued
Treasury policies continued
Foreign exchange risk management Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external trade that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated
flows are not normally hedged. Foreign currency transaction as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major
exposures arising on internal trade flows are selectively hedged. currencies are also used to reduce exposure to the Group’s
Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating investment in overseas Group assets. The TMG reviews the
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies regularly.
with local currency costs where possible. GSK’s internal trading
Counterparty risk management
transactions are matched centrally and we manage inter-company
payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
cash flows can be hedged selectively under the management of investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
Treasury and the TMG. These include hedges of the foreign Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Treasury’s usage of these limits
exchange risk arising from acquisitions and disposals of assets. is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO) who
Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing operates independently of Treasury. Any breach of these limits would
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward be reported to the CFO immediately.
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and,
currency. when changes in ratings occur, notifies Treasury so that changes
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek can be made to investment levels or to authority limits as appropriate.
to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are reviewed
and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US Dollars, regularly and a report is presented annually to the TMG for approval.
Euros and Sterling. Borrowings can be swapped into other
currencies as required.
Strategic report
The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on
12 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by:
Simon Dingemans
Chief Financial Officer
12 March 20187799
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Corporate
Governance
In this section
Chairman’s Governance statement 80
Our Board 82
Our Corporate Executive Team 86
Leadership and effectiveness 88
Nominations Committee report 94
Accountability 96
Audit & Risk Committee report 96
Relations with stakeholders 107
Engagement activities 107
Science Committee report 109
Corporate Responsibility Committee report 110
Directors’ report 11280
GSK Annual Report 2017
Chairman’s Governance statement
Dear Shareholder CEO transition
I am pleased to present our Corporate In the period before she formally took
Governance report for 2017. up the reins as CEO in April, Emma was
working on how she would evolve the
Governance, strategy and long-term
company’s strategy with support and
value creation
guidance from the Board. She met with
The Board remains committed to achieving
each Board director to solicit their views
the highest standards of corporate
on the company, as well as meeting with
governance and integrity. Our governance
employees at all levels of the business,
structure operates from the Board across
external advisers and commentators to gain
the Group and we believe it is critical in
“Emma Walmsley and the underpinning our ability to deliver our a wide view. She shaped her thinking with
the Board as it evolved. Our Non-Executive
strategy to create long-term value and
CET plan to ensure that Directors were fully engaged in this process.
benefit for our shareholders and
Emma utilised the diverse expertise around
the company’s culture stakeholders. Our investors are also
the boardroom table to test and shape the
telling us that there has never been a
and values are consistent detail of her proposals. In particular, the
greater need for companies to combine
Board and its Committees provided Emma
with our strategy and obligations to society with delivery of our
and the management team with continuous
financial performance.
performance objectives.” feedback and challenge. This review
The following pages set out details on the culminated in a discussion at a joint strategy
composition of our Board, its corporate meeting with the full Corporate Executive
governance arrangements, processes and Team (CET) in June at which the proposed
activities during 2017, together with reports Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities
from each of the Board’s Committees, were scrutinised ahead of Board approval
including the new Science Committee. in July.
Last year we reported on the Board’s Emma and the CET then laid out at the
work on CEO and executive management Investor Update in July, how Innovation,
succession. In 2017, the Board’s focus was Performance and Trust would provide a
in supporting Emma Walmsley’s transition platform for growth from 2020 and beyond.
into her new role and conducting a detailed She also re-affirmed the commitment to the
review of the company’s strategy with three-business structure, subject to certain
management. conditions which would continue to be
reviewed periodically. This commitment
was tested by the Board at the joint strategy
session in June. In terms of continuing Board
oversight of the Innovation, Performance and
Trust priorities, all Board papers have been
re-shaped to align with the new business
priorities. In addition, the CEO’s report
includes Innovation, Performance and Trust
performance indicators. Our annual strategy
meetings will enable the Board to consider
the progress and effectiveness of our
business priorities in delivering long-term
value to investors.81
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Aligning strategy and culture Board evaluation The Government’s corporate governance
A healthy culture is a vital tool in unlocking This was an appropriate time in the Board’s reform legislation and the new Code are
and protecting value and the biggest evolution to carry out an external Board expected to be effective from 2019 financial
driver of our culture is the leadership of our evaluation and the CEO, our Senior years. I look forward to providing an update
company. Emma Walmsley and the CET Independent Non-Executive Director and on how our arrangements measure up to
plan to ensure that the company’s culture I therefore chose to appoint a new external these new requirements in next year’s report.
and values are consistent with our strategy Board evaluator for this review to bring a
UK Corporate Governance Code
and performance objectives. When the fresh perspective. Details of the externally
compliance
Board reviewed her proposed strategy, facilitated review and its conclusions are
I am pleased to report that we were in full
culture featured heavily in the discussions. set out on pages 92 to 93.
compliance with the requirements of the
The Board approved a move to a high-
Corporate Governance reform FRC’s UK Corporate Governance Code
performance, values-based culture
The Board has taken a close interest in the (Code) and a copy of the Code is available
where the new expectations of Courage,
UK Government’s development of a package on www.frc.org.uk.
Accountability, Development and Teamwork
of legislative and best practice measures
guide employee behavior. The Board I commend this report to all of our
and supports initiatives that raise the bar
received a report on management’s shareholders.
on corporate governance practices and
commitments and initiatives as a
effectiveness.
modern employer.
As part of this reform drive, the Financial
The CET held a leadership conference in
Reporting Council (FRC) has recently
October for the company’s top 600 leaders,
consulted on its proposals for a revised
which I and other Non-Executive Directors
UK Corporate Governance Code. We have Philip Hampton
attended. This was critical to transfer
submitted our views. I am pleased to note Chairman
ownership of our strategy and culture to
that the FRC has included new measures
our leaders and on into the company. We 12 March 2018
to encourage companies to take steps to
are now measuring progress in implementing
align their strategy and culture and promote
our priorities and monitoring aspects of our
effective engagement with their workforce
culture twice a year through an all-employee
and wider stakeholders, issues that I have
survey. This survey measures engagement,
described earlier in relation to the approach
progress on our Innovation, Performance
of our own Board.
and Trust priorities, our values and
expectations. Emma reports progress
to the Board regularly on culture.
Further details on the company’s
commitment to being a modern employer
and driving high levels of employee
engagement as part of our Trust agenda
are set out on pages 48 and 49 of the
Strategic report.82
GSK Annual Report 2017
Our Board
Board composition
CCoommpopsiotiosnition TTeenunrue rNeo nN-Eoxnec-uEtixveecutive
1 1
4
3
2
Philip Hampton 64
Non-Executive Chairman
2
1A. Esx eact u1t iAvepril 2018 38% 1A. Usp a tto 1 3 A yperairl s2018 62%
21. N. oEnx-eEcxuetcivueti ve 62% 25% 21. 3. -U6 py etoar 3s years 25% 45% N
2. Non-Executive 75% 32. 7. -39 -y6e ayersars 0% 33%
Nationality
43. O. v7e-r9 9 y eyeaarsrs 13% 11%
British
4. Over 9 years 11%
Appointed
1 January 2015. Deputy Chairman
Gender diversity from 1 April 2015 and Non-Executive
Chairman from 7 May 2015
Board
As at date of publication As at 1 April 2018 Skills and experience
Prior to joining GSK, Philip
Male 62% Male 58% chaired major FTSE 100 companies,
including The Royal Bank of
Female 38% Female 42% Scotland Group plc and J Sainsbury
plc. He has also served as Group
Finance Director at Lloyds TSB
Group, BT Group plc, BG Group
Executive
plc, British Gas plc and British
As at date of publication As at 1 April 2018 Steel plc. Philip was previously
Male 75% Male 67% appointed an Executive Director
of Lazards and a Non-Executive
Director of RMC Group Plc and
Female 25% Female 33%
Belgacom SA. Until 2009, he
was Chairman of UK Financial
Investments Limited, which
manages the UK Government’s
Non-Executive
shareholdings in banks.
As at date of publication As at 1 April 2018
Male 56% Male 56% External appointments
Philip is the Senior Independent
Director of Anglo American Plc,
Female 44% Female 44%
Chairman of its Remuneration
Committee and a member of its
Audit Committee. Philip is also Chair
of the Hampton-Alexander Review
International experience on FTSE Women Leaders, an
International experience independent review on improving
As at 1 April 2018
gender balance in FTSE leadership.
Global US Europe EMAP
75% 100% 92% 67%83
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Emma Walmsley 48 Simon Dingemans 54 Dr Hal Barron 55 Dr Patrick Vallance 58
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Scientific Officer and Outgoing President, R&D
President, R&D
Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality
British British American British
Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed
1 January 2017. Chief Executive 4 January 2011. Chief Financial 1 January 2018 1 January 2017
Officer from 1 April 2017 Officer from 1 April 2011
Skills and experience Skills and experience
Skills and experience Skills and experience Hal was President R&D at Calico Patrick joined GSK in 2006 as
Emma joined GSK in 2010 with Prior to joining GSK, Simon had LLC (California Life Company), an Head of Drug Discovery and was
responsibility for Consumer over 25 years of experience in Alphabet-funded company that uses subsequently appointed Senior
Healthcare, Europe and was investment banking at SG Warburg advanced technologies to increase Vice President, Medicines Discovery
subsequently appointed President and Goldman Sachs. Simon advised understanding of lifespan biology. and Development. He has been
of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer GSK for over a decade before his Prior to joining Calico, Hal was a member of GSK’s Corporate
Healthcare in October 2011. appointment and was closely Executive Vice President, Head of Executive Team since 2010 and was
She has been a member of GSK’s involved in a number of GSK’s Global Product Development, and appointed President, R&D in January
Corporate Executive Team since key strategic projects. Simon was Chief Medical Officer of Roche, 2012. Patrick joined the GSK Board
2011 and was appointed CEO of previously Chairman of the 100 responsible for all the products in on 1 January 2017.
GSK Consumer Healthcare, a joint Group of Finance Directors. the combined portfolio of Roche
Prior to joining GSK, Patrick was a
venture between GSK and Novartis, and Genentech. At Genentech,
clinical academic and, as Professor
from its creation in March 2015 External appointments he was Senior Vice President of
of Medicine, led the Division of
until her appointment as GSK CEO None Development and Chief Medical
Medicine at University College
Designate in September 2016. Officer. Hal was a Non-Executive
London. He has over 20 years’
Emma joined the GSK Board on Director and Chair of The Science
experience of research clinical
1 January 2017 and succeeded & Technology Committee at Juno
medicine, general internal medicine,
Sir Andrew Witty as GSK CEO Therapeutics, Inc.
cardiovascular medicine and clinical
on 1 April 2017.
pharmacology. He was elected to
External appointments
Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked the Academy of Medical Sciences
Hal is Associate Adjunct Professor,
with L’Oreal for 17 years where in 1999. Patrick was previously a
Epidemiology & Biostatistics,
she held a variety of marketing and Non-Executive Director of UK
University of California, San
general management roles in Paris, Biobank Limited and Genome
Francisco.
London and New York. From 2007, Research Limited.
she was based in Shanghai as
General Manager, Consumer External appointments
Products for L’Oreal China. Emma Patrick stepped down as President,
was a Non-Executive Director of R&D at the end of 2017 and will
Diageo plc from 1 January to 21 step down as an Executive Director
September 2016. She holds an MA with effect from 31 March 2018 to
in Classics and Modern Languages become the UK Government’s Chief
from Oxford University. Scientific Adviser and Head of the
Government’s Office for Science.
External appointments
None
Key
Committee Chair N Nominations
A Audit & Risk
R Remuneration
S Science
C Corporate Responsibility84
GSK Annual Report 2017
Our Board continued
Manvinder Singh (Vindi) Banga 63 Professor Sir Roy Anderson 70 Dr Vivienne Cox 58 Lynn Elsenhans 61
Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive
Non-Executive Director Director & Scientific and Director Director
Medical Expert
N A R N S C R C C N A
Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality
Indian British British American
Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed
1 September 2015 and as Senior 1 October 2007 1 July 2016 1 July 2012
Independent Non-Executive Director
from 5 May 2016 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience
Professor Sir Roy is a world- Vivienne has wide experience of Lynn has a wealth of experience
Skills and experience renowned medical scientist with business gained in the energy, of running a global business and
Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent advanced knowledge of infectious natural resources and publishing significant knowledge of the global
33 years at Unilever plc, where his disease epidemiology, and is sectors. She also has a deep markets in which GSK operates.
last role (amongst several senior currently Professor of Infectious understanding of regulatory and She served as Chair, President and
positions) was President of the Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, government relationships. She Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco
Global Foods, Home and Personal Imperial College, London. He is worked for BP plc for 28 years, Inc from 2009 to 2012. Prior to
Care businesses, and he was a a Fellow of the Royal Society, the in Britain and continental Europe, joining Sunoco in 2008 as President
member of the Unilever Executive Academy of Medical Sciences and in posts including Executive Vice and Chief Executive Officer, Lynn
Board. Vindi sat on the Prime the Royal Statistical Society. He is President and Chief Executive of worked for Royal Dutch Shell,
Minister of India’s Council of Trade an Honorary Fellow of the Institute BP’s gas, power and renewable which she joined in 1980, and where
& Industry from 2004 to 2014, of Actuaries and a Foreign Associate business and its alternative energy she held a number of senior roles,
and was on the Board of Governors Member of the National Academy unit. Vivienne was previously a including Executive Vice President,
of the Indian Institute of Management of Medicine at the US National Non-Executive Director of BG Global Manufacturing from 2005
(IIM), Ahmedabad. Vindi is also the Academy of Sciences and the French Group plc and Rio Tinto plc and to 2008. Lynn was previously a
recipient of the Padma Bhushan, Academy of Sciences. Professor Sir Lead Independent Director at the Non-Executive Director of Flowserve
one of India’s highest civilian Roy brings scientific expertise to the UK Government’s Department for Corporation and The First Tee of
honours. Between 2015 and 2016, Board’s deliberations. International Development. Vivienne Greater Houston.
Vindi was a Non-Executive Director was appointed Commander of the
of Thomson Reuters Corp and a External appointments Order of the British Empire in the External appointments
member of its HR committee. Vindi Professor Sir Roy is a member of 2016 New Year Honours for Lynn is a Non-Executive Director
was also previously Chairman of the the Holdingham International services to the UK Economy of Baker Hughes, a GE company,
Supervisory Board of Mauser Group. Advisory Board and a member of and Sustainability. and Chair of its Audit Committee,
the Science Advisory Board of the and a Director of the Texas Medical
External appointments Natural History Museum, London. External appointments Center. She is also a Trustee of the
Vindi is a Partner at private equity He is also a member of the Vaccine Vivienne is Senior Independent United Way of Greater Houston.
investment firm Clayton Dubilier International Advisory Board Director of Pearson plc, a Non-
& Rice. He is also Chairman of Kalle (VACCIAB) of AJ Pharma Holding Executive Director of Stena AB
GmbH, Senior Independent Director Sdn. Bhd in Malaysia, the and Chairman of the Supervisory
of Marks & Spencer Group plc, International Alzheimer’s Consortium Board of Vallourec, a supplier to
a member of its Nomination at Harvard University, Boston, the energy industry.
Committee and Chairman of its Chairman of the Scientific Advisory
Remuneration Committee. Vindi Board of the Netherlands Centre for
is a Non-Executive Director of the One Health (NCOH) and Chairman
Confederation of British Industry of Oriole Global Health Ltd.
(CBI), a Director of High Ridge
Brands Co, a member of the
Holdingham International Advisory
Board and Chair of the Board of
Trustees of Marie Curie. He is also
on the Governing Board of the
Indian School of Business (ISB),
Hyderabad, and is a member of
the Indo UK CEO Forum.85
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Dr Laurie Glimcher 66 Dr Jesse Goodman 66 Judy Lewent 69 Urs Rohner 58
Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive
Director & Scientific and Director & Scientific and Director Director
Medical Expert Medical Expert
A S S C A N R S R N
Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality
American American American Swiss
Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed
1 September 2017 1 January 2016 1 April 2011 1 January 2015
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience
Laurie is currently Professor of Jesse previously served in senior Judy has extensive knowledge of the Urs has a broad range of business
Medicine at Harvard Medical School leadership positions at the global pharmaceutical industry and and legal experience having served
and is CEO, President and an US Food and Drug Administration of corporate finance, having joined as Chairman on a number of Boards,
Attending Physician at the Dana- (FDA), including most recently as the Merck & Co in 1980 and then served most recently for Credit Suisse,
Farber Cancer Institute. FDA’s Chief Scientist and previously as its Chief Financial Officer from a world-leading financial services
as Deputy Commissioner for 1990 to 2007 when she retired. company. Prior to joining Credit
In addition to a number of senior
Science and Public Health and as Judy previously served as a Suisse in 2004, Urs served as
leadership positions held at both
Director of the Center for Biologics Non-Executive Director of Dell Chairman of the Executive Board
Harvard Medical School and
Evaluation and Research (CBER). Inc, Quaker Oats Company and and CEO of ProSieben and
Harvard School of Public Health,
Motorola Inc. ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This
Laurie has also served as Stephen Jesse played a leadership role
followed a number of years in
and Suzanne Weiss Dean and in developing the FDA’s The Board has determined that
private practice at major law firms in
Professor of Medicine at Weill Regulatory Science and Medical Judy has recent and relevant
Switzerland and the US, having been
Cornell Medical College and as an Countermeasures Initiatives and financial experience, and agreed
admitted to the bars of the canton
Attending Physician at the New York has worked collaboratively with that she has the appropriate
of Zurich in Switzerland in 1986 and
Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell industry, academia, government and qualifications and background to be
the state of New York in the US in
Medical Center. Laurie stepped global public health and regulatory an audit committee financial expert.
1990.
down from the Board of Bristol- partners to prepare for and respond
Myers Squibb Co (BMS) in 2017 to major public health threats, External appointments External appointments
after serving for 20 years on its including emerging infectious Judy is a Non-Executive Director
Urs is currently Chairman of the
Board. Laurie brings scientific and diseases, disasters and terrorism. of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc
Board of Credit Suisse Group
public health expertise to the Board’s He led the FDA’s response to West and Motorola Solutions Inc. She
AG and of its Chairman’s and
deliberations. Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1 is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller
Governance Committee. He is
influenza pandemic and served on Family Trust, a life member of
also Chairman and member of the
External appointments the Senior Leadership Team for the Massachusetts Institute of
Board of Trustees of Credit Suisse
Laurie is a member of the US the 2010 White House Medical Technology Corporation, a member
Research Institute and Credit Suisse
National Academy of Sciences and Countermeasure Review. Jesse of the American Academy of Arts
Foundation. Urs was appointed
the National Academy of Medicine. brings scientific and public health and Sciences and a member of
Vice-Chairman of the Governing
She is a member of the Scientific expertise to the Board’s the Business Advisory Board of
Board of the Swiss Bankers
Steering Committee of the Parker deliberations. twoXAR.
Association in 2015.
Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy
and a Non-Executive Director of the External appointments
Waters Corporation, where she also Jesse, currently Professor of
serves on its Corporate Governance Medicine at Georgetown University,
Committee. In addition, Laurie is directs the Georgetown University
co-founder and Chair of the Center on Medical Product Access,
Scientific Advisory Board of Quentis Safety and Stewardship
Therapeutics Inc and a Scientific (COMPASS) and is an active
Advisory Board member of Repare clinician who serves as Attending
Therapeutics Inc and the American Physician in Infectious Diseases.
Asthma Foundation. He also serves as President and
Member of the Board of the United Key
States Pharmacopeia (USP) and as
a member of the Regulatory Working Committee Chair N Nominations
Group of the Coalition for Epidemic
Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). A Audit & Risk
R Remuneration
S Science
C Corporate Responsibility86
GSK Annual Report 2017
Our Corporate Executive Team
1
Roger Connor Luc Debruyne
2 President, Global Manufacturing & Supply President, Global Vaccines
Roger joined CET in 2012 and was appointed Luc joined CET in 2016 as President,
President, Global Manufacturing & Supply Global Vaccines, a role he has held since 2013.
in 2013, after working for a year as President He joined GSK in 1991 as a commercial strategy
Designate. Prior to this, he was Vice President, director in R&D, before leading the European
Office of the CEO and Corporate Strategy. Commercial Centre of Excellence. In 2006,
Roger joined GSK in 1998 from AstraZeneca. Luc became General Manager in the Netherlands
and then in 2010 Senior Vice President and
He was appointed to the Board of GSK
3 Consumer Healthcare, our joint venture General Manager in Italy. In 2012, he was
appointed Senior Vice President, Pharma Europe,
with Novartis, in April 2017.
prior to his current role. Luc is a member of the
Roger holds a degree in Mechanical and International Federation of Pharmaceutical
Manufacturing Engineering from Queen’s Manufacturers & Associations Vaccines CEO
University Belfast and a Masters in Manufacturing Roundtable and the Management Committee
Leadership from Cambridge University. of the Belgian Federation of Enterprises.
He is a Chartered Accountant.
He holds a Master’s degree in Physical Education
from University of Leuven.
4
1. Emma Walmsley
Chief Executive Officer
2. Simon Dingemans
Nick Hirons Brian McNamara
Chief Financial Officer
Senior Vice President, Global Ethics CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare
3. Dr Hal Barron and Compliance
Chief Scientific Officer
and President, R&D Nick was appointed to CET in 2014 as Senior Brian joined CET in 2016, when he was
Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance, appointed CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare.
4. Dr Patrick Vallance responsible for compliance, risk management, He joined GSK in 2015 as Head of Europe
Outgoing President, R&D corporate security and investigations. and Americas for GSK Consumer Healthcare,
following the creation of a joint venture between
Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an International
GSK and Novartis. Previously, he was head
> For biographical details, Auditor. He was later Head of Audit & Assurance,
see page 83. where he combined five audit functions into an of Novartis’s OTC division. Brian began his
career at Procter and Gamble.
independent team with a common risk-based
methodology. In 2013, Nick relocated to China He is Chairman of the World Self-Medication
to establish a governance model for our China Industry Association.
business that created a consistent approach
He earned an undergraduate degree in
to compliance.
Electrical Engineering from Union College
Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute in New York and an MBA in Finance from
of Management Accountants. the University of Cincinnati.
Abbas Hussain was a member of
CET before leaving the company
on 31 July 2017.87
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Luke Miels David Redfern Karenann Terrell
President, Global Pharmaceuticals Chief Strategy Officer Chief Digital & Technology Officer
Luke joined GSK and CET in September David joined CET as Chief Strategy Officer Karenann joined GSK and CET in September
2017 as President, Global Pharmaceuticals in 2008 and is responsible for corporate 2017 as Chief Digital & Technology Officer,
responsible for our commercial portfolio of development and strategic planning. Previously, responsible for our technology, digital, data
medicines and vaccines. he was Senior Vice President, Northern Europe and analytics strategy.
with responsibility for GSK’s pharmaceutical
Previously, he worked for AstraZeneca as Previously, she worked for Walmart as Chief
businesses in that region and, prior to that, was
Executive Vice President of their European Information Officer. Prior to this, she was at
Senior Vice President for Central and Eastern
business and, prior to that, Executive Vice Baxter International, where she was Chief
Europe. David joined GSK in 1994.
President of Global Product and Portfolio Information Officer, and before that Daimler
Strategy, Global Medical Affairs and Corporate He was appointed Chairman of the Board of Chrysler Corporation. Karenann began her
Affairs. Before then, he held roles of increasing ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a Non- career in General Motors.
seniority at Roche and Sanofi-Aventis. Executive Director of the Aspen Pharmacare
Karenann is a member of the board of trustees
Holdings Limited Board in 2015.
He holds a Bachelor of Science degree in for the New York Hall of Science and in 2017
Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and David has a Bachelor of Science degree from she became a Non-Executive Director of
an MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney. Bristol University in the UK and is a Chartered Pluralsight LLC.
Accountant.
She earned graduate and post-graduate degrees
in Electrical Engineering from Kettering and
Purdue Universities respectively.
Claire Thomas Phil Thomson Dan Troy
Senior Vice President, Human Resources President, Global Affairs Senior Vice President & General Counsel
Claire was appointed to CET as Senior Vice Phil joined CET in 2011. He was appointed Dan joined GSK and CET as Senior Vice
President, Human Resources in 2008. President, Global Affairs in April 2017, with President & General Counsel in 2008.
specific responsibilities for the Group’s strategic
Claire joined the company in 1996 as Senior He was previously a Partner at the Washington
approach to Reputation, Corporate Responsibility,
Manager, Human Resources, Sales and Marketing law firm Sidley Austin LLP, where he principally
Global Health, China and Britain’s withdrawal from
Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before becoming represented pharmaceutical companies and trade
the European Union. He is responsible for our
Director of Human Resources for UK associations on matters related to the US Food
engagement with investors, media, government,
Pharmaceuticals in 1997. She was appointed and Drug Administration (FDA) and government
key global community partners and employees.
Senior Vice President, Human Resources, regulations. Dan was formerly Chief Counsel for
Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, and Previously, he was Senior Vice President, the FDA.
Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Government Affairs.
Dan holds a B.S. in Industrial and Labor Relations
Pharmaceuticals International in 2006. He joined GSK as a commercial trainee
from Cornell University and a J.D. from Columbia
in 1996.
Prior to GSK, she worked for Ford Motor University School of Law. He chairs the US
Company, holding various positions in Phil is Chairman of The Whitehall & Industry Chamber of Commerce Litigation Center and
Human Resources. Group and a Board Member of the China-Britain is a member of the American Law Institute.
Business Council.
Claire has a Bachelor of Science degree It was announced in January 2018 that Dan Troy
in Economics, Management and Industrial He earned his degree in English, History and will leave GSK at a later date in 2018 when his
Relations from the University of Wales. Russian Studies from Durham University. role relocates to the UK.88
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance continued
Leadership and effectiveness
Corporate governance framework
The Board has established a corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities. The framework is
designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and to provide a platform to realise the Group’s strategy through GSK’s
new Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities. Our internal control and risk management arrangements, described on pages 20 to 21
and 105 and 106, are an integral part of GSK’s governance framework.
For the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established as set out below.
Board
Chief Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Corporate
Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility
Officer Committee
Corporate
Executive > Read more on > Read more on > Read more on > Read more on > Read more on
Team page 94 page 96 page 114 page 109 page 110
See www.gsk.com for terms of reference for each Board Committee.
Scheduled Board and Committee attendance during 2017
Corporate
Board Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Responsibility
Total number of scheduled meetings 6 6 6 5 4 4
Members Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended
Philip Hampton 6 6
Emma Walmsley 6
Simon Dingemans 6
Dr Patrick Vallance 6
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 4 4
Vindi Banga 6 6 6 5
Dr Vivienne Cox 5 4 4
Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 4
Dr Laurie Glimcher
Appointed on 1 September 2017 2 (2) 2 (2) 2 (2)
Dr Jesse Goodman 6 4 3
Judy Lewent 6 6 6 5 4
Urs Rohner 6 5
Sir Andrew Witty
Retired on 31 March 2017 2 (2)
Dr Moncef Slaoui
Retired on 31 March 2017 2 (2)
Total number of ad-hoc meetings 10 1 4 7 0 0
For Directors who served for part of the year, the numbers in brackets denote the number of meetings the Directors were eligible to attend.
> See the Committee Reports for other attendees at Committee meetings, such as the Chairman, CEO and other Executive Directors, and the work of the Committees
during the year. These reports are included later in the Corporate Governance Report.89
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2017 Board programme
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company and has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for ensuring
that the Group is appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets. In the performance of these duties, it has regard to
the interests of other key stakeholders and is cognisant of the potential impact of the decisions it makes. The Board discharges those
responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings and during the year it focused on a number of specific areas outlined in the table,
in line with its new long-term priorities of Innovation, Performance and Trust.
In addition, during the year the CEO met with Non-Executive Directors to discuss various matters, including the evolution of her thinking on
the company’s strategy, succession planning and the ongoing SFO investigation.
Areas of focus Long-term priorities link
Strategy The Board’s oversight of the execution of our strategy included:
– Receiving and discussing reports from our principal three businesses, Pharma, Vaccines and Consumer
– Briefings on products. In particular, the Board was keen to oversee launch plans for the Shingrix vaccine,
Trelegy Ellipta and Nucala products. It also reviewed the background to the withdrawal of Tanzeum
– A joint Board and Corporate Executive Committee strategy day was held to discuss the new Innovation,
Performance and Trust priorities against external landscape changes, business performance, competitors
and governance arrangements
– The evolution of our approach and changes to medical engagement with key external experts
– Conducting a deep dive on the Group’s business strategy in China
– Receiving and discussing reports on our pensions, insurance, tax and treasury strategies.
Performance The Board’s focus on performance included:
– Setting the new CEO’s objectives
– Setting, reviewing and agreeing the annual budget and forward looking three year plan
– Receiving reports from the CEO on our principal three businesses
– Scrutinising the Group’s financial performance
– Reviewing Brexit impacts and planning arrangements
– Reviewing progress of the pipeline.
Governance The Board’s approach to discharging its corporate governance duties included:
– Receiving reports from Board Committees
– Approving the 2016 Annual Report
– Reviewing AGM preparation and approving the 2017 Notice of AGM
– Considering observations and agreeing actions from the internal evaluation of the Board’s performance
– Receiving reports on corporate governance and regulatory developments
– Undertaking training on GSK’s Code of Conduct
– Approving the appointment of a new Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D and a new Non-Executive
Director and Scientific & Medical Expert.
Cultural The Head of HR briefed the Board on:
transformation
– Aligning GSK’s culture and values to support our strategy and long-term priorities.
Link to long-term priorities
Innovation Performance Trust90
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance: Leadership and effectiveness continued
Key Board roles and responsibilities
Leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge
Chairman Non-Executive Directors
Philip Hampton
– Provide a strong independent element to the Board
– Leads and manages the business of the Board – Constructively support and challenge management
– Provides direction and focus and scrutinise their performance in meeting agreed
– Ensures clear structure for effective operation of the deliverables
Board and its Committees – Shape proposals on strategy and management
– Sets Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is – Each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms
allocated to promote effective debate to support sound and conditions of their directorship
decision making – Devote such time as is necessary to the proper
– Ensures the Board receives precise, timely and clear performance of their duties
information – Are expected to attend all meetings required.
– Meets with each Non-Executive Director on an annual
Independence statement
basis to discuss individual contributions and performance,
together with training and development needs The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors
– Shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the Board who are identified on pages 84 to 85 to be independent.
evaluation process This includes Professor Sir Roy Anderson, with tenure
– Meets with all the Non-Executive Directors independently of more than nine years. They each demonstrate an
of the Executive Directors appropriate degree of independence in character and
– Leads discussions with shareholders to whom he is judgement and are free from any business or other
responsible for the Group’s performance. relationship which could materially interfere with the
exercise of their judgement. The independence and
The Chairman’s role description is available on www.gsk.com
commitment of Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Judy
Lewent, who have served on the Board for over six years,
Chief Executive Officer has been subjected to a rigorous review.
Emma Walmsley
– Is responsible for the management of the Group and its Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
three businesses Vindi Banga
– Develops the Group’s strategic direction for consideration
and approval by the Board – Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted
intermediary for other Directors
– Implements the agreed strategy
– Is supported by members of the Corporate Executive – Together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the
Team. annual review of the Chairman’s performance, taking into
account views of the Executive Directors
The Chief Executive Officer’s role description is available on www.gsk.com – Discusses the results of the Chairman’s effectiveness
review with the Chairman
– Leads the search and appointment process and
recommendation to the Board of a new Chairman
– Acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders
– In doing so, maintains an understanding of the issues and
concerns of major shareholders through briefings from the
Investor Relations team and the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role description is available
on www.gsk.com
Company Secretary – Secretary to the Board and all Board Committees
Victoria Whyte – Supports the Board and Committee Chairs in annual agenda plan setting
– Ensures information is made available to the Board members in a timely fashion
– Supports the Chairman in designing and delivering Board inductions
– Coordinates ongoing business awareness and training requirements for the Non-Executive Directors
– Undertakes internal Board and Committee evaluations at the request of the Chairman
– Advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures and corporate governance matters
– Chairs the Group’s Disclosure Committee
– Is a point of contact for shareholders on corporate governance matters.91
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Board induction and development
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing and New Corporate Executive Team (CET) members meet with Board
facilitating individual induction programmes for new Directors. members as part of their induction, and to ensure the Board
They are designed with the purpose of orientating and familiarising maintains its connections with the CET.
new Directors with our industry, organisation, governance and our
During 2017, Dr Laurie Glimcher, a new US-based Science
strategy and Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities.
and Medical Expert, and in January 2018, Dr Hal Barron, a highly
Each new Director receives a general induction. A personalised experienced R&D leader, joined the Board. Their customised
induction is then devised which is individually tailored to each induction programmes are summarised below.
new Director’s background, education, experience and role.
2017 Board induction
General Board induction
Executive Non-Executive All Directors
– Role of an Executive Director – Role of a Non-Executive Director – Director’s duties and responsibilities
– Build relationship with – GSK strategy, competitors and – GSK’s Corporate Governance
Chairman and the Board external environment structure
– Fill any capability gaps – Meet CET members – GSK’s Code of Conduct training
– GSK’s financial structure
Personal Executive Director induction Personal Non-Executive Director induction
Dr Hal Barron Dr Laurie Glimcher
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D Scientific & Medical Expert
– Maximise handover opportunity with the outgoing – R&D and Vaccines deep dives
President, R&D – Briefings on R&D’s key therapy areas
– Detailed review of pipeline assets, including – Site visits to: Ware, Stevenage and Wavre
R&D governance, processes and team, and
– Briefing on US business and commercial model
business development landscape to inform
– Audit & Risk and Science Committee inductions
updated R&D strategy
Board, business and key stakeholder awareness Training
To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain The Chairman meets with each Director annually on a one-to-one
a greater insight and understanding of the business and key basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and development
stakeholders they: requirements. The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory
and governance matters through regular papers and briefings
– are invited to attend internal management meetings, including
from the Company Secretary and presentations by internal and
meetings of the CET
external advisers.
– meet employees informally during visits to the Group’s operations
During 2017, the Board members undertook training on GSK’s
and at receptions held with staff around Board meetings
Code of Conduct.
– receive monthly investor relations and stakeholder reports to
maintain awareness of investor and stakeholder views
– measure progress in implementing our Innovation, Performance
and Trust business priorities and evolving our culture through an
all-employee survey undertaken every six months and through
reports on the regular conversations the CET has directly with
the workforce through the Let’s Talk programme.92
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance: Leadership and effectiveness continued
2017 External evaluation of the Board
The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees every year and the evaluation is facilitated
externally every third year. After a market review, Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation was appointed to independently
facilitate the 2017 Board and Committee evaluation. Neither Ms Hague nor Independent Board Evaluation has any other connection
with the company.
Ms Hague met with the Chairman, Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director (SID),
CEO and the Company Secretary, to
discuss and agree the scope of the
evaluation exercise and the timetable of
activities.
The Secretary provided the evaluation The evaluation team attended the Board
team with access to Board and Committee and Committee meetings held in December
papers and other materials as part of their 2017, to observe Directors and the
preparatory work for the evaluation. operation and dynamics of meetings. See page 93.
Phase one Phase two Phase three Phase four
Phase five
Preparation Interviews Observations Review
Outcomes
During November and December 2017, A report containing the output from the evaluation
Ms Hague conducted detailed interviews and a set of draft conclusions was compiled by
with each Board member. These were Ms Hague, which was discussed initially with the
based on a clear agenda which was sent Chairman, CEO and the SID. A report containing
to each participant in advance. The her findings and recommendations was then
Company Secretary and the Head of presented by Ms Hague to the whole Board at
HR were also interviewed to gain a its main meeting in January 2018.
broader perspective.
Separate reports were compiled for:
– each of the Board Committees, which were
presented to the individual Committee Chairs
first and were then discussed at the respective
Committee meetings in January 2018;
– each individual Board member, which were
presented to and discussed with the Chairman;
and
– the Chairman, which was initially discussed
with the SID. The SID and Ms Hague then
discussed this with the Non-Executive
Directors before the SID discussed it with
the Chairman.93
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2017 External evaluation of the Board continued
2017 Board review feedback and outcomes In response to the report, Board members are highly engaged and
Ms Hague’s report had noted the context in which her 2017 Board committed to the best interests of the company and feel that the
evaluation has been conducted, where there has recently been Board’s work is underpinned by the mechanisms it has established
significant change to the composition of the Board, which is still to support its operations. The Board takes governance very seriously
settling down, including: and has chosen to work further on the following areas:
– a new Chairman appointed in May 2015; – A review of R&D strategy following the appointment of the new
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D.
– the new CEO starting her role in April 2017;
– Enhancing the Board’s focus and decision making by agreeing
– five other members joining the Board within the past three years,
its clear priorities to focus on each year.
some of whom, though experienced in their field, did not have
previous UK listed company experience; and – Succession planning at senior executive and Board level.
– welcoming Dr Barron to the Board in January 2018. – Building Board relationships and culture in line with the CEO’s
culture work across the Group.
Due to the timing of the review, on this occasion the review team
only took input from Board members. In this context, Board members
expressed a broad range of views and, as the Board settles down,
some issues were identified as the focus for an action plan over the
coming year. The Board is strongly supportive of the new CEO.
It was pleased with the ongoing work to strengthen the focus on
science with the new Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D,
Non- Executive Scientific and Medical Experts and the creation of
the Science Committee which is in its formative stages.
2017 Board performance
Progress against the conclusions of the 2016 Board evaluation review, internally facilitated by our Company Secretary, is set out below.
Areas of focus for 2017 Progress/Achievements
– Create more opportunities for deeper During the year, the Board considered a detailed review of the company’s strategy with management in the
strategic discussions, particularly on the context of the operating environment, the company’s culture and industry dynamics in global healthcare.
evolution of the pharmaceuticals industry,
the competitive landscape, therapy areas
and GSK culture and performance.
– Identify ways to further improve the All papers submitted to the Board have been streamlined and re-shaped to align with the new Innovation,
Board’s decision making. Performance and Trust long-term business priorities to allow continuing oversight and more focused
decision-making.
– Further increase Board oversight of Good progress was made in establishing the Science Committee, further details of which can be found in the
science and innovation in collaboration Science Committee report on page 109.
with the new Science Committee.
– Consider how data from the new IT Reporting to the Board has been enhanced in this area within a new Innovation, Performance and Trust
systems can contribute to greater long-term business priorities framework and dashboards aiding the Board’s oversight of the company’s key
understanding and hence help evolve performance indicators.
the business strategy.94
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance: Leadership and effectiveness continued
Nominations Committee report
Dear Shareholder
Philip Hampton The Committee has worked over the last few years to refresh the
Nominations Committee Board and replace retiring directors. Following the CEO transition,
Chair Emma Walmsley has established Innovation, Performance and Trust
as the long-term priorities for the business and the Committee’s
focus has turned to supporting the CEO in establishing the team
she needs to lead the company for the opportunities and
challenges ahead.
Executive management succession
When Dr Patrick Vallance, President, R&D informed the Board of his
intention to become the UK Government’s Chief Scientific Adviser
and Head of the Government’s Office for Science, the Committee
Role
engaged Korn Ferry, who had previously conducted a proactive
The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board: desktop talent mapping exercise for R&D executives. The Committee,
with full participation of the other Non-Executive Directors, compiled
a profile for the next leader of R&D. The profile contained a brief of
– The structure, size and composition of the Board
the requirements and the desired skill set that a potential successor
and the appointment of Directors, members to the
to Patrick would need. The brief was drafted to emphasise the
Board Committees and the CET
importance the CEO and the Committee placed on identifying and
– Succession to the Board and the CET.
recruiting a world-renowned R&D leader with a strong track record
of developing R&D organisational capabilities and significant new
medicines. On reviewing the profile, the Committee decided that
Membership
it needed to look externally for such talent.
Committee members Committee member since
Korn Ferry then initiated global searches against this agreed profile
Philip Hampton Chair from 27 January 2015 27 January 2015
across the pharmaceuticals industry. Given the importance of this
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 search, the Committee sought a second opinion from Egon Zehnder,
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 who are also experts in the field of executive search. This yielded
Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 a pool of candidates which was reduced to a shortlist of several
Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 potential candidates. These shortlisted candidates met and were
Urs Rohner 1 January 2017 subsequently interviewed by the company’s designated Scientific
and Medical Experts (SME), the Audit & Risk Committee Chair and
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience the Chairman, and their feedback on each candidate was compiled.
are given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages The Committee received the CEO’s analysis of the candidates and
84 to 85. See page 88 for Committee member a separate analysis by the Head of HR.
attendance levels. The process culminated with the Committee meeting to agree
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee a recommendation to the Board that proposed the appointment
and attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee of Dr Hal Barron as Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D.
meetings may include: The recommendation received unanimous Board approval. On 8
November 2017, it was announced that Hal would join the Board
Regular Attends as as an Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2018. Patrick
Attendees attendee required
stepped down as President R&D at the end of 2017 and will resign
Chief Executive Officer ✓ as an Executive Director and CET member from 31 March 2018.
Head of Human Resources ✓ The Board was pleased that Hal’s appointment demonstrated the
Appropriate external advisers ✓ company’s continued ability to attract world class talent to the
organisation. As one of the world’s foremost R&D leaders, Hal
Advisory services possesses an exceptional track record of developing significant
During the year, Korn Ferry and Egon Zehnder provided new medicines at Roche and Genentech, while recently at Calico
recruitment consultancy services to the Committee, in building a research organisation that uses cutting-edge technologies
addition to recruitment and HR services which they provide in drug discovery and development.
to the company. They are both signatories to the Voluntary
In my Committee report last year, we reported that Mr Luke Miels
Code of Conduct for Executive search firms on gender
had been recruited from AstraZeneca, where he was Executive Vice
diversity and best practice.
President of its European business, to succeed Abbas Hussain as
President, Global Pharmaceuticals. Luke subsequently joined GSK
and the CET on 1 September 2017. Luke and Hal had previously
worked together at Roche, and their appointments complete the top
team for our Global Pharmaceuticals business.95
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Nominations Committee report continued
Finally, in terms of senior executive appointments, Ms Karenann We are currently meeting the Parker Report’s recommendation
Terrell was appointed, with the support of Korn Ferry, to the CET in of at least one board director of colour by 2021.
September 2017 as GSK’s first Chief Digital & Technology Officer.
At this point, I wish to personally acknowledge how much I and
She has a company-wide remit to transform how new technologies
everyone involved in the work of the Hampton-Alexander Review
are used to improve performance across the Group. Karenann’s
will miss Dame Helen, who sadly passed away in August last year.
previous role was Chief Information Officer for Walmart, where she
She was an outstanding leader who believed that women could
led a multi-year effort to transform Walmart in the use of data,
and should be able to contribute far more to business than has ever
analytics and digital engagement with its customers.
been acknowledged. The Review team and I will continue the work
These senior executive appointments underscore the immediate in her memory.
areas of focus for our new CEO since taking up her appointment,
The Committee was pleased at the progress made towards our
as she continues to build her senior leadership team to drive the
female Board representation and combined Corporate Executive
Innovation, Performance and Trust agenda.
Team (CET) and Direct Reports targets of at least 33% by 2020.
New Non-Executive Director appointment GSK ranked 8th in the FTSE 100. A summary of our standing in the
During the year, Korn Ferry also assisted the Committee with a Hampton-Alexander Review’s 2017 FTSE Women Leaders report
search for an additional SME Non-Executive Director to further is reproduced below:
enhance the Board’s scientific capabilities, strengthen the Board’s
Female Representation as at 30 June 2017
scientific perspective and to join the new Science Committee. After
interviewing suitable SME candidates, the Committee recommended Combined Executive
2017 Report Female Committee and Direct
Dr Laurie Glimcher to the Board as a potential Non-Executive
Representation Metrics Board Reports
Director and SME. The Board subsequently approved Dr Glimcher’s
2020 FTSE 100 target 33.0% 33.0%
appointment to the Board with effect from 1 September 2017. Laurie
GSK 41.7% (ranked 8th 25.7%
brings a wealth of expertise in scientific and medical innovation and
in FTSE 100)
public health which will be invaluable in assisting the Board’s focus
FTSE 100 average 27.7% 25.2%
on delivering its long-term Innovation, Performance and Trust
priorities. She was also appointed a member of the Science and FTSE 100 highest 44.4% 47%
Audit & Risk Committees.
We currently have:
Board composition and diversity
– 38% women on our Board (2016 – 31%), which will rise to 41.7%
We have sought to balance the composition of the Board and its
on 1 April 2018 after Dr Patrick Vallance has stepped down from
Committees over time.
the Board and left the company; and
Longer serving Directors maintain an understanding of the Group
– 21% women on our CET (2016 – 14%).
and the sector, whilst newer appointees bring fresh external
perspectives and insights. Going forward, closing the gap between the Board and CET gender
representation and further increasing the pipeline of female direct
Our Non-Executive Directors have experience of a wide range of
reports to the CET to achieve our 2020 target is an area of focus.
industries and backgrounds, including the pharmaceuticals industry
In support of this approach, GSK has various actions to enhance
and R&D, vaccines, consumer products and healthcare, medical
our development pipeline; including the Accelerating Difference
research and academia, insurance and financial services, as well
programme, Women’s Leadership Initiative and the Accelerating
as complex organisations with global reach. Importantly, the majority
Transitions coaching programme for those joining or re-joining the
of our Board have a scientific or mathematical background which
company after an extended time of absence.
means they are more attuned to the fundamentals of the industry
in which we operate. The representation of women in management positions is illustrated
on page 49 as part of the gender diversity of GSK’s global workforce
GSK is committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at all
and alongside initiatives to promote diversity and inclusion
levels of the organisation and the Board is committed to encouraging
throughout the organisation.
a diverse and inclusive culture led by the CET.
Committee evaluation
A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises a
The Committee’s annual evaluation exercise was externally facilitated
range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and
by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation and concluded
independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge each
that the Committee continued to operate effectively. It was agreed
other and work as a team. This needs to be backed by a diversity of
that the Committee’s effectiveness could be further improved by:
personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound judgement,
honesty and courage. – refining the approach to long-term succession planning around
key additional skills and capability needs of the Board; and
The Committee is responsible for developing measurable objectives
to support the implementation of the Board’s diversity policy, which – improving the dialogue with the full Board on evolving areas of
is to meet the measurable targets set out in: focus for the Committee.
– the Parker Review Commission’s report ‘Beyond One by ‘21’
published in October 2017 to increase ethnic diversity
appointments on the boards of FTSE 100 companies; and
Philip Hampton
– the Hampton-Alexander Review’s report, which I worked on with
Nominations Committee Chair
the late Dame Helen Alexander, published in 2016 to increase the
number of women in senior leadership positions in all FTSE 350 12 March 2018
companies.96
GSK Annual Report 2017
Accountability
Audit & Risk Committee report
Dear Shareholder
Judy Lewent In the following pages of this report, we aim to share insights into
Audit & Risk Committee the activities undertaken or overseen by the Audit & Risk Committee
Chair (the Committee) during the year. The Committee has worked largely
to a recurring and structured programme of activities. I devise this
programme with the Company Secretary and agree its content with
management and the external auditors at the start of each year. It is
then adapted as appropriate as the year progresses.
Overseeing a smooth audit transition process was an important
focus for the Committee during the year. This exercise, together
with details of the Committee’s continued scrutiny of further
Role enhancements and simplifications to our internal controls, risk
management and financial reporting systems and processes,
The Committee reviews and is responsible for: are covered below.
External auditors
– financial and internal reporting processes Last year, we advised shareholders that after the conclusion
– the integrity of the financial statements, including the of a competitive audit contract tender, the Board appointed the
Annual Report and quarterly results announcements Committee’s preferred choice of Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) as the
– the system of internal controls company’s new auditors from GSK’s 2018 financial year onwards.
– identification and management of risks and external The Committee has overseen the significant activity necessary to
and internal audit processes transition from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) to Deloitte. This
– initiating audit tenders, the selection and appointment initially required Deloitte to achieve independence in the first half of
of external auditors, setting their remuneration and the year before they could observe PwC’s work as statutory auditors
exercising oversight of their work. during the 2017 year-end audit. The Committee has received regular
reports on the audit transition and I met regularly with the lead audit
Membership partners from PwC and Deloitte to discuss progress.
Committee members Committee member since I was pleased to hear more of the new perspectives that Deloitte will
Judy Lewent Chair from 1 January 2013 1 April 2011 bring to the audit when they presented their audit scoping at the end
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 of 2017. This included the significant opportunities that data analytics
can bring. A full report on the audit transition arrangements is given
Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014
on pages 103 to 104.
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017
I would like to thank the PwC team for their professionalism in
Details of the Committee members’ financial, accounting
continuing to deliver a high-quality audit, particularly against the
or scientific experience and expertise are given in their
backdrop of the transition. Both audit firms have cooperated to make
biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 84 to 85.
the transition a smooth one with minimal disruption to the business.
See page 88 for Committee member attendance levels.
I look forward to reporting to shareholders on Deloitte’s first audit in
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and GSK’s 2018 Annual Report.
attends all meetings. The entire Board is invited to attend the
Internal framework for control and risk management
Committee meetings and other attendees include:
developments
Regular Attends as This is a core focus for the Committee. In 2017, the following
Attendee attendee required
developments in the business units and across the enterprise helped
General Counsel ✓
strengthen our culture of compliance and risk management.
Financial Controller ✓
– GSK Values & Expectations: These are a high priority for the
Head of Audit & Assurance ✓
Committee. During the year, it oversaw progress driven by
Head of Global Ethics and Compliance ✓
Global Ethics & Compliance (GEC) to embed and measure the
Chief Medical Officer ✓ effectiveness of our values and further integrate these values into
Chief Product Quality Officer ✓ existing control processes. For example, the Third-Party Oversight
External auditors ✓ framework was updated to require third parties to confirm
adherence to our values and the third-party Code of Conduct.
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Council’s UK
GSK’s values and Speak Up programme elements were also
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has determined
included into the General Manager (GM) certification process
that Judy Lewent has recent and relevant financial
where the company’s GMs confirm their adherence to our Internal
experience. The Board has also agreed that she has the
Control Framework. During 2017, GEC has continued to deploy
appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit
the Leader Led discussion programme on GSK’s values and ‘right
committee financial expert as defined by the Sarbanes-
first time’ culture and ethical decision making workshops.
Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that she is
independent within the meaning of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.
The Committee has, as a whole, competence relevant to the
sector in which the company operates.97
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Audit & Risk Committee report continued
– Values Maturity Assessments & Values Assessment Reviews: Monitoring
The Committee learned how the outcomes from Values Maturity Monitoring is a key element of our Internal Control Framework. It
Assessments (VMAs) performed in 2016 had been used to target serves as a continuous source of insights that inform improvements
assessments in specific areas during 2017. The implementation in the control environment and there was significant focus by each
of business unit specific action plans to address the areas for of our businesses in this area during 2017.
improvement identified by the VMAs was overseen by our local
Compliance activities
Risk Management & Compliance Boards. The VMA insights
– SEC settlement: The Committee continues to review and consider
highlighted that overall Patient Focus and Integrity are the values
updates to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),
with which our employees feel most affinity and are well
as agreed under the settlement made with the SEC in 2016. Our
embedded. During 2017, a positive shift in perception relating
compliance with the terms of the settlement is on track with a final
to our values of Transparency and Respect for People was noted
report due for submission to the SEC in the summer of 2018.
as a result of the Audit & Assurance team’s Values Assessment
Reviews that assess how well our values are embedded in the – CIA: The Committee also has oversight of the company’s
organisation. responsibilities under the CIA entered into with the Office of
Inspector General (OIG) of the US Department of Health and
– The revised GSK Employee Survey: In 2017, more than 84,000
Human Services in 2012. Last year, the Group reported to the
of our people took part in GSK’s employee engagement survey,
OIG on commercial practices within Global Pharmaceuticals.
whose purpose and outcomes are discussed on page 48 of our
Affirmative obligations under the CIA expired in 2017, but the
Strategic report.
Group is waiting for official closure once the OIG completes the
– Written standards & controls: During 2017, work has continued to review of the Group’s final CIA Annual Report. The CIA required
harmonise and simplify written standards across several parts of the Group to ensure sufficient internal controls to mitigate risks
the enterprise; recognising that improved accessibility and clarity associated with commercial practices involving US pharmaceutical
around written standards is an enabler to improved risk products and interactions with US healthcare professionals.
management and informed decision making. The Group received positive feedback from the OIG, and,
consequently, received a release 6 months earlier than the original
– Training & communication: Our GEC function has continued to
5½ year term of the CIA, although commitments with certain
focus on personal development, including:
US states regarding salesforce compensation extend into 2019.
– Ethics and Compliance Academy: In 2017, GEC ran a face-to- During 2017, the Committee continued to receive quarterly CIA
face Ethics and Compliance Academy and launched a Virtual assurance updates from the Head of GEC.
Academy to enable more flexible participation. The first Virtual
– Responding to issues: During 2017, an integrated investigations
Academy was held at the end of 2017 and will be held each
process was developed by GEC, HR and Legal to clarify
quarter. There are currently over 350 certified ethics and
accountabilities, further safeguard reporters using our Speak
compliance professionals since the inception of the Academy
Up channels and deliver improved outcomes and decisions.
in 2015.
These improvements have helped to accelerate the steps taken to
– Living our Values: In April 2017, Part 1 of an enterprise-wide substantiate an allegation and investigate it to a resolution, as well
‘Living our Values’ training was issued to a population of over as delivering enhancements in engagement with key stakeholders
100,000 employees and complementary workers. The training and individuals who raise issues. Further details on reporting and
included scenarios which explored our values and their investigating concerns in GSK are set out on page 50 of our
application to the company’s ways of working, including the Strategic report.
awareness of our Enterprise Risks and Speak Up arrangements.
– Enterprise risk framework and strategies: During the year, the
Part 2 focused on several critical risks, including Privacy and
Committee considered GSK’s Enterprise Risks and the strategies
Anti-bribery & Corruption (ABAC). Mandatory training on ABAC
to address them. These reviews were undertaken through:
and the US Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) was also
completed by targeted areas of our workforce, depending on – Annual unit risk and assurance update reports.
the role they performed.
– Enterprise Risk strategy papers for each of our most
significant risks.
– Annual risk reviews contained in the Risk Management
and Internal Control Report, which is presented by the Head
of GEC.98
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance: Accountability continued
Audit & Risk Committee report continued
As part of its review, the Committee assesses whether the key Financial Reporting – framework enhancements
Enterprise Risks affecting the unit are being managed and mitigated The Committee continued to improve the clarity of GSK’s external
in a proportionate way. The Committee examines whether it is financial reporting by reviewing the company’s financial reporting
satisfied with the control environment, its operation and effectiveness framework. The Committee made recommendations to the Board
and whether refinements that management propose to ensure the which it approved for adoption in early 2017. These changes further
environment remains fit for purpose are appropriate. It also assesses improved the way that GSK reports and explains its adjusted results
the commitment of the unit’s leadership to maintaining a strong and adjusting items in line with European Securities and Markets
controls culture. Authority and SEC requirements. In addition, two changes were
made to the company’s use of Adjusted Performance Measures to
The Committee noted that progress has been made in delivering
further improve the clarity of our financial reporting. Finally, our free
the enablers to drive an even stronger top down risk management
cash flow calculation was adjusted to include all contingent
approach for GSK’s Enterprise Risks to provide greater consistency
consideration payments.
in risk management and drive efficiencies. This included a common
list of Enterprise Risks and sub-risks to be assessed by each unit Global reporting system platforms
and a single list of business activities against which these risks can The Committee was pleased to oversee the continued progress
be mapped. being made in moving towards more standardised, global systems
which support our end-to-end processes. The last significant
– Third Party Oversight programme: The Committee was pleased to
deployments under this multi-year programme will have been
note that by the end of December 2017, over 96,000 assessments
completed by early 2019, with the focus moving to capturing the
across 217 countries had been completed since the Third-Party
benefits that these new standardised systems and processes can
Oversight (TPO) programme had commenced in 2015, with a
generate for GSK.
further 9,500 assessments currently in progress. The
assessments have resulted in the issue of approximately 5,500 My role
Corrective and Preventative Actions designed to improve our Finally, my role as Chair of the Committee continues to be busy and
third-party engagements. The TPO framework continues to evolve varied. During the year, I had significant interactions with key senior
so that it is more efficient and easier to use and is currently being executives and our auditors, and attended a range of management
embedded in GSK’s ‘Making It Easier’ Buying Goods & Services meetings.
programme. Further details on working with third parties was set
The Committee and I have worked closely with Emma Walmsley,
out on page 50 of our Strategic report.
GSK’s new CEO, as she set her new business priorities of
– Enhanced Privacy compliance capability: The Privacy Centre of Innovation, Performance and Trust. The Committee has monitored,
Excellence (CoE) is delivering a change programme to improve and will continue to monitor, the evolution of GSK’s culture as the
and sustainably manage GSK’s data privacy compliance, whilst company sharpens its business performance to ensure performance
also complying with the EU General Data Protection Regulations is delivered appropriately.
(GDPR) that come into effect in May 2018. During 2017, the CoE
Vindi Banga and I are also members of the Remuneration Committee,
made good progress defining a privacy risk framework to enable
which allows us to provide input on the Committee’s review of the
GSK to design proportionate controls, prioritise deployment, and
Group’s performance and oversight on any risk factors relevant to
make effective decisions about risk. Whilst the programme’s
remuneration matters.
purpose is to increase privacy maturity globally, the CoE’s
remediation efforts are focused initially on our European Committee evaluation
operations to mitigate the highest near-term risk created by the The Committee’s annual evaluation exercise was externally facilitated
GDPR. However, further remediation is expected to be delivered by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation. Her report was
by December 2018, at which point GSK’s enhanced privacy largely positive and confirmed that the Committee covered the
operating model will have been deployed globally. ground in detail. After consideration of her report, the Committee
concluded that it continued to operate effectively but agreed to
implement further performance improvements by reviewing:
– the format of papers in terms of their accessibility and considering
how to increase the focus of the Committee’s time in meetings,
allowing more opportunity for review and discussion; and
– with the Nominations Committee, the succession planning for
Board and Committee members with financial experience.
Judy Lewent
Audit & Risk Committee Chair
12 March 201899
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
What the Committee did during 2017
Areas of Committee focus Items discussed Frequency
Financial – Reviewed integrity of draft financial statements, appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern A
reporting assumptions
– Considered approval process for confirming and recommending to the Board that the 2016 Annual Report is A
fair, balanced and understandable
– Reviewed and recommended to the Board approval of the 2016 Annual Report and Form 20-F A
– Reviewed and approved Directors’ expenses A
– Reviewed and recommended approval of quarterly and preliminary results announcements and dividends Q
– Reviewed significant issues in relation to the quarterly and preliminary results Q
– Considered evolving market practice on the Viability Statement requirements A
– Reviewed and recommended inclusion of the Viability Statement for the 2016 Annual Report A
– Reviewed accounting developments and their impacts and key accounting issues. P
External – Received external auditors’ transition updates from management S
auditors – Reviewed and approved audit/non-audit expenditure incurred during 2016 A
– Considered the auditors’ report on the 2016 annual results A
– Performed evidence-based assessment of external auditors and the effectiveness of 2016 external audit A
– Considered qualifications, expertise and independence of the external auditors A
– Recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the external auditors and for the Committee to agree auditors’ A
remuneration
– Approved the 2017 audit plan and audit fee proposal and set performance expectations for auditors A
– Considered initial results of 2017 external audit. P
Global internal – Reviewed assurance reports from Global Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, R&D, GMS and A
control ViiV Healthcare
& compliance – Reviewed GSK’s internal control framework A
– Confirmed compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act A
– Reviewed Audit & Assurance work during 2016 and approved the planned work for 2017 A
– Undertook Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) training A
– Received and reviewed CIA compliance and assurance reports Q
– Reviewed reports on the Operational Excellence programme Q
– Reviewed the implementation of new systems for Group Support Functions P
– Received litigation reports and updates S
– Received reports on ongoing investigations and on ABAC issues. S
Risk – Reviewed risk management framework compliance A
– Reviewed the risk elements of Group treasury, pensions, risk and insurance and tax policies A
– Received status reports on the following Enterprise Risks: ABAC, EHSS, Information Protection, Patient Safety, P
Privacy, Product Quality, Research Practices and Third Party Oversight
– Received terrorism and cyber security risk assessment update P
– Received updates on the implications of Brexit P
– Received Risk Oversight and Compliance Council meeting updates S
– Considered emerging risks. S
Governance and – Confirmed compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code A
other matters – Reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference and confirmed that they had been adhered to during 2017 A
– Received corporate governance updates P
– Reviewed the Committee’s performance and effectiveness A
– Reviewed and approved the Group’s approach to the Modern Slavery Act 2016 P
– Met privately and separately with the Heads of Global Ethics & Compliance and Audit & Assurance P
– Met privately with the external auditors at the end of each meeting as required S
– Approved the publication of the Group’s Tax strategy. A
Committee Activity Key A Annually Q Quarterly P Periodically S Standing100
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance: Accountability continued
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results contained in the 2017 Annual Report, the Committee
reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results. The Committee reviewed papers
prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues and the
judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 are set out in the following
table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. In addition, the Committee and the external auditors have
discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the
Independent Auditors’ Report on pages 149 to 157.
Significant issues considered by the Committee
in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net
of the financial statements debt positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group. Following a review
of the risk and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the
going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for
and rebates (RAR) accruals customer returns and rebates. The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was
£2.8 billion at 31 December 2017 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been
made and concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the
process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 76.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external
investigations into the Group’s legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial
commercial practices practices. Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary
in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to
determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount. At 31 December 2017, the provision for legal matters
was £0.2 billion, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with
management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required. At 31 December 2017, a tax payable
liability of £1.4 billion, including provisions for uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Group’s
balance sheet.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible
assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted management’s judgements on the intangible
assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of £680 million in 2017. See
Note 19 to the financial statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered management’s judgement that following the further improved sales
in relation to ViiV Healthcare performance of Tivicay and Triumeq it was necessary to increase the liability to pay contingent
consideration for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. At 31 December
2017, the Group’s balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of £5.5 billion in relation
to ViiV Healthcare. See Note 39 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’ for
more details.
Consumer Healthcare put option The Committee considered management’s judgement on the valuation of the liability of £8.6 billion
recognised in respect of Novartis’ put option over its shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint
Venture. This included a review of the impact of unwinding the discounting of the liability and the decrease
in the liability caused by the significant strengthening of Sterling in the latter part of the year.
ViiV Healthcare put option The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option and concurred with
management’s judgement on the valuation of the put option of £1.3 billion at 31 December 2017.101
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Auditors’ appointment
External auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) has been the auditor of the company and the Group since the inception of each in 2000. Its
performance has been reviewed annually and audit partner rotation requirements have been observed. GSK conducted an external
audit tender in 2016 with a view to replacing PwC from our 2018 financial year onwards. As disclosed in last year’s report, PwC
was not invited to participate in this audit tender process to comply with audit firm rotation requirements. The audit tender process was
completed in December 2016 when the Board announced that it had appointed Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) as GSK’s new external auditors
with effect from 1 January 2018.
Effectiveness and quality of external audit process
The Committee is committed to ensuring on an ongoing basis that GSK receives a high quality and effective audit from its external
auditors. The effectiveness of PwC’s performance and the quality of the external audit process during 2017 was formally evaluated
by the Committee in early 2018 against criteria which it agreed, in conjunction with management, in early 2017.
The Committee has undertaken a number of activities during the year to satisfy itself of PwC’s continuous external audit quality and
effectiveness, particularly in a year of audit firm transition from PwC to Deloitte. These activities and their timelines are set out below:
Recommend PwC’s PwC’s formal appointment Review PwC’s performance, accept
appointment and performance approved and 2017 audit its resignation and recommend
expectations set process planning Deloitte’s appointment
Matters addressed: Matters addressed: Matters addressed:
– effectiveness of PwC against expectations – shareholders approved resolutions to appoint – effectiveness of PwC against expectations
set in 2016 was reviewed PwC and to authorise the Committee to set in March 2017 were reviewed
– an appropriate level of challenge/scepticism determine their remuneration – an appropriate level of challenge/scepticism
exhibited by PwC in its work was considered – 2017 audit plan was reviewed and agreed exhibited by PwC in their work was considered
– PwC’s independence, appropriate level of – PwC’s quality control procedures were – PwC’s letter of resignation to be received
qualifications, expertise and resources was considered – Deloitte’s independence, appropriate level
reviewed – 2017 statutory audit fee was agreed and set of qualifications, expertise and resources
– a report on PwC’s audit of GSK’s 2015 was reviewed
– management feedback on 2016 audit process
Annual Report by the Financial Reporting through a survey was received covering: – appointment of Deloitte to fill the vacancy
Council’s Audit Quality Team was reviewed – robustness of audit process to be recommended to the Board to approve
– once satisfied on these matters, the – quality of delivery, people and service. – 2018 audit plan was reviewed and agreed
re-appointment of PwC at the next AGM
– performance expectations of Deloitte as
in May to perform the 2017 audit was
auditors for 2018 audit were agreed
recommended to the Board
– the appointment of Deloitte at the next
– performance expectations of PwC as
AGM in May to perform the 2018 audit
auditors for 2017 audit were agreed.
was recommended to the Board
– budget for non-audit services (below 50%
of audit fee) for 2018 was agreed.
March 2017 May 2017 March 2018102
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance: Accountability continued
Auditors’ appointment continued
The detailed criteria the Committee used for judging the effectiveness of PwC as the external auditors and its overriding responsibility to
deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit for 2017 are set out below:
Performance expectations for GSK’s external auditors
Specific auditor – Discuss audit approach and areas of focus in advance and early engagement on understanding the implications of the new operating model
responsibilities – Ensure Sarbanes-Oxley Act scope and additional procedures are discussed and endorsed by management and communicated in a timely
basis within GSK and PwC
– Avoid surprises through timely reporting of issues at all levels within the company
– Ensure clarity of roles and responsibilities between local PwC and GSK Finance Services
– Respond to any issues raised by management on a timely basis
– Meet agreed deadlines
– Provide continuity and succession planning of key staff members of PwC
– Provide sufficient time for management to consider draft auditors’ reports and respond to requests and queries
– Ensure consistent communication between local and central audit teams.
Wider auditor – Provide timely up-to-date knowledge of technical and governance issues, including evolving market practice on the viability statement
responsibilities requirements, European Securities and Markets Authority and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) guidelines and new IFRS
standards IFRS 15 and IFRS 16
– Serve as an industry resource, communicating best practice trends in reporting and integrated reporting
– Adhere to all independence policies (GSK’s, Financial Reporting Council’s 2016 Revised Ethical Standard and applicable SEC standards);
– Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reflects local risks and materiality
– Liaise with Audit & Assurance to avoid duplication of work and Global Ethics and Compliance to ensure a common understanding of
audit outcomes
– Provide consistency of advice at all levels
– Ultimately, provide a high quality service to the Board, be scrupulous in their scrutiny of the Group and act with utmost integrity.
Specific audit – Contribute to a seamless, effective and efficient auditor transition to Deloitte that includes the following actions:
firm transition – Provide access to all relevant information in respect of the audit of GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiaries in relation to the audit
responsibilities of the Group’s consolidated accounts
– Provide information concerning GSK obtained during the course of providing non-audit services, where this constitutes relevant
information for the audit of the Group’s consolidated accounts
– Provide factual/evidenced based oral or written explanation in a timely manner to aid Deloitte’s understanding of audit working papers
– Agree practical:
– terms of interaction to establish an appropriate environment/forum
– arrangements for providing access to information, including the format, mechanism and response time
– Liaise with Deloitte to enable their observation of audit activities once independent
– Provide sufficient analysis of the hours spent in the provision of relevant information
– Complete any additional ad-hoc handover expectations agreed during the year.
Competition and Markets Authority compliance statement: The Committee considers that, during 2017, the company has complied
with the mandatory audit processes and audit committee responsibility provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit
Services Order 2014. Pages 96 to 104 of this report describes the work of the Committee in discharging these responsibilities.
Non-audit services
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the – ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity
external auditor for the provision of certain services such as legal, and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or
actuarial, internal audit outsourcing or financial information systems compromised; and
design. Where the external auditor is permitted to provide non-audit – ensuring that the total fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual
services (such as audit-related, tax and other services), the audit fee, except in special circumstances where there would be
Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are a clear advantage in the company’s auditor undertaking such
safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the Committee additional work.
for such services. There were no contractual or similar obligations
restricting the Group’s choice of external auditor. The existing policy was reviewed and revised by the Committee
in December 2016 to ensure compliance with the Financial
The following core policy guidelines on engaging the external auditor Reporting Council’s (FRC) 2016 Revised Ethical Standard and the
to provide non-audit services are observed: EU Audit Regulation (new regulations). The new policy, which was
– ensuring all non-audit services over £50,000 are put out to implemented across the Group from the beginning 2017,
competitive tender with financial service providers other than the contains the following three policy guidelines:
external auditor, in line with the Group’s procurement process, Fee cap: GSK’s existing policy cap of 50% of the annual audit fee
unless the skills and experience of the external auditor make them cap was retained in the new policy. This is more stringent than the
the only suitable supplier of the non-audit service under FRC’s new fees cap set at 70% of the average fees for the preceding
consideration; three year period.103
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Non-audit services continued
Prohibitions: GSK’s new policy includes a ‘black list’ of prohibited
non-audit services in the new regulations.
Audit/non-audit services three year comparison graph (£m)
Pre-approval: The category-wide pre-approval process was updated
to reflect the restrictions in the FRC’s 2016 Guidance on Audit
Committees, so that all non-audit services: 2017 1.9 27.7
– over £50,000 are pre-approved by the Committee Chairman
and CFO as delegated by the Committee;
– between £25,000 and £50,000 are pre-approved by the
2016 3.5 26.6
Group Financial Controller; and
– under £25,000 are approved by a designate of the Group
Financial Controller.
2015 5.3 20.1 8.0
As part of the external audit firm transition arrangements described
below, Deloitte has been subject to the restrictions of this policy
since it started its required period of independence from 1 July 2017 0 10 20 30 40
in advance of taking on the statutory audit of the Group’s 2018
Audit and assurance services
financial statements from 1 January 2018.
The fee for audit and assurance services in 2015 included £8.0 million arising
Fees paid to the company’s auditors and its associates are set out from the Novartis transaction and the subsequent increase in complexity of the
Group. Approximately half of this is expected to be recurring
below. Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial statements,
Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and treasury-related
‘Operating profit’.
services
Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake
non-audit services.
Auditors’ transition
This has been a significant activity for the Committee during the Throughout the year, to enhance their understanding of GSK, the
year. The Committee has exercised its oversight responsibilities to Deloitte audit team has engaged extensively with various GSK
manage the transition period between PwC and Deloitte and for business stakeholders with a primary focus on the Finance and IT
the Committee to satisfy itself that there is a smooth handover of communities. They have also begun to engage with priority local
audit responsibilities from one to the other. The Committee’s specific market entities that have been identified as representing higher
audit transition performance expectations for PwC are set out on transition complexity, given local regulatory requirements, and with
page 101. entities covered by the Group audit. These local introductions will
progress throughout 2018.
The Committee has received detailed transition papers at each
scheduled meeting. To begin with, a primary focus was to oversee Deloitte has held a series of regional academies to on-board their
the steps needed for Deloitte to achieve independence by 1 July local teams and communicate the audit vision and approach to all
2017 so that the firm could commence their audit planning activities. their local partners. Deloitte has also centrally coordinated
introductory meetings between senior finance managers and Deloitte
This has involved scrutinising Deloitte’s plan to achieve
partners in every location where statutory audit is required.
independence, together with progress made in overseeing the
termination of non-audit services that would be prohibited when Deloitte has, and will continue to take part in the key PwC clearance
Deloitte takes up the role of auditor. For example, this included meetings and targeted PwC walkthroughs to leverage its own work
Deloitte stepping down from its role as the Remuneration from existing PwC procedures. The Deloitte team have performed
Committee’s advisers before the end of June 2017. their initial audit scoping and risk assessment, designed a detailed
audit plan and compiled an initial insights report which it presented
Since independence has been achieved:
to the Committee in December 2017.
– Deloitte has been formally observing PwC’s work and its
PwC will resign after the firm has concluded the 2017 external audit
2017 audit
process and the Committee will recommend to the Board that
– The prospective lead audit partner and his support have been Deloitte be appointed to fill the casual vacancy. Shareholders will
invited to attend all Committee meetings be invited to appoint Deloitte as GSK’s new statutory auditors at the
– The Committee Chair has held a number of meetings with the 2018 AGM. PwC’s audit partner will make himself available at the
lead partner. AGM to answer shareholder questions on the 2017 Annual Report.
The transition process has been thorough with minimal disruption
to GSK’s business.104
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance: Accountability continued
Auditors’ transition continued
2017 External Audit Firm Transition Process
Key phases
Pre-Independence Readiness Post-Independence Transition
January – June 2017 July – December 2017
Key steps
Relationship Building Detailed Audit Knowledge Transfer
Design and Audit planning
January – June 2017 July – September 2017 October – December 2017
Key tasks
– Achieving independence – Completing full risk assessment and scoping
– Building understanding of the GSK organisation structure and business – Implementing audit analytics tools
units – Deepening understanding of business and processes
– Undertaking appropriate audit team selection and on-boarding – Walking through processes and assessing design of controls
– Agreeing process for data extraction tools – On-boarding of global teams and communicating of audit approach
– Agreeing collaboration terms with PwC. – In-country market introductions
– Assessing and concluding on key historic accounting judgements
– Observing PwC interim review process
– Agreeing terms of engagement.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
One of the key compliance requirements of a group’s financial Code of Conduct and reporting lines
statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and We also have a number of well-established policies, including
understandable. The coordination and review of Group-wide a Code of Conduct, which are available on the Governance section
contributions into the Annual Report follows a well-established of our website, and confidential Speak Up reporting lines for
and documented process, which is performed in parallel with the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct. An updated
the formal process undertaken by the external auditors. version of the Code of Conduct was last published in April 2017.
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by
management in the preparation of GSK’s 2017 Annual Report
to ensure that it met the requirements of the Financial Reporting
Council’s 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code. This enabled the
Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that GSK’s 2017 Annual
Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the
company’s position and performance, business model and strategy.105
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Internal control framework
The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced A fit for purpose Framework, in conjunction with our corporate
and understandable assessment of GSK’s current position and values, behaviours and Speak Up processes, ensures that the risks
prospects. The Board is accountable for evaluating and approving associated with GSK’s business activities are actively and effectively
the effectiveness of the internal controls, including financial, controlled in line with our agreed risk appetite. The Framework
operational and compliance controls, and the risk management provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material
processes operated by GSK. misstatement or loss.
The Internal Control Framework (the Framework) is a comprehensive GSK’s Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) is a
enterprise-wide risk management model and the means by which team of senior leaders. It is mandated by the Board to assist the
GSK ensures the reliability of financial reporting and compliance Committee in overseeing risk management and internal control
with laws and regulations. The Framework supports the continuous activities. It also provides the business units with a framework for
process of the Board’s identification, evaluation and management risk management and upward escalation of significant risks. Each
of GSK’s Principal Risks, as required by the Financial Reporting business unit is governed by a Risk Management & Compliance
Council’s (FRC’s) UK Corporate Governance Code (UK Code), Board (RMCB) which reports to the ROCC. The business unit
and is designed to enable GSK to achieve its business objectives. RMCBs are responsible for promoting the local ‘tone from the top’
and risk culture, as well as ensuring effective oversight of internal
controls and risk management processes.
Risk owners, who are members of senior management, are assigned
The Framework
for each Principal Risk. Each risk owner is accountable for the
management of their respective Principal Risk and for reporting on
the risk management strategy to the ROCC and the Committee at
Enterprise oversight
least once every two years. The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted
Independent assurance b foy
r
G adlo vb anal
c
E int gh i rc iss
k
a mnd
a
nC ao gm empl eia nn
t
c ae
c
r(G osE sC th),
e
w eh ni tc eh
r
pis
r
isre es ap no dn s foib
r
l te
h e
Independent business monitoring d soe uve nl do .p Gm Ee Cnt ao cf tw ivo elr yk i pn rg
o
mpr oa tc et sic ee ts
h
it ch aa lt ba ere
h
ari vs iok ub ra ss wed
ith
a inn d
th
e et hically
organisation. It seeks to establish a framework in which all of its
Disc i Ep nl fi on rce ea mn ed nt
B
R A ui ss ssk e is nsm een st
s
& W Cori ntt te ron
ls
Standards e c T
p
tom o h
la
sem np
e
Apl
a
no l u
g
iy y oe d rw ree i mt eis t d&h ac nbaa A ap yn s
g
p tso ehl uip mec re a a eCr ba n nolt tcee
m
a
e li a
nm
n dw
d
iia
t
vs ttc i
e
h
sac eein oo
,
Bd nr pd or(ra oAe an vg r&c diu dAe l
e
oa )w s, nt i i oi n
i
tt
n
hnh dl es i nG
e
. ee pS
f
ew feK ni
c
t dV h
te
i
a va nl eu n
t
n
e aa es ss
s
sa s sun u ord r aa
f
n
n ricc
se
ke
o t P
ro
ble
meR ssp
o n
ding
Activities Training m
a
funa lfidn
l
la
t
inhg gee m
B
Goe San Krt
d
’a
s
c
t
sor to
rm
as tes
e
eG
gt
i
cS
it
sK
o
o
b. vT jeeh cri ss
tii
vga ehs ss
t
au
a
nr na ddn bc
a
ude
i
v
lh dise inolp grys
t
r
rs
e
ue
s
sn
p
ti o wor
n
itm
s hi
ba pn
il
aia
t
tig
ie
ee
s
nm
ti
sne nt
MoM na in toa rg ine gment
Communication a Fn ind
a
no cth iae lr
O
st fa fik ce eh
r
o al nd de r ts h.
e
A C& oA
m
h mas
it
ta
e
ed .ual reporting line into the Chief
The Committee receives regular reports from business units,
Principal Risk owners, GEC and A&A on areas of significant risk
to GSK and on related internal controls. These reports provide
an assessment on the internal control environment within each
Principal Risk area, including enhancements to strengthen the
The GSK values and
expectations
control environment. Following the consideration of these reports,
the Committee concludes on the effectiveness of the internal control
environment and reports to the Board annually. In accordance with
the UK Code provisions, the Committee, on the Board’s behalf, has
conducted a robust assessment of the Group’s Principal Risks. This
includes the consideration of the nature and extent of risk it is willing
to take in achieving the Group’s strategic objectives.106
GSK Annual Report 2017
Internal control framework continued
The Board, through the Committee, has maintained oversight to Further information on GSK’s risk management approach is provided
ensure the effectiveness of the internal control environment and risk in the ‘How we manage risk’ section of the Strategic report on pages
management processes in operation across GSK for the whole year, 20 to 21. Our management of each Principal Risk is explained in
and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report. ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 257 to 266. The Group’s
viability is discussed in the Group financial review section of the
The Board’s review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries but
Strategic report on page 57.
does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures
or other investments, although it considers the risk of the company’s
participation in these activities. There are established procedures
and controls in place to identify entities whose results must be
consolidated with the Group’s results. We believe the process
followed by the Board, through the Committee, in reviewing regularly
the system of internal controls and risk management processes is in
accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control
and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the FRC.
Governance structure of risk management
gnirotinom
rof
ytilibatnuoccA
Responsibility
for
implementing
Corporate Governance: Accountability continued
Board of Directors – Responsible for our system of corporate
governance, strategy, risk management and
financial performance
– Responsible for reviewing and approving
Audit & Risk Committee
the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk
management and internal controls
Corporate Executive Team – Supports the CEO in managing our business
and activities
– Authorised by the Board to assist the Audit
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council & Risk Committee in overseeing the risk
management and internal control activities
of the Group
– Responsible for our system of corporate
Business units
governance, strategy, risk management and
financial performance
– Ensure that appropriate internal controls for
Risk Management and Compliance Boards effective risk management are implemented
– Complemented by Country Executive Risk
Boards to ensure a consistent approach to
risk management across local geography level107
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Relations with stakeholders
Engagement activities
In the performance of its duties and as the company seeks to Our major shareholders
build on its Trust priority, the Board listens to the views of During the year, after publication of our quarterly results
shareholders and other key stakeholders, including our patients, Emma Walmsley and Simon Dingemans gave presentations
consumers, customers and employees, and is cognisant of the to institutional investors, analysts and the media by webcast
potential impacts of decisions it makes. teleconference. In July, Emma Walmsley and her senior team held
an investor update event with the same audience at which she
Our principal Board Committees have delegated powers that
shared her Innovation, Performance and Trust long-term priorities
enables a more in-depth assessment of the impacts of the
and which concluded with an in-depth Q&A session.
company’s engagement with stakeholders. It also provides a
means of identifying emerging stakeholder-related issues that Emma and Simon maintain a continual and active dialogue with
can be brought the attention of the Board, which in turn enables institutional shareholders on performance, plans and objectives
us to further invest in activities to build trust. through a programme of regular meetings. During the year, they
held a total of 87 individual meetings with major shareholders
All shareholders
and they have hosted a total of 25 group meetings with major
We try to engage with shareholders in several ways. This includes
shareholders and potential major shareholders.
regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations
activities. We announce our results on a quarterly basis and our Philip Hampton also meets with major shareholders to hear
annual results are included in our Annual Report. All shareholders their views and discuss issues of mutual importance. He then
receive an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual communicates their views to the rest of the Board. During the year,
Report and Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available. he held over 15 individual meetings with major shareholders on a
range of issues. Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(SID) and our other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet
with major shareholders.
On an ongoing basis, our Investor Relations department,
with offices in London and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for
communication with investors. The Company Secretary acts a
focal point for communications on corporate governance matters.
Annual Governance event
A cornerstone of our investor calendar is the annual governance – Aligning culture and strategy
event that we hold with institutional shareholders, key investment
– Board stewardship and stakeholder relationships
industry bodies and influential proxy advisory firms. This year’s
event was held in December 2017 at the Francis Crick Institute in – Brexit.
London and was hosted by the Chairman, our SID, and our Lynn Elsenhans, Dr Jesse Goodman, Judy Lewent and
Committee Chairs. Urs Rohner provided an overview of the work of their respective
We valued prior engagement with and input from the Investor Board Committees undertaken during the year. Finally, Vindi
Forum and their members in helping shape the agenda for Banga, our SID, provided his insights and perspectives on Board
the event. The Chairman shared updates on key areas of focus dynamics and the role and contribution of the Non-Executive
for the Board including: Directors in challenging and shaping the Group’s strategy and
business model.
– Overview of business performance for 2017
Listening to the views of our shareholders and receiving their
– Board and CET Succession – skills, capabilities
feedback during this event held in the run up to the corporate
and diversity
reporting and AGM season, helps the Board to understand
– New CEO shareholders’ views.
– Oversight of new business priorities:
– Innovation, Performance and Trust
– Capital Allocation108
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance: Relations with stakeholders continued
Engagement activities continued
Annual General Meeting
Our retail shareholders
The Company Secretary acts a focal point for retail investors All shareholders are invited to attend our Annual General
and manages key relationships with the company’s registrars, Meeting, which this year will be held in May at the QEII,
Equiniti in the UK and The Bank of New York Mellon, who London. Our 2017 AGM had a good level of attendance
administer our ADR programme in the US. and engagement by shareholders. All our proposed
resolutions were approved by shareholders. The level of
Our people
support ranged from 93% to 99%. It provides an opportunity
The Board is fully supportive of the Group’s commitment to being
to put questions to our Board and the Chairs of each of our
a progressive, modern employer to attract and retain the best talent
Board Committees during the formal AGM proceedings,
and drive high levels of employee engagement. In 2017, a key
while providing shareholders the chance to meet informally
transformation priority for Emma Walmsley and her CET was to
with our Board directors who will make themselves available
evolve the culture of the company to enhance business performance.
before the meeting.
Our strategic success relies on our ability to engage our employees
behind the delivery of the company’s Innovation, Performance and
Trust long-term priorities. This was discussed at some length by the
Board, as well as at a three-day conference in October 2017
attended by 600 senior leaders.
Employee engagement enhancements
To help enhance our existing employee consultation activities, the Board supported management’s introduction
and roll out of the following engagement activities from 2017 into 2018:
– Let’s Talk programme through – Employees were encouraged
which the CET has regular to input their views through
conversations directly with our Let’s Talk and other channels on
workforce and feedback from these the employee performance system
engagement sessions is shared in advance of a new performance
with the Board and all employees. system linked to our Innovation,
Performance and Trust priorities
and business performance.
2017 2018
Trust
– A new all-employee survey
undertaken every six months, – Regular all-employee
whose engagement levels have newsletter and video from Further details on our Trust
increased significantly since the CEO that rounds up priority, including employee
the previous survey, and has news of interest to our engagement and the company’s
provided valuable insights into employees and encourages approach to developing its
employee sentiment. feedback. workforce in a safe, diverse and
ethical environment, can be
found on pages 48 to 50.109
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Science Committee report
Dear Shareholder
Dr Jesse Goodman I am pleased to present this first report of the Science Committee
Science Committee (the Committee), which was established by the main Board to
Chair consider our science, pipeline and R&D capital allocation priorities.
The Committee’s core role throughout the first year of its operation
has been to provide assurance to the Board on the quality,
competitiveness and integrity of R&D. To discharge this role
effectively requires a Committee to be composed of members with
strong scientific capabilities. I am therefore pleased to be joined on
the Committee by fellow Scientific and Medical Experts, Professor
Sir Roy Anderson and Dr Laurie Glimcher, who, together with Judy
Lewent, each have a background in life sciences from either a
Role
specialist or commercial perspective.
The Committee: What the Committee did during 2017
During 2017, the Committee focused on establishing its role and
– undertakes periodic reviews of R&D strategy remit and considered the following matters:
and progress – R&D’s Pharmaceutical Strategy, Performance and
– assesses the overall performance, including relevant Transformation Programme
financial metrics, effectiveness and competitiveness
– Review of vaccines strategy and science
of R&D
– Medical Healthcare Trends
– helps identify critical emerging trends in science and
medicine and their potential impact on the company – Anti-Microbial Resistance.
– undertakes periodic reviews of the company’s An overarching focus of the Committee’s work has been its appraisal
scientific capability and talent of the R&D transformation proposals and associated funding
– reviews the scientific opportunity in specific large requirements prepared by our new CEO, Emma Walmsley and
scale investments or business transactions President, R&D, Dr Patrick Vallance. The Committee shared its
– reviews the output of the Group’s science advisory feedback with management for incorporation into the proposals
boards. and was pleased to note the key milestones below to date:
– Driving focus and prioritisation: Core therapy areas have been
Membership refocused.
Committee members Committee member since – Enhancing pipeline governance: The Committee noted the effect
Dr Jesse Goodman Chair from 1 January 2017 1 January 2017 of the changes to strengthen portfolio governance, creating
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 January 2017 greater robustness of financial, commercial and strategic review
following the introduction of a new Portfolio Strategy Committee
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017
to guide and challenge this work.
Judy Lewent 1 January 2017
– Improving Development: Significant progress has been made
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience in creating the roadmap for improving the company’s overall
are given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on capability in Development. In 2017, ‘quick wins’ included talent
pages 84 to 85. See page 88 for Committee member development, team optimisation and acceleration planning,
attendance levels. in partnership with the commercial organisation.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee Committee Evaluation
and attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee The first annual evaluation of the Committee was externally facilitated
meetings may include: by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation and concluded
that the Committee was establishing itself, formalising its structure
Regular Attends as and ways of working, including how to continue its oversight of R&D.
Attendee attendee required
Next steps
Company Chairman ✓
The Committee is looking forward to working with Hal. It will
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D ✓
oversee the development of his plans to further reinvigorate R&D
President, Global Vaccines ✓ and accelerate the discovery and development of transformational
Independent senior external scientific new medicines.
adviser(s) ✓
Finally, I would like to thank Dr Patrick Vallance, who steps down
Chief Financial Officer ✓
from the Board at the end of March, for his significant contribution in
Other company executives ✓
helping to establish the Committee, devising its remit and helping me
develop a programme of activities as a basis for the Committee’s
deliberations. I wish him well for the future.
Dr Jesse Goodman
Science Committee Chair
12 March 2018110
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance continued
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
Dear Shareholder
Lynn Elsenhans The Corporate Responsibility Committee (the Committee) acts as
Corporate Responsibility custodian of the policies and practices that define and safeguard
Committee Chair the reputation of the company. As Chair of the Committee I continue,
together with my fellow Committee members, to challenge and shape
the company’s responsible business agenda. Committee members
bring a wide range of sector experience, insight and stakeholder
perspectives to help provide oversight on these topics. This helps
the Board monitor the company’s work to engage effectively with its
key stakeholders and to assess if the company is operating in a way
that seeks to meet the high expectations of GSK as a global
healthcare company that delivers long-term value for both
Role
shareholders and society.
The Committee reviews: The work of the Committee has again focused on topics that
are material to the company’s mission, strategy and values. During
– e xternal issues that have the potential for serious 2017, much of the Committee’s focus has been on reviewing the
impact upon GSK’s business and reputation company’s proposals for future responsible business activity in
support of the company’s new long-term priority of Trust. The
– oversight of stakeholder views and engagement
Committee has also provided oversight of management’s work
– a nnual governance oversight of progress against
to review and refocus GSK’s activity in support of global health
GSK’s Responsible Business Commitments.
moving forward.
The Committee pays close attention to the evolving views and
Membership
expectations of the company’s broad range of key stakeholders
The membership of the Committee and appointment dates
and a regular report on stakeholder developments is reviewed
are set out below:
and discussed at each meeting. This year the Committee also
Committee members Committee member since received an external report and held a discussion on the trends
Lynn Elsenhans Chair from 8 May 2015 1 October 2012 and stakeholder expectations that are likely to influence trust in
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 May 2016 the company over the long-term. The Committee and the
Remuneration Committee were interested to review the preparation
Dr Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016
of the company’s gender pay gap disclosures set out on page 49.
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 May 2016
Since the Committee’s membership was refreshed in mid-2016,
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience
I have been impressed with the way in which Roy, Jesse and Vivienne
are given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on
have exercised their knowledge and understanding of the issues
pages 84 to 85. See page 88 for Committee member
under discussion, which has brought new challenge and oversight
attendance levels.
to the Committee and will stand us in good stead in 2018 as the
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee company further evolves its responsible business agenda. I was also
and attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee pleased to invite Roger Connor, President, GMS, who has company
meetings may include: responsibility for Product Quality as well as Environment, Health,
Regular Attends as Safety and Sustainability, to attend the Committee on a regular basis
Attendee attendee required as the Committee continues to increase its focus in these vital areas
Chief Executive Officer ✓ of the company’s operations.
Company Chairman ✓ This year we have continued to enjoy positive engagement with
General Counsel ✓ investors on our responsible business approach and performance,
President, Global Affairs ✓ in particular where there are opportunities to enhance investment
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D ✓ value, create business opportunities and mitigate risk, alongside
creating social value.
President, GMS ✓
President, Global Pharmaceuticals ✓ The company is well positioned in 2018 to evolve its Responsible
President, Global Vaccines ✓ Business Commitments to a new set of focused activity that
will support the delivery of Trust as one of GSK’s long-term
CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare ✓
business priorities.
Head of Human Resources ✓
SVP, Corporate Affairs ✓
Head of Global Corporate Responsibility ✓ Lynn Elsenhans
Other Executives ✓ Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
Independent external corporate 12 March 2018
responsibility adviser ✓111
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Corporate Responsibility Committee report continued
Main responsibilities Work of the Committee in 2018
The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 110. In 2018, the Committee will continue to seek to understand
how management is responding to the expectations of external
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from
stakeholders and will seek to align its agendas to the activities
members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress
that support the company’s long-term priority of Trust.
in meeting our Responsible Business Commitments within four
areas of focus is reviewed on an annual basis as follows: Independent External Corporate Responsibility Adviser
– Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health needs; To support the Committee in ensuring that we give sufficient
improving access to our products, irrespective of where people consideration to the views of key stakeholders at each meeting, in
live or their ability to pay; and controlling or eliminating diseases May 2013, Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external
affecting the world’s most vulnerable people. adviser to the Committee, a position that she had previously held until
July 2011. Ms Tickell has extensive experience in the pharmaceuticals
– Our behaviour: Putting the interests of patients and consumers
industry in improving health systems’ productivity, sustainability in
first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by
energy supply and distribution, climate change policy and short-
robust policies and strong compliance processes.
termism in financial markets.
– Our people: Enabling our people to thrive and develop as
She is the co-founder and Director of Meteos, from where she
individuals to deliver our mission.
directs the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better societal
– Our planet: Growing our business while reducing our and shareholder value. She holds a number of other board and
environmental impact across the value chain. advisory roles.
In addition, at each meeting the Committee considers an analysis Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided
by management of engagement with and expectations of the independent advice and guidance on corporate responsibility
company’s key stakeholders which may have a bearing on the matters to both the Committee Chair and the CEO.
company’s reputation and the delivery of its responsible business
Committee evaluation
agenda. The Committee also reviews and approves the Responsible
The Committee’s annual evaluation exercise was externally facilitated
Business Supplement which is available for reference on
by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation and concluded
www.gsk.com/responsibility.
that the Committee continued to operate effectively.112
GSK Annual Report 2017
Corporate Governance continued
Directors
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our Change of control and essential contracts
Articles of Association, which contain rules about the appointment We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually
and replacement of Directors. They provide that Directors may be are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively,
appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members, or by a nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take
resolution of the Directors, provided that, if appointed by the Board, effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following
the Director retires at the AGM following the appointment. a takeover bid. We do not have agreements with any Director that
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject
resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s
to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if
share plans may cause options and awards granted under such
they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or more.
plans to vest on a takeover. Details of the termination provisions in
The Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors who wish to continue as
the Executive Directors’ service contracts are given in the full version
members of the Board should seek re-election annually in
of the company’s 2017 Remuneration policy report which is available
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
A Director may cease to be a Director if he or she:
Directors’ Report
– becomes bankrupt
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’
– ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or
Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December
the Articles
2017 comprises pages 79 to 112 of the Corporate Governance
– suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves
Report, the Directors’ statements of responsibilities on pages
that he or she shall cease to be a Director
148 and 233 and pages 257 to 286 of Investor Information. The
– has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of six
Strategic report sets out those matters required to be disclosed
months without permission and the Board resolves that he or
in the Directors’ Report which are considered to be of strategic
she shall cease to be a Director
importance:
– is prohibited from being a Director by law
– resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer – risk management objectives and policies (pages 20, 21 and
– is required to resign by the Board. 77 to 78)
– likely future developments of the company (Strategic report)
Directors’ conflicts of interest
– research and development activities (pages 23 to 41)
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a
– diversity and inclusion (page 49)
situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict
– provision of information to, and consultation with, employees
of interest or possible conflict with the company. Our Articles provide
(page 48)
a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
– carbon emissions (page 51)
The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board
The following information is also incorporated into the Directors’ Report:
to grant and regularly review any potential or actual conflict
Location in Annual Report
authorisations, which are recorded by the Company Secretary
and noted by the Board. Directors are not counted in the quorum Interest capitalised Financial statements,
Notes 17 and 19
for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conflicts.
Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 52
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing
Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conflicts that
Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may
affect an authorisation previously given. Even when provided with Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory duty Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
to promote the success of the company. If an actual conflict arises Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
post-authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the Director by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking
from receipt of the relevant information and participation in the Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable
debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, by a listed subsidiary
require the Director to resign. Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable
shareholder
The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential
Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements,
conflict authorisations in January 2018 and reported to the Board
Notes 15 and 43
that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the
process for authorisation continues to operate effectively. Except Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements,
Notes 15 and 43
as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related party
transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no Director Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
or Person Closely Associated had any material interest in any
The Directors’ Report has been drawn up and presented in
contract of significance with a Group company.
accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and
Independent advice the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall
The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s expense
The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board of Directors on
where they deem it necessary.
12 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by:
Indemnification of Directors
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors and Philip Hampton
former Directors who held office during 2017 and up to the signing Chairman
of the Annual Report. 12 March 2018111133
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Remuneration
In this section
Chairman’s annual statement 114
Annual report on remuneration 116
2017 Remuneration policy summary 142114
GSK Annual Report 2017
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement
Dear Shareholder Remuneration outcomes for 2017
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to All awards in relation to 2017 were made
present to you our Remuneration report for in accordance with the approved
2017. This includes my annual statement, our Remuneration policy. The key decisions
Annual report on remuneration and a made by the Remuneration Committee
summary of our Remuneration policy which (the Committee) were as follows:
was approved at our AGM in 2017, with
– The bonus outcomes for the Executive
95.2% of shareholders voting in favour.
Directors were determined by reference
The Annual report on remuneration and to performance against the pre-agreed
this annual statement will be subject to financial measure, as well as the
The decisions which the an advisory vote at our AGM on 3 May 2018. Committee’s assessment of their
individual levels of performance. GSK
Context for Executive remuneration at GSK
Remuneration Committee achieved performance in excess of the
2017 has seen GSK perform well. Sales
relevant financial target for the year. In
has taken this year have grew across each of our three businesses –
conjunction with assessment of individual
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
been aligned with our performance, this has resulted in bonus
Healthcare – with continued good
payments being made above target, but
Remuneration policy, which momentum in our new products, driven by
below maximum opportunities. Further
strong performances from Tivicay and
received overwhelming Triumeq in HIV, the inhaled Ellipta portfolio details of the bonus outcomes for the year
are provided on page 120.
and Nucala in Respiratory and meningitis
shareholder support at
vaccines. We have also seen three key – Vesting of the 2015 Performance Share
our AGM in 2017. approvals: Shingrix vaccine for shingles; Plan (PSP) awards and the matching
Trelegy Ellipta, a once-daily single inhaler awards under the Deferred Annual
triple therapy for COPD; and Juluca Bonus Plan (DABP) were based on the
(dolutegravir and rilpivirine), the first 2-drug pre-agreed measures of R&D new
regimen, once-daily, single pill for HIV. GSK product performance, adjusted free cash
has demonstrated continued cost controls flow and relative TSR, each with an equal
throughout the year and improved free cash weighting. Performance was measured
flow. We also achieved earnings growth and over the three years to 31 December
delivered Adjusted EPS growth in line with 2017. The threshold levels for the TSR and
our guidance. Total EPS also increased. cash flow measures were exceeded, and
Finally, returns to shareholders through the the maximum level was achieved for the
dividend were in line with expectations. R&D new products measure, resulting in
an overall vesting level of 69%. Further
details of the vesting outcome for the
2015 PSP and DABP matching awards
are provided on page 122.
2018 Remuneration
The Committee reviewed the Executive
Director salaries for 2018. Both Emma
Walmsley’s and Simon Dingemans’ salaries
increased from 1 January 2018 by 2.5%,
in line with increases for the broader
employee population. It remains the
Committee’s intention to keep Ms
Walmsley’s package under review in
coming years subject to her development
and performance in the role.115
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Board changes Looking ahead The Financial Reporting Council (FRC)
In November 2017, Dr Patrick Vallance The R&D new products measure for our LTI has recently consulted on broadening the
announced that he would leave the plans was implemented to recognise the role of remuneration committees and other
company to become the UK Government’s importance of R&D to future business proposed measures on pay, as part of its
Chief Scientific Adviser and Head of growth. It will continue to be relevant for our wide-ranging review of the UK Corporate
the Government’s Office for Science. LTI performance through 2020. It rewards Governance Code (the revised Code). The
Dr Vallance is a voluntary leaver and not only the performance of our R&D Committee has included its views on these
therefore will not receive any severance organisation but also successful matters in the company’s response to the
payment when he leaves the company at the commercialisation. While launch excellence consultation on the revised Code.
end of March 2018. Dr Vallance will continue remains important, the Committee considers
The Committee has reviewed its current
to receive his base salary, set in 2017, until that there are other means to incentivise
practices against the Government and
he leaves GSK. He was also eligible to commercial success across the Group. The
FRC’s measures and is well-placed to
receive a bonus for 2017 based on a Committee will therefore be working during
comply with them. I look forward to providing
combination of business and individual 2018 to design a new LTI measure based on
an update on these issues in next year’s
performance. He will not receive any bonus the R&D pipeline which will replace the R&D
report.
for the portion of 2018 for which he is new products measure from the 2019 LTI
employed and any PSP and DABP matching awards. We look forward to sharing more AGM
awards which have not already vested prior details of the new Innovation measure as this Finally, I would like to thank shareholders
to his departure will lapse when he leaves. year progresses. for their ongoing input and engagement and
He was not eligible to receive an LTI award I welcome all shareholders’ feedback on
Governance developments
in 2018. this report. We look forward to receiving
The Committee has taken a close interest in
your support for our Annual report on
In November 2017, we announced the legislative and best practice developments
remuneration at our AGM on 3 May 2018.
appointment of Dr Hal Barron to the role around Director pay policy and supports
of Chief Scientific Officer and President, initiatives that raise the bar in this area.
R&D from 1 January 2018. Dr Barron is
As a modern employer, the company takes
one of the world’s foremost R&D leaders
its responsibilities under the new gender pay
and has spent most of his career working
regulations very seriously. The Committee
in the USA. Dr Barron’s package is fully in and the Corporate Responsibility Committee Urs Rohner
line with the Remuneration policy approved were interested to review the preparation of Remuneration Committee Chairman
by shareholders in 2017. His base salary
the company’s gender pay disclosures set 12 March 2018
is $1.7 million and his incentive opportunities
out on page 49.
are in line with the approved Remuneration
policy. In aggregate, his total compensation The UK Government has announced a
is within the competitive range seen among package of measures on executive pay,
our global pharmaceutical peer group. No including secondary legislation requiring
“buy-out” awards were made. publication of pay ratios between
companies’ CEOs and the average of
Sir Andrew Witty stepped down as CEO
their UK employees. The Committee
and retired from GSK by mutual agreement
supports these further enhancements in
in March 2017 and Dr Moncef Slaoui
transparency for shareholders and other
stepped down from the Board in March
interested stakeholders and will include
and retired from GSK by mutual agreement
this information in our report once the
in June 2017. The agreed termination
methodology for calculating the ratio is
arrangements in both cases were set
finalised in new regulations.
out in last year’s report. In both cases,
the arrangements were executed in line
with the approach described last year
and, accordingly, this year’s Remuneration
report provides further details of the final
amounts paid.116
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration
2017 at a glance
2017 highlights summary
The following shows a breakdown of total remuneration paid to Executive Directors in office at 31 December 2017, in respect of
2017 and 2016
Emma Walmsley, CEO(1) Simon Dingemans, CFO Dr Patrick Vallance, Outgoing President, R&D(1)
£8m
£6m
71%
£4m 76% 76%
69%
£2m
29%
24% 31% 24%
£0m
2017 2017 2016 2017
Fixed pay – salary, benefits and pension Performance pay – 2017 annual bonus and LTIs earned in respect of the three years to the end of 2017
(1) Emma Walmsley and Dr Patrick Vallance were both appointed to the Board on 1 January 2017.
Pay for performance
2017 Annual bonus: financial performance 2015 LTI outcome – performance period ended 31 December 2017
Overall vesting 69%
Maximum
Relative R&D new
(105% of target)
TSR products
102% [•]% 33%
1/3rd 1/3rd
Target
15%
Threshold
(95% of target)
21%
Core Group PBIT*
Maximum performance target Performance achieved Adjusted Lapsed
free cash flow Vested
* Now called Adjusted Group PBIT.
1/3rd
Executive Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of Share ownership vs SOR (multiples of base salary)
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant
Emma Walmsley 2.1x 6.5x
holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive Directors
are required to continue to satisfy these share ownership
requirements (SOR) for a minimum of 12 months after Simon Dingemans 3.0x 6.2x
leaving GSK.
Dr Patrick Vallance 3.0x 5.5x
Executive Directors and CET Multiple of base salary
0 2x 4x 6x
CEO 6.5
SOR 31 December 2017 shareholding
Other Executive Directors 3
Other Corporate Executive Team members 2117
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Total remuneration for 2017 (audited)
Value earned
Annual Total
Salary Benefits Pension from LTI
bonus remuneration
awards
A. Fixed pay B. Pay for performance
The total remuneration for 2017 for each Executive Director is set out in the table below:
Dr Patrick Vallance, Dr Moncef Slaoui,(5)
Emma Walmsley,(1) Sir Andrew Witty,(1)(5) Simon Dingemans,(7) Outgoing President, (Former Chairman,
CEO (Former CEO) CFO R&D Global Vaccines)
Jan-Mar Jan-Mar
2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
A. Fixed pay
Salary > See page 118 (2)965 – 279 1,115 754 736 780 – 311 1,242
Benefits > See page 118 266 – 92 124 142 92 102 – 232 495
Pension > See page 119 195 – – 520 151 147 156 – 101 875
Other(6) – – 344 – – – – – 260 –
Total fixed pay 1,426 – 715 1,759 1,047 975 1,038 – 904 2,612
B. Pay for performance
2017 Annual bonus(3)
> See pages 120 and 121 1,540 – – 2,167 1,090 915 1,127 – – 1,726
Vesting of LTI awards:
DABP matching awards(4) 112 – – 361 156 119 182 – – 293
PSP (4) > See page 122 1,805 – – 2,543 2,012 1,119 2,041 – – 1,812
Total pay for performance 3,457 – – 5,071 3,258 2,153 3,350 – – 3,831
A+B = Total remuneration 4,883 – 715 6,830 4,305 3,128 4,388 – 904 6,443
Notes:
(1) Emma Walmsley was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2017, and succeeded Sir Andrew Witty as CEO on 1 April 2017. Sir Andrew stepped down as CEO,
and retired from the Board, on 31 March 2017.
(2) Emma Walmsley’s salary as CEO Designate between 1 January and 31 March 2017 was £850,000. Ms Walmsley’s salary then increased from 1 April 2017 to £1,003,000
when she succeeded Sir Andrew Witty as CEO.
(3) Details of Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) (bonus deferrals) are set out on page 129. From 2017, no matching awards will be made under the DABP.
(4) Further details in respect of the vesting of DABP (matching awards) and Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards for the three-year period to 31 December 2017 are provided
on page 122.
(5) The PSP and DABP awards for Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui granted in 2015 have not yet vested. These awards will vest following the one-year anniversary of their
termination in accordance with the terms of the Executive Financial Recoupment Policy. For Sir Andrew, awards will vest after 31 March 2018 and for Dr Slaoui, after 30 June 2018.
In addition to this delayed vesting, the PSP awards for both have a two-year holding period from the point of normal vesting.
(6) As disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report on page 136, Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui left GSK by mutual agreement, neither received any termination payments and any
outstanding incentive awards were treated in accordance with the 2014 Remuneration policy approved by shareholders. Under those terms, Sir Andrew and Dr Slaoui received
payments pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked in lieu of performance related bonus payments. The pro-rated amounts paid for the three months to 31 March 2017
were £343,520 and $260,340 respectively.
(7) Simon Dingemans’ vested PSP shares will be subject to a two-year holding period.
(8) The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus, as it determines appropriate. Following due consideration by the Committee,
there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2017 in respect of any of the Executive Directors.118
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Total remuneration for 2017 (audited) continued
The following sections provide details of each element of ‘Total remuneration’, including how the Committee implemented the approved
Remuneration policy in 2017.
Comparator groups for pay and TSR
The Committee used two pay comparator groups for all roles when considering executive pay for 2017. The primary group used for each
Executive Director was as follows:
UK cross-industry comparator group Global pharmaceutical comparator group
Emma Walmsley AstraZeneca Reckitt Benckiser Dr Patrick Vallance France US
Simon Dingemans BHP Billiton Rio Tinto Sanofi AbbVie(1)
BP Royal Dutch Shell Switzerland Amgen(1)
British American Tobacco Unilever Novartis Bristol-Myers Squibb
Diageo Vodafone Roche Holdings Eli Lilly
Johnson & Johnson
UK
Merck & Co
AstraZeneca
Pfizer
(1) AbbVie and Amgen are included for remuneration benchmarking, but are not included in the TSR comparator group.
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee also references pay for a group of leading European companies whose selection is
based on their size and complexity.
Fixed pay (audited)
Salary 2017 benefits 2016 benefits
The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive Directors £000 £000
over the last two years. As disclosed last year, the salary increases Emma Walmsley
made in 2017 were aligned with those provided to the wider Employee benefits 60 –
workforce. Details of salary levels for 2018 are provided on page 140. Travel 146 –
Other benefits 60 –
Base salary
%
Total 266 –
change 2017 2016
Emma Walmsley Sir Andrew Witty
(1 January to 31 March) n/a £850,000 – Employee benefits 18 63
Emma Walmsley Travel 6 23
(1 April to 31 December) n/a £1,003,000 –
Other benefits 68 38
Sir Andrew Witty 0% £1,114,500 £1,114,500
Total 92 124
Simon Dingemans 2.5% £754,000 £735,600
Simon Dingemans
Dr Patrick Vallance n/a £780,000 –
Employee benefits 53 30
Dr Moncef Slaoui 0% $1,242,100 $1,242,100
Travel 64 38
Benefits Other benefits 25 24
The table opposite shows a breakdown of the grossed up cash value
Total 142 92
of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in 2017 and 2016
Dr Patrick Vallance
which included:
Employee benefits 48 –
– Employee benefits: all employee share plans, healthcare, Travel 46 –
car allowance, personal financial advice and life assurance/death
Other benefits 8 –
in service cover.
Total 102 –
– Travel expenses: car, travel and spouse/partner costs associated
Dr Moncef Slaoui $000 $000
with accompanying the Executive Director on GSK business,
which are deemed to be taxable benefits for the individual. Employee benefits 85 158
Travel 10 34
– Other benefits: expenses incurred in the ordinary course of
business, which are deemed to be taxable benefits for the Other benefits(1) 137 303
individual and, as such, have been included in the table. Total 232 495
(1) For Dr Moncef Slaoui, other benefits include UK accommodation of $57,578 in 2017
(2016 – $247,875).119
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Fixed pay (audited) continued
Pensions
Executive Director Pension plan type Member since
Emma Walmsley 20% of base salary and matching contributions on the first £33,333 of salary(1) 2010
20% of base salary in lieu of pension on salary in excess of £33,333(2).
Sir Andrew Witty UK defined benefit 1991
Simon Dingemans 20% of base salary in lieu of pension(3) –
Dr Patrick Vallance 20% of base salary in lieu of pension(3) –
Dr Moncef Slaoui US and Belgian plans (4) 1988
(1) As a member of the defined contribution plan, Emma Walmsley is eligible to receive a matching award of up to 5% on the first £33,333 of her salary in accordance with the terms
of the plan.
(2) Emma Walmsley receives a cash payment in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in excess of £33,333 in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
(3) Simon Dingemans and Dr Patrick Vallance receive a cash payment in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
(4) Since becoming a member of these plans, Dr Moncef Slaoui built up pensionable service in the Belgian Plan, and in the US Cash Balance and Supplemental Pension Plans.
Annual employer cash contributions were made to the 401(k) Plan and Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP). His current pension entitlement is a product of his service
and progression within GSK.
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values set out on page 117.
Emma Walmsley Sir Andrew Witty Simon Dingemans Dr Patrick Vallance Dr Moncef Slaoui
Jan-Mar Jan-Mar
2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016
Pension remuneration values(1) £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
UK defined benefit – – – 520 – – – – – –
US defined benefit – – – – – – – – 7 742
UK defined contribution 9 – – – – – – – – –
Belgian defined benefit(2) – – – – – – – – – 10
Employer cash contributions 186 – – – 151 147 156 – 94 123
Total pension remuneration value 195 – – 520 151 147 156 – 101 875
(1) T he pension remuneration figures have been calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (Remuneration Regulations). In calculating the defined benefit pension values for 2017 for Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Slaoui, the
difference between the accrued pension as at 31 March 2017 and the accrued pension as at 31 December 2016 increased by inflation (1% for UK defined benefit, 2.2% for
US defined benefit, 2.2% for Belgian defined benefit) has been multiplied by 20.
(2) Amounts have been translated from Euros into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.11 for 2016.
Further details regarding the 2017 pension values for defined benefit plan participants are set out in the table below.
Accrued pension
31 March 2017 31 Dec 2016 Pension remuneration
Sir Andrew Witty(1) £ (p.a.) £ (p.a.) value for 2017 (£000)
UK – Funded 72,261 71,591 –
UK – Unfunded 670,739 670,500 –
Total 743,000 742,091 –
Accrued pension
31 March 2017 31 Dec 2016 Pension remuneration
Dr Moncef Slaoui(1) $ (p.a.) $ (p.a.) value for 2017 ($000)
US – Funded 15,844 15,434 7
US – Unfunded 427,686 439,393 –
Belgium – Funded(2) 105,655 103,230 –
Total 549,185 558,057 7
(1) T he pensions figures are disclosed for both Sir Andrew Witty and for Dr Moncef Slaoui, who are members of defined benefit plans.
T he table shows the accrued benefit (i.e. the annual pension accrued to date). The pension remuneration in 2017 is calculated as the increase in the accrued benefit, adjusted for
inflation and a multiplier (to reflect the fact that the benefit will be received for a number of years). Where a movement is negative in the year, no value is shown.
(2) Amounts have been translated from Euros into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.13 for 2017 and 1.11 for 2016.120
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual bonus
70% 30%
Core Group PBIT* Individual
Annual bonus
objectives
* Renamed Adjusted Group PBIT.
2017 performance against targets
For 2017, the financial measures and weightings were as follows:
Weighting 2017 performance
Positioning
Performance measure Executive Directors 2017 target(1) Outcome against target
Core Group PBIT (now called Adjusted Group PBIT) 70% £8,126m £8,322m 102%
Individual objectives 30%
(1) Threshold and maximum performance targets were set at 95% and 105% of Target respectively.
(2) The Core Group PBIT target and outcome for the purposes of the Annual bonus calculation differs from Core Group PBIT disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report, primarily because
both the target and outcome numbers are calculated applying GSK budget exchange rates and not actual exchange rates.
The following table shows actual bonuses earned compared to opportunity for 2017:
2017 bonus opportunity 2017 bonus outcome
2017 Financial Individual Total 2017 Total 2017
Base salary Target Maximum performance objectives bonus bonus
Bonus £ (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) £000
Emma Walmsley 1,003,000 98 55.5 153.5 1,540
Simon Dingemans 754,000 100 200 98 46.5 144.5 1,090
Dr Patrick Vallance 780,000 98 46.5 144.5 1,127
(1) As Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui ceased to be Executive Directors during the year, in accordance with the Remuneration policy they received a pro-rata payment for
2017 in lieu of a variable bonus opportunity. The Committee set role specific objectives for them for this period. As the two individuals ceased to be Executive Directors before the
2017 Remuneration policy was approved, the target bonus opportunities were as set out in the policy approved by shareholders in 2014 (i.e. 125% of salary for Sir Andrew and
85% of salary for Dr Slaoui). These contractual payments are shown under Other in the table on page 117.
The table below provides more detail on delivery against the Core Group PBIT target, now called Adjusted Group PBIT:
Financial performance
Core Group PBIT – Group turnover was £30.2 billion, an 8% increase AER and 3% CER
(Adjusted Group
– Adjusted operating profit £8,568 million, 5% higher on a CER basis, and 12% higher AER
PBIT)
– The Adjusted operating margin of 28.4% was 0.9 percentage points higher than in 2016 and 0.4 percentage points higher on a
CER basis. This reflected improved operating leverage driven by sales growth and a more favourable mix in all three businesses.
The margin also benefited from continued tight control of ongoing costs across all three businesses as well as restructuring and
integration benefits in the Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses, partly offset by continued pricing pressures, particularly
in respiratory, and investments in R&D and the supply chain.121
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pay for performance (audited) continued
The following table summarises performance against the scorecard of individual objectives agreed by the Committee for each
Executive Director:
Individual objectives
Emma Walmsley – Successful induction and transition from Sir Andrew Witty.
– Delivered a strong overall financial performance for the Group in 2017.
– Strong performance from new product sales: £6.7 billion, +51% AER, 44% CER (on track to deliver £6 billion in new product sales
on a CER basis by 2018; 2017 sales £5.7 billion at CER).
– Building a top Corporate Executive Team with outstanding new hires of new Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D; President,
Global Pharmaceuticals; and Chief Digital & Technology Officer. 40% of top 125 roles are new hires or internal promotions.
– Successfully completed strategic review of the Pharmaceuticals business in key areas such as portfolio, footprint, operating model.
Implementation ongoing.
– Significant pipeline reprioritisation and new R&D portfolio governance process across R&D and commercial.
– New 5-year Pharmaceuticals supply chain-strategy to reduce complexity and improve productivity whilst maintaining compliance.
– Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities and KPIs defined, communicated and used as basis for all employee objectives and
business performance management.
– Improving cash and cost discipline, with newly established capital allocation process and integrated business P&L and cash flow
management.
– New employee expectations and incentive system launched as key enablers of culture change.
– Significant improvements in reliability and quality supply for our Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Health businesses.
– GSK ranked #1 in Access to Vaccines Index and Anti-Microbial Resistance Benchmark.
– 10 per cent improvement in comparable employee engagement score since 2015.
Simon Dingemans – Delivered strong financial leadership for the Group in 2017.
– Improved cash flow generation. Improved cash and cost discipline, with newly established capital allocation process and integrated
business P&L and cash flow management.
– Restructuring and synergy programmes delivered combined benefits of £3.7 billion in 2017 (£3.3 billion at CER).
– Developed capital allocation framework to support the strategy, including business development requirements.
– Strong support to new CEO.
– Appointment of new Chief Digital & Technology Officer.
Dr Patrick Vallance – Strong performance from new product sales: £6.7 billion, +51% AER, 44% CER, including strong performances from Tivicay
and Triumeq in HIV, inhaled Ellipta portfolio and Nucala in Respiratory.
– Two key approvals from Pharmaceuticals pipeline included:
– Trelegy Ellipta once daily single inhaler triple therapy for COPD;
– Juluca first 2-drug regimen, once-daily, single pill for HIV.
– Continued strong delivery by the R&D organisation across the R&D pipeline.
– Completed R&D performance review leading to significant pipeline reprioritisation and operational changes in the areas of
diagnosis and early implementation.
– Strengthened R&D partnership with Commercial Pharmaceuticals. Particular attention paid to pipeline prioritisation.
Malus and clawback policy
For details of our policy on malus/clawback, please refer to the 2017 Remuneration policy report on page 140 of the 2016 Annual Report,
available at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
From 1 January 2015 in respect of each financial year, the Committee decided to disclose whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has
exercised malus or clawback.
Disclosure is only made when the matter has been the subject of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully resolved, where it is
legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore shareholders.
In line with these disclosure guidelines, neither the Committee (nor the Recoupment Committee) exercised malus or clawback during 2017.
Other policies
For details of our policies on recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the 2017 Remuneration policy
report on pages 137 to 146 of the 2016 Annual Report, available at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.122
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Value earned from long-term incentives (LTIs)
The following tables set out the performance achieved by management against the targets set for the company’s LTI plans and also includes
an update on performance of outstanding awards.
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, for each measure applicable to the 2015 LTI awards, actual performance against targets is
reviewed and adjustments made as appropriate to reflect the impact of the Novartis transaction on the business and to ensure that the vesting
outcome reflects genuine underlying business performance. Further details on any adjustments made will be provided at the time of
vesting.
2015 awards with a performance period ended 31 December 2017
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors against the targets set. The
performance achieved in the three years to 31 December 2017 and the vesting levels are set out in the table below.
Outcome and vesting level
Performance measures % of % of
and relative weighting Performance targets Outcome maximum award
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new £11.27bn 100 33
performance products launched in the three-year performance period and the preceding two years,
(1/3rd) i.e. 2013-17.
Original target Adjusted target % vesting
Maximum £7.58bn £7.91bn 100%
£6.89bn £7.19bn 75%
£6.54bn £6.83bn 50%
Threshold £6.20bn £6.47bn 25%
Adjusted free In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included adjustments £12.47bn 63 21
cash flow (AFCF) for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements, exchange rate
performance movements and special pension contributions.
(1/3rd)
Target(1) % vesting
Maximum £13.6bn 100%
£13.0bn 75%
£11.8bn 50%
Threshold £11.5bn 25%
(1) The AFCF target was set and announced following the close of the Novartis transaction in 2015.
The target was not adjusted.
Relative TSR Ranked 5th 44 15
TSR ranking within comparator group(1) % vesting
performance
Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
(1/3rd)
4th 72%
5th 44%
Threshold(2) Median 30%
6th to 10th 0%
(1) T SR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GSK, Johnson & Johnson,
Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
(2) T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 30% vesting for median performance.
In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls between two companies.
Total vesting in respect of 2015 awards 69%123
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Historical vesting for GSK’s LTIs
Year of grant Performance measures Total vesting level Lapsed
2015 T A R 15 21 33 31
DABP matching awards were made from
2014 T A R 33 67 2010 onwards. In 2010, DABP matching
awards were wholly subject to TSR
performance and had a total vesting level
2013 T A R B 21 17 62 of 30%. From 2011, awards were subject
to the same measures as the PSP and
2012 T A R B 7 7 86 vested in line with the figures shown in
the chart.
2011 T A R B 13 16 11 60
2010 T A 9 16 75 Performance measures key
R R&D new product
2009 T A 9 40 51
A Adjusted free cash flow
2008 T 35 65 T TSR
B Business diversification
2007 T 35 65 Lapsed
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Update on performance of ongoing LTI awards
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors in 2016 and 2017.
The following charts provide an estimate of the vesting levels taking into account performance to 31 December 2017.
Actual vesting levels will only be determined based on performance over the full three-year performance periods. The indications below
should therefore not be regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels.
2016 award – Performance update 2017 award – Performance update
Ranked 3rd 122% of Ranked 3rd 122% of
or above £13.5bn threshold or above £13.6bn threshold
Maximum Maximum
Commercially Commercially
Median £11.35bn sensitive Median £11.46bn sensitive
Threshold Threshold
TSR Adjusted free R&D new TSR Adjusted free R&D new
(1/3rd) cash flow product (1/3rd) cash flow product
Estimated vesting level (1/3rd) (1/3rd) Estimated vesting level (1/3rd) (1/3rd)
For threshold performance, 25% of each award will vest in respect of R&D new product and AFCF measures and 30% for the TSR element. The TSR comparator group remains
unchanged from that shown on page 118 in respect of the 2015 awards.
The adjusted free cash flow target for the 2016 award has been revised to reflect additional investments in key R&D projects and in the Priority Review Voucher for the Juluca launch
in the U.S.; please refer to pages 25 and 54 of the Annual Report. The Committee intends to disclose targets in full following the end of the performance period, in the 2018 Annual
report on remuneration.
2017 LTI awards
The levels of participation in the DABP in respect of 2016 bonus deferrals are shown in the table below. The table details the last matching
award in 2017 showing the maximum vesting potential in respect of 2016 bonuses. The table also shows the PSP award details for 2017.
DABP matching awards PSP awards
2016 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017
% of total bonus Number of Face value Award level as % Number of Face value
deferred shares of award(1) of base salary shares of award(2)
Emma Walmsley 50% 31,945 shares £0.504m 550% 356,939 shares £5.5m
Sir Andrew Witty 25% – – – – –
Simon Dingemans 50% 29,022 shares £0.458m 400% 195,147 shares £3m
Dr Patrick Vallance 50% 21,632 shares £0.341m 500% 252,345 shares £3.9m
Dr Moncef Slaoui 25% – – – – –
(1) The face value of the DABP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £15.77, being the closing price on 14 February 2017.
(2) The face value of the PSP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £15.455, being the closing price on 26 July 2017.
(3) The performance period for the 2017 awards is from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019.124
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
CEO pay comparison
2017 CEO total remuneration positioning Historic CEO remuneration
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
UK Single figure of 4,883 6,830 6,661 3,902 7,207 4,386 6,807 4,562 5,790
cross-industry
remuneration
group
Annual bonus 77% 97% 100% 42% 88% 44% 100% 59% 100%
award(1)
Global
pharmaceutical (% of maximum)
group
Vesting of LTI 69% 33% 38% 14% 31% 24% 70% 35% 35%
awards
European (% of maximum)
cross-industry
group (1) 2009 and 2010 bonus include amounts paid under the Operational Efficiency Bonus in
place for those years. The overall maximum bonus receivable was still subject to a limit
(£m) 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 of 200% of base salary.
Lower quartile Median to upper Emma Walmsley’s Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
to median quartile current position
UK
Remuneration includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on the GSK CEO Employees
Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology. 2017 2016
£000 £000 % change % change
Performance graph CEO Emma Walmsley Sir Andrew Witty
The following graph sets out the performance of the company relative Salary 1,003 1,115 (10)% 2.5%
to the FTSE 100 index and to the pharmaceutical performance Benefits 266 124 114% 0%
comparator group for the nine-year period to 31 December 2017. Annual bonus 1,540 2,167 (29)% (4)%
These indices were selected for comparison purposes as they reflect
both the primary index of which GSK is a constituent and the industry For the wider UK employee population, the salary increase includes
in which it operates. the annual salary review as well as any additional changes in the year,
e.g. on promotion. UK employee benefits are unchanged on the
previous year as there have been no changes to our benefit policies
300 or levels. It does not reflect any changes to the level of benefits an
280 individual may have received as a result of a change in role, e.g.
promotion. The UK population was considered to be the most
260
relevant comparison as it most closely reflects the economic
240
environment encountered by the CEO.
220
CEO ratio
200
The Committee intends to disclose pay ratios between GSK’s CEO
180
and the average of its UK employees in the Annual Report once the
160 methodology for calculating the ratio is finalised by legislation.
140
120
100
80
60
31.12.08 31.12.0931.12.10 31.12.1131.12.1231.12.13 31.12.1431.12.1531.12.16 31.12.17
GSK Total Return GSK Pharma Peers FTSE 100
Total Return Index* Total Return Index
* This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.125
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Additional remuneration disclosures
Relative importance of spend on pay Shareholder votes on remuneration matters
The table shows total employee pay and the Group’s dividends paid The table below provides details of the shareholder votes for the
to shareholders. most recent resolutions in respect of the Annual remuneration and
Remuneration policy reports.
2017 2016
£m £m
Votes
Total employee pay 9,122 8,212 Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
2017 AGM cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million)
Dividends 3,906 4,850
Remuneration report 3.5 96.39 3.61 67
The figures in the table above, which reflect payments made Remuneration policy 3.4 95.23 4.77 66
during each year and the impact of movements in exchange rates,
are as set out on pages 174 and 180. However, dividends declared External appointments for Executive Directors
in respect of 2017 were £3,911 million (2016 – £3,897 million) an No Executive Directors held remunerated external appointments
increase of 0.4%, excluding the special dividend of £969 million during 2017. Dr Hal Barron was a director of Juno Therapeutics, Inc.
declared in 2015 and paid in 2016. The company does not expect He retained the fees he received for that role.
to make any ordinary share repurchases in 2018. Payments to past Directors (audited)
Total employee pay is based on 99,349 employees, the average None
number of people employed during 2017 (2016 – 99,827). Payments for loss of office (audited)
Service contracts None.
The table below sets out the relevant dates of the Executive
Directors’ service contracts, which are available for review at the
company’s registered office during office hours and on gsk.com.
Each Executive Director’s service contract contains a 12-month
notice period, as set out in our Remuneration policy.
Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
Emma Walmsley 29.03.17 01.04.17 30.06.34
Simon Dingemans 08.09.10 04.01.11 30.04.28
Dr Patrick Vallance 19.12.16 01.01.17 31.03.25
Dr Hal Barron 16.12.17 01.01.18 31.12.24
Remuneration governance
Role of the Committee Membership
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration The members of the Committee, together with their appointment
policy so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its dates, are set out below:
executives.
Committee members Committee member since
The Remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to ensure that it
is consistent with the company’s scale and scope of operations, Urs Rohner 1 January 2015
Chair (Chair since 7 May 2015)
supports the business strategy and growth plans and helps drive
the creation of shareholder value. Vindi Banga 1 January 2016
Terms of reference Dr Vivienne Cox 1 January 2017
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the Judy Lewent 1 January 2013
company’s website. The terms of reference are reviewed at least
annually and were last revised in January 2018 to reflect best Committee meetings usually include a closed session, during which
practice and corporate governance developments. only members of the Committee are present. Other individuals may
also be invited to attend Committee meetings during the year.
Governance
Executives and other Committee attendees are not involved in any
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to
decisions, and are not present at any discussions regarding their
be independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with
own remuneration.
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are
given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 82 to 85.
See page 88 for Committee member attendance levels.126
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration governance continued
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and attends Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’
all meetings. Other attendees at the Committee include: Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct
in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The code
Committee attendees
of conduct can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
Regular Attends as
Attendee attendee required Deloitte provided independent commentary on matters under
CEO ✓ consideration by the Committee and updates on market practice
CFO ✓ and legislative requirements for part of 2017, prior to Willis Towers
Watson’s appointment, and their fees for advice during that period
Head of Human Resources ✓
were £78,330. Fees were charged on a time and materials basis.
Head of Reward ✓
Deloitte also provided other consulting, tax and assurance services
Committee Adviser (Deloitte/Willis Towers Watson) ✓ to GSK during the year. However, the Committee is satisfied that this
Judy Lewent and Vindi Banga, as members of the Audit & Risk did not compromise Deloitte’s independence.
and Remuneration Committees, provide input on the Audit & Risk Willis Towers Watson’s fees for advice provided during 2017 were
Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and oversight of $64,571. Willis Towers Watson provided additional market data to
any risk factors relevant to remuneration decisions. the Committee.
Adviser to the Committee Committee evaluation
The company undertook a tender process during 2017 and appointed The Committee’s annual evaluation was externally facilitated by
Willis Towers Watson as independent adviser to the Committee with Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation. It was concluded
effect from 1 July 2017. The Committee Chairman agrees the that the Committee continued to operate effectively. In terms of
protocols under which Willis Towers Watson provides advice and the enhancements to the Committee’s work, it was agreed that Board
Committee is satisfied that such advice has been objective and members would be provided with more detailed updates on matters
independent. being considered by the Committee.
What the Committee did during 2017
Areas of Committee focus Items discussed
Remuneration policy – Proposed Remuneration policy for 2017
The Committee sets the broad structure for the Remuneration policy and – Engagement with shareholders
determines the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and – Shareholder feedback on proposed Remuneration policy
other corporate officers for Board approval.
Salary review – Remuneration environment (including wider employee trends)
The Committee periodically reviews and considers the remuneration – Executive Director and CET benchmarking, competitiveness and GSK
environment of Executive Directors and CET, approving annual amendments comparator groups
as necessary. – Executive Director and CET salary recommendations and increases for 2018
– Setting remuneration for Dr Hal Barron
Annual bonus – CEO, Executive Director and CET 2016 bonus recommendations and 2017
The Committee is responsible for setting specific performance measures bonus objectives
for the Annual bonus. – R&D Annual bonus target metric
LTI plans – Review of Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan rules
The Committee is responsible for approving LTI plan rule changes, grants, – LTI performance outcomes and vesting of LTI awards for CET and below
assessments of performance, and the vesting of LTI awards for the Executive – LTI grants for CET and below
Directors, CET and below.
Governance and other areas of focus – Committee evaluation process
The Committee adheres to a robust remuneration governance framework, – 2016 Remuneration report
ensuring alignment between internal actions and external reporting/ – Remuneration considerations for 2017
compliance requirements.
– AGM and Remuneration report feedback, the external remuneration
environment and performance target disclosure for incentives plans
– Chairman’s fees
– 2017 Remuneration report disclosures
– Remuneration Committee external adviser tender process
– Gender pay group reporting127
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2017 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors’ fees that applied during 2017 are set
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non-Executive out in the table below:
Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid by other
Per annum
companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to the limits
Standard annual fee £85,000
contained in GSK’s Articles of Association.
Supplemental fees
Chairman’s fees Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
The Chairman, Philip Hampton, is paid a fee of £700,000 per annum, Senior Independent Director £30,000
of which he has elected to take 25% in GSK shares. The Chairman’s Scientific/Medical Experts
fees were reviewed during the year but were not changed. Chairs of the Remuneration, Corporate
Responsibility and Science Committees
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed during the year Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental £7,500 per meeting
travel to meetings
following the last increase in January 2013. It was agreed to increase
the supplemental fees for the Chairs of the Remuneration and
Corporate Responsibility Committees from £20,000 to £30,000
from January 2017. The Chair of the new Science Committee also
receives a supplementary fee of £30,000. All other fees remain
unchanged. A minimum of 25% of fees will continue to be delivered
as shares or ADS deferred until the Non-Executive Director steps
down from the Board.
The audited table below sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and shares or
ADS. Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan are set out on page 128. Non-Executive Directors’ fees that are
paid in a currency other than GBP are converted using an average exchange rate that is reviewed from time to time.
2017 2016(5)
Non-Executive Directors’
Fixed fees Fixed fees
emoluments (000) (audited)
Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £92 £31 £9 £132 £92 £31 £7 £130
Vindi Banga – £123 £8 £131 – £112 £8 £120
Dr Vivienne Cox £69 £23 £14 £106 £32 £11 £5 £48
Lynn Elsenhans £15 £137 £70 £222 £14 £128 £44 £186
Dr Laurie Glimcher (1) – $69 $32 $101 – – – –
Dr Jesse Goodman $216 $72 $140 $428 $165 $55 $187 $407
Philip Hampton £525 £175 £20 £720 £525 £175 £13 £713
Judy Lewent $239 $80 $157 $476 $239 $80 $177 $496
Urs Rohner £92 £31 £16 £139 £84 £28 £21 £133
Former directors:
Dr Stephanie Burns (2) – – – – $51 $27 $16 $94
Stacey Cartwright (3) – – £5 £5 £69 £23 £5 £97
Sir Deryck Maughan (2) – – – – $28 $55 $44 $127
Dr Daniel Podolsky (2) – – – – $56 $50 $63 $169
Jing Ulrich (4) – – – – – – £3 £3
Hans Wijers (2) – – £6 £6 £32 £5 £7 £44
(1) Dr Laurie Glimcher was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2017.
(2) Dr Stephanie Burns, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Daniel Podolsky and Hans Wijers all retired from the Board on 5 May 2016.
(3) Stacey Cartwright retired from the Board on 31 December 2016.
(4) Jing Ulrich retired from the Board on 7 May 2015.
(5) The 2016 figures have been restated to remove the tax gross up on the flights of Non UK-Domiciled Directors for travel to UK Board meetings, reflecting the fact that tax was not due
on those flights in the 2016/17 income tax year. At the time of publishing the 2016 Annual Report, it was believed that income tax would be due.128
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The interests of the Directors of the company in office during 2017 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are shown in the tables below.
Total share plan interests as at 31 December 2017 or date of retirement
Total directors’ interests as at Shares/ADS Options
31 December
2017 (a)Unvested and Unvested and (a)Unvested and Unvested and
2 March or date of 1 January not subject to subject to not subject to subject to Vested but Exercised in
2018 retirement 2017 performance performance performance performance not exercised the year
Executive Directors
Shares
Emma Walmsley(a,b,c,d,h) 280,742 147,665 110,588 – 782,759 75,959 75,959 137,040 19,814
Sir Andrew Witty(a,b,c,f,h) 1,090,556 1,034,521 90,802 1,007,883 111,859 76,618 – 90,907
Simon Dingemans(a,b,c,d,f,h) 525,870 329,298 263,245 – 658,209 88,297 87,575 – 30,169
Dr Patrick Vallance(a,b,c,d,f,h) 413,952 303,733 299,677 – 756,538 75,980 75,092 – 35,817
Dr Moncef Slaoui 28,475 28,473 – – – – – –
ADS
Dr Hal Barron(i) 1,644 – – – – – – – –
Dr Moncef Slaoui(a,c,e,g,h) 234,548 295,974 118,557 356,422 – – 3,300 –
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors
Total directors’ interests as at Number of shares or ADS
31 December 1 January Dividends Dividends
2017 2017 reinvested reinvested
2 March or date of or date of after year 31 December during the Allocated 31 December
2018 retirement appointment end 2017 Paid out year & elected 2016
Non-Executive Directors
Shares(j)
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 31,654 29,306 25,499 1,785 29,306 – 1,850 1,957 25,499
Vindi Banga 53,831 50,802 42,705 779 15,602 – 271 7,826 7,505
Dr Vivienne Cox 2,295 1,804 323 75 1,804 – 4 1,477 323
Philip Hampton 42,452 37,398 25,279 1,631 30,480 – 924 11,195 18,361
Urs Rohner 6,455 5,592 3,488 301 5,591 – 187 1,916 3,488
Stacey Cartwright – – 9,510 – – 9,510
ADS(j)
Lynn Elsenhans 27,273 24,399 18,205 1,224 23,398 – 1,177 5,016 17,205
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1,873 350 – 5 350 – – 350 –
Dr Jesse Goodman 3,236 2,610 – 89 2,610 – – 2,610 –
Judy Lewent 22,828 21,630 19,052 609 11,463 – 626 1,951 8,886
Dr Daniel Podolsky – – 42,020 3,047 – 38,973
a) Unvested options not subject to performance of 75,959 for Emma Walmsley represent bonus deferrals.
Unvested shares not subject to performance of 90,802 for Sir Andrew Witty represent 25% of the shares awarded at the end of the three-year performance
periods for the 2013 and 2014 PSP grants, together with subsequent re-invested dividends. These shares are subject to further two-year holding periods.
Sir Andrew’s unvested options not subject to performance of 111,859 represent bonus deferrals of 110,971and Share Save options of 888.
Unvested options not subject to performance of 88,297 for Simon Dingemans represent bonus deferrals of 87,575 and Share Save options of 722.
Unvested options not subject to performance of 75,980 for Dr Patrick Vallance represent bonus deferrals of 75,092 and Share Save options of 888.
Unvested ADS not subject to performance of 118,557 for Dr Moncef Slaoui represent bonus deferrals of 46,425, deferrals under the PSP plan of 67,302 and
Share Value Plan awards for his PCA of 4,830.
b) Total Directors’ interests includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline Share Reward Plan. During 2017, Emma Walmsley, Simon Dingemans and
Dr Patrick Vallance were each awarded 97 shares under the plan. The total number of shares held within the plan are as follows:
Share Reward Plan (Shares) 2 March 2018 31 December 2017 1 January 2017
Emma Walmsley 1,274 1,219 972
Sir Andrew Witty – – 3,541
Simon Dingemans 1,703 1,642 1,375
Dr Patrick Vallance 3,348 3,263 2,917
Dr Hal Barron is not and Dr Moncef Slaoui was not eligible to participate in the Share Reward Plan, as this is only open to UK employees.129
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
c) Total directors’ interests includes options over shares or ADS resulting from the deferral of bonus (and the subsequent re-investment of dividends) under the
DABP. The totals shown in the table below include bonus deferrals, but exclude any unvested matching awards which are subject to ongoing performance
criteria. The amounts represent the gross share and ADS balances prior to the sale of any shares or ADS to satisfy tax liabilities.
31 December 2017
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (Bonus deferrals) 2 March 2018 or date of retirement 1 January 2017
Emma Walmsley Shares 123,451 75,959 55,377
Sir Andrew Witty Shares 110,971 142,752
Simon Dingemans Shares 113,066 87,575 76,811
Dr Patrick Vallance Shares 98,955 75,092 76,601
Dr Moncef Slaoui ADS 46,425 56,646
d) Total directors’ interests at 2 March 2018 includes any shares or ADS which vested due to performance being met under elements of the DABP and PSP
(2015-2017 awards), less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts (see pages 132 to 137 for further details).
e) For Dr Moncef Slaoui, total directors’ interests includes ADS purchased within the 401(k) Plan and the US Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP), and
ADS awarded to Dr Slaoui’s PCA under the Share Value Plan (SVP). The relevant balances are as follows:
Dr Moncef Slaoui (ADS) 2 March 2018 31 March 2017 1 January 2017
US Retirement Savings Plans 18,268 16,452
Share Value Plan 4,830 7,130
As an Executive Director, Dr Slaoui was not eligible to receive awards under the SVP. The SVP awards shown above reflect the holdings of Dr Slaoui’s PCA,
who is also an employee of GSK. The awards are subject to three-year vesting periods and vesting is contingent on continued employment within GSK. Any
gains which arose on vesting are not included in Dr Slaoui’s total remuneration figures. Dr Slaoui’s total share plan interests also include PSP awards held by
his PCA. These awards are subject to performance criteria relevant to employees below the CET.
f) Share Save Plan
For Sir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans and Dr Patrick Vallance, the unvested options not subject to performance include holdings of 888, 722 and 888
respectively in the Share Save Plan, in which Sir Andrew participated and Mr Dingemans and Dr Vallance participate on the same terms as all other
employees. Mr Dingemans was granted 248 options under the plan on 30 November 2017.
g) The ADS vested but unexercised options totalling 3,300 for Dr Moncef Slaoui represent the ADS options held by his PCA.130
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
h) The following table sets out details of options (including nil-cost options under the DABP) exercised during 2017 by Executive Directors. Dr Moncef Slaoui
did not exercise any options during the year.
Number of shares Market Gain on exercise
Type of award Date of grant under option Date of exercise Grant price price at exercise (000)
Emma Walmsley
DABP – deferral 12.02.14 14,860 16.02.17 – £16.35 £243
DABP – matching 12.02.14 4,954 16.02.17 – £16.35 £81
19,814 £324
Sir Andrew Witty
Share Save 29.10.15 419 05.05.17 £10.13 £15.88 £2
DABP – deferral 12.02.14 67,867 16.02.17 – £16.34 £1,109
DABP – matching 12.02.14 22,621 16.02.17 – £16.34 £370
90,907 £1,481
Simon Dingemans
Share Save 29.10.14 238 01.12.17 £11.31 £12.90 –
DABP – deferral 12.02.14 22,448 16.02.17 – £16.39 £368
DABP – matching 12.02.14 7,483 16.02.17 – £16.39 £123
30,169 £491
Dr Patrick Vallance
DABP – deferral 12.02.14 26,863 16.02.17 – £16.36 £440
DABP – matching 12.02.14 8,954 16.02.17 – £16.36 £146
35,817 £586
In respect of options under the Share Save Plan, the remuneration receivable by an Executive Director is calculated on the date that the options first vest.
The remuneration is the difference between the amount the Executive Director is required to pay to buy the shares and the total value of the shares on the
vesting date. If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the options on the vesting date, any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount
realised will be due to movements in the share price between the vesting date and the date of exercise. This increase or decrease in value is the result of
an investment decision by the Executive Director and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
In respect of nil-cost options under the DABP, the bonus which is deferred by the Director is recorded as remuneration (under Annual bonus) for the year to
which it relates. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises this remuneration, the total of the amounts received in re-invested dividends prior
to vesting and the gains or losses resulting from movements in the share price between the dates of grant and exercise for the initial bonus amount deferred and
the dates of dividend reinvestment and exercise for the re-invested dividends.
For the matching element of the DABP, the remuneration of the Executive Director is recorded in the year that the performance period ends and represents the
number of vested shares multiplied by the price at vesting. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises the total of this remuneration and the
gain or loss resulting from the movement in the share price between vesting and exercise.
For Emma Walmsley:
– The gain of £242,961 recorded following the exercise of the 14,860 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2013 comprises
remuneration of £205,315 recorded in 2013 as Annual bonus and a net gain of £37,646 relating to the re-investment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £80,998 recorded following the exercise of the 4,954 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of £79,016
recorded in 2016 in relation to the DABP (see page 132) and an investment gain of £1,982 relating to the movement in the share price between the vesting
and exercise dates.
For Sir Andrew Witty:
– A gain of £2,409 resulted from the exercise of 419 options granted under the Share Save Plan. The number of shares was reduced from 888 to 419 as
Sir Andrew retired on 31 March 2017, part of the way through the Share Save contract.
– The gain of £1,108,947 recorded following the exercise of the 67,867 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2013 comprises
remuneration of £937,500 recorded in 2013 as Annual bonus and a net gain of £171,447 relating to the re-investment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £369,521 recorded following the exercise of the 22,621 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of
£360,805 recorded in 2016 in relation to the DABP (see page 132) and an investment gain of £8,716 relating to the movement in the share price between
the vesting and exercise dates.131
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
For Simon Dingemans:
– A gain of £378 resulted from the exercise of 216 options granted under the Share Save Plan.
– The gain of £367,923 recorded following the exercise of the 22,448 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2013 comprises
remuneration of £310,139 recorded in 2013 as Annual bonus and a net gain of £57,784 relating to the re-investment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £122,646 recorded following the exercise of the 7,483 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of
£119,354 recorded in 2016 in relation to the DABP (see page 133) and an investment gain of £3,292 relating to the movement in the share price between
the vesting and exercise dates.
For Dr Patrick Vallance:
– The gain of £439,479 recorded following the exercise of the 26,863 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2013 comprises
remuneration of £371,130 recorded in 2013 as Annual bonus and a net gain of £68,349 relating to the re-investment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £146,461 recorded following the exercise of the 8,954 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of
£142,816 recorded in 2016 in relation to the DABP (see page 133) and an investment gain of £3,645 relating to the movement in the share price between
the vesting and exercise dates.
i) Dr Hal Barron was appointed to the Board from 1 January 2018.
j) For Non-Executive Directors, total interests include shares or ADS received as part or all of their fees under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation
Plan. Note that dividends received on shares or ADS under the plan during 2017 and January 2018 were converted into shares or ADS as at 7 February 2018.132
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in office during 2017 in respect of DABP matching awards. Market price at
grant and at vesting represent the closing share prices from the business day prior to those dates.
Performance period
Emma Walmsley – Shares
2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019
Market price at grant £16.43 £15.20 £13.59 £15.77
Unvested at 31 December 2016 14,682 11,706 28,989 –
Granted – – – 31,945
Face value at grant (000) – – – £504
Dividends reinvested 178 600 1,485 1,234
Vested (4,954) – – –
Lapsed (9,906) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 12,306 30,474 33,179
Dividends reinvested 176 435 474
Vested (8,614) – –
Lapsed (3,868) – –
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – 30,909 33,653
Vested shares
Number of shares 4,954 8,614
Market price at vesting £15.95 £13.00
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2016 £79 –
Remuneration for 2017 – £112
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant £16.43 £15.20 £13.59
Unvested at 31 December 2016 67,052 33,606 42,094
Dividends reinvested 814 1,721 2,156
Vested (22,621) – –
Lapsed (45,245) – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 35,327 44,250
Dividends reinvested – 504 632
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – 35,831 44,882
Vested shares
Number of shares 22,621
Market price at vesting £15.95
Gain: (000)
Remuneration for 2016 £361133
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards continued
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019
Market price at grant £16.43 £15.20 £13.59 £15.77
Unvested at 31 December 2016 22,179 16,350 38,282 –
Granted – – – 29,022
Face value at grant (000) – – – £458
Dividends reinvested 269 838 1,961 1,121
Vested (7,483) – – –
Lapsed (14,965) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 17,188 40,243 30,143
Dividends reinvested 245 575 430
Vested (12,030) – –
Lapsed (5,403) – –
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – 40,818 30,573
Vested shares
Number of shares 7,483 12,030
Market price at vesting £15.95 £13.00
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2016 £119 –
Remuneration for 2017 – £156
Performance period
Dr Patrick Vallance – Shares
2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019
Market price at grant £16.43 £15.20 £13.59 £15.77
Unvested at 31 December 2016 26,541 19,058 31,002 –
Granted – – – 21,632
Face value at grant (000) – – – £341
Dividends reinvested 322 976 1,588 836
Vested (8,954) – – –
Lapsed (17,909) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 20,034 32,590 22,468
Dividends reinvested 286 465 321
Vested (14,022) – –
Lapsed (6,298) – –
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – 33,055 22,789
Vested shares
Number of shares 8,954 14,022
Market price at vesting £15.95 £13.00
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2016 £143 –
Remuneration for 2017 – £182134
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards continued
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant $54.17 $46.25 $39.13
Unvested at 31 December 2016 21,394 13,322 21,930
Dividends reinvested 251 662 1,089
Vested (7,215) – –
Lapsed (14,430) – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 13,984 23,019
Dividends reinvested – 193 318
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – 14,177 23,337
Vested ADS
Number of ADS 7,215
Market price at vesting $40.57
Gain: (000)
Remuneration for 2016 $293135
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Performance Share Plan awards
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in office during 2017 in respect of PSP awards. Market price at grant and at
vesting represent the closing share prices on those dates.
Performance period
Emma Walmsley – Shares
2014-2016 2015-2017 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019 2018-2020
Market price at grant £16.43 £15.20 £14.01 £13.59 £15.46 £12.91
Unvested at 31 December 2016 121,203 124,275 64,415 212,155 – –
Granted – – – – 356,939 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – – 5,518 –
Dividends reinvested 1,471 6,367 3,300 10,869 4,440 –
Vested (40,888) – – – – –
Lapsed (81,786) – – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 130,642 67,715 223,024 361,379 –
Granted – – – – 437,997
Face value at grant (000) – – – – £5,655
Dividends reinvested 1,865 967 3,185 5,160 –
Vested (91,430) (47,391) – – –
Lapsed (41,077) (21,291) – – –
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – – 226,209 366,539 437,997
Vested shares:
Number of shares 40,888 91,430 47,391
Market price at vesting £16.17 £13.00 £13.00
Total
Gain: (000) (000) (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2016 £661 – – £661
Remuneration for 2017 – £1,189 £616 £1,805
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant £16.43 £15.20 £13.59
Unvested at 31 December 2016 466,222 478,034 517,767
Dividends reinvested 5,656 24,492 26,527
Vested (157,279) – –
Lapsed (314,599) – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 502,526 544,294
Dividends reinvested – 7,175 7,772
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – 509,701 552,066
Vested shares:
Number of shares 157,279
Market price at vesting £16.17
Gain: (000)
Remuneration for 2016 £2,543136
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019 2018-2020
Market price at grant £16.43 £15.20 £13.59 £15.46 £12.91
Unvested at 31 December 2016 205,161 210,358 227,827 – –
Granted – – – 195,147 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – £3,017 –
Dividends reinvested 2,489 10,778 11,672 2,427 –
Vested (69,210) – – – –
Lapsed (138,440) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 221,136 239,499 197,574 –
Granted – – – 239,442
Face value at grant (000) – – – £3,091
Dividends reinvested 3,158 3,420 2,821 –
Vested (154,763) – – –
Lapsed (69,531) – – –
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – 242,919 200,395 239,442
Vested shares:
Number of shares 69,210 154,763
Market price at vesting £16.17 £13.00
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2016 £1,119 –
Remuneration for 2017 – £2,012
Performance period
Dr Patrick Vallance – Shares
2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019
Market price at grant £16.53 £15.20 £13.59 £15.46
Unvested at 31 December 2016 208,105 213,377 263,258 –
Granted – – – 252,345
Face value at grant (000) – – – £3,901
Dividends reinvested 2,525 10,932 13,488 3,139
Vested (70,203) – – –
Lapsed (140,427) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 224,309 276,746 255,484
Dividends reinvested 3,203 3,952 3,648
Vested (156,984) – –
Lapsed (70,528) – –
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – 280,698 259,132
Vested shares:
Number of shares 70,203 156,984
Market price at vesting £16.17 £13.00
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2016 £1,135 –
Remuneration for 2017 – £2,041137
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant $54.17 $46.25 $39.13
Unvested at 31 December 2016 131,350 145,747 166,901
Dividends reinvested 1,539 7,239 8,290
Vested (44,292) – –
Lapsed (88,597) – –
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – 152,986 175,191
Dividends reinvested – 2,115 2,421
Unvested at 2 March 2018 – 155,101 177,612
Vested ADS
Number of ADS 44,292
Market price at vesting $40.92
Gain: (000)
Remuneration for 2016 $1,812
Remuneration for 2017 –
Dr Hal Barron was appointed to the Board from 1 January 2018. The following table provides details of PSP awards granted to him on
14 February 2018:
Performance period
Dr Hal Barron – Granted ADS
2018-2020
Number of ADS 233,132
Market price at grant $36.46
Face value at grant (000) $8,500
Unvested at 2 March 2018 233,132138
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the group’). For this purpose,
the group is defined as the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, other members of the CET and the Company Secretary. For the financial
year 2017, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during which they served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2017 (£)
Total compensation paid 26,230,342
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 1,048,611
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 397,722
During 2017, members of the group (and one PCA who is also an employee of GSK) were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s
various executive share plans, as set out in the table below.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2017 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 206,177 21,220 25,978 2,675
Performance Share Plan 1,322,859 225,442 179,820 24,792
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) – – 5,674 1,306
Share Value Plan(b) 11,060 – – –
At 2 March 2018, the group and their PCAs had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Interests awarded under the
various executive share plans are described in Note 43 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on page 225.
Interests at 2 March 2018 Shares ADS
Owned 1,396,375 273,511
Unexercised options 164,680 12,270
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 978,751 93,450
Performance Share Plan 4,772,105 816,020
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) 143,018 6,322
Share Value Plan(b) 30,699 20,206
(a) Notional shares and ADS.
(b) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.139
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other share plans and dilution limits
All-employee share plans Dilution limits
The Executive Directors participate in various all-employee share All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution
plans, including Share Save and Share Reward, HM Revenue & limits consistent with the guidelines published by the Investment
Customs approved plans. Association. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten-year period for
all plans and 5% in any rolling ten-year period for executive share
Participants of the Share Save Plan may save up to £250 a month
plans. Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last
from their net salaries for a fixed term of three years and at the end
ten years up to 31 December 2017 is as follows:
of the savings period they have the option to buy GSK shares at a
discount of up to 20% of the market price set at the launch of each
savings contract.
All GSK employee share plans
Participants of the Share Reward Plan contribute up to £125 a
month from their gross salaries to purchase GSK shares and the
company matches the number of GSK shares bought each month. 1.85% 10%
Monthly saving
Share Save (£) Share Reward (£) 0 02 04 06 08 10
Emma Walmsley – 125
Executive share plans
Simon Dingemans 225 125
Dr Patrick Vallance 250 125
1.52% 5%
0 02 04 06 08 10
Actual Limit140
GSK Annual Report 2017
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2018
Salary Long Term Incentive plans
The Committee determined the following salary increases taking into
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) awards
account the average increase for the wider workforce:
The table below provides details of the mandatory deferral in the
DABP in respect of 2017 Annual bonus payments and associated
2018 % change
awards granted.
Wider workforce (1) – 2.5
Emma Walmsley £1,028,100 2.5 % of total bonus 2018 DABP award
deferred into shares (number shares)
Simon Dingemans £772,800 2.5
Emma Walmsley 50 58,889
Dr Patrick Vallance £780,000 0
Simon Dingemans 50 41,674
Dr Hal Barron $1,700,000 N/A
Dr Patrick Vallance 50 43,111
(1) Based on the average increased budget for employees below the level of CET in the UK.
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards
Benefits
The table below provides details of awards granted under the PSP:
No significant changes to the provision of benefits are proposed
for 2018. For full details of the policy in relation to benefits, please 2018 PSP award 2018 PSP award
refer to the details in the 2017 Remuneration policy report on pages (% of salary) (number shares)
137 to 146 of the 2016 Annual Report, available at www.gsk.com in Emma Walmsley 550 437,997
the Investors section. Simon Dingemans 400 239,442
Dr Hal Barron(1) 500 233,132
Pension
The table below provides an overview of the pension arrangements (1) A ward in form of ADS
for each ongoing Executive Director in 2018. Details of Dr Hal
Barron’s pension arrangements are set out on page 141. Performance measures
The metrics for the PSP awards remain unchanged. The 2018
Pension contribution awards will continue to be based on three equally weighted
Emma Walmsley(1) 20% of base salary and matching contributions measures:
Simon Dingemans 20% of base salary in lieu of pension
– R&D new product performance;
(1) A s a member of the defined contribution plan, is eligible to receive matching – adjusted free cash flow; and
contributions of up to 5% on the first £33,333 of her salary in accordance with the
terms of the plan (i.e. £1,667).
– relative TSR.
Annual bonus
TSR will continue to be measured against global pharmaceutical
No significant changes to the operation of the Annual Bonus plan,
peers. As in prior years, targets for R&D new products are
in accordance with the shareholder approved 2017 Remuneration
commercially sensitive at the time of grant. However, the
policy, are proposed for 2018.
Committee intends to disclose targets in full following the end
of the performance period.
Target Maximum
Emma Walmsley In addition, the Committee will continue to provide shareholders with
Simon Dingemans 100% 200% interim performance updates for this element over the course of the
performance period.
Dr Hal Barron
The adjusted free cash flow targets will be disclosed to shareholders
The financial measure is Adjusted Group PBIT (previously Core on a prospective basis at the time of grant, and will thereafter be
Group PBIT). Inevitably, targets linked directly to the financial and reported in the 2018 Annual report on remuneration.
strategic plan are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not
consider it appropriate to disclose annual bonus targets during the
year as it may result in competitive harm. However, details of the
performance targets will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in
the 2018 Annual Report.141
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2018 continued
Termination arrangements for Dr Patrick Vallance Remuneration arrangements for new Executive Director
As announced in 2017, Dr Patrick Vallance will leave the Board on Dr Hal Barron joined GSK as Chief Scientific Officer and President,
31 March 2018. R&D on 1 January 2018, and is an Executive Director. A summary of
his remuneration is set out below:
As Dr Vallance is a voluntary leaver, he will not receive any severance
payment when he leaves the company. Salary, bonus and outstanding US$ Notes
incentive awards will be treated in accordance with the shareholder Base salary $1,700,000 The comparator group for pay for the top
approved 2017 Remuneration policy. R&D position is the global pharmaceutical
comparator group.
Full disclosure of all payments made upon cessation will be included
Annual bonus $1,700,000 The on-target bonus would be 100% with
in the 2018 Annual report on remuneration. a maximum of 200% as for the outgoing
President, R&D.
Remuneration element Summary of treatment
Award of LTIs $4,250,000 This assumes an expected value of 50% of
Annual bonus Will not receive any bonus for 2018.
an award of performance shares under the
PSP and DABP Will not be granted PSP awards in 2018 but company’s 2017 Performance Share Plan
will defer 50% of 2017 bonus into DABP. at a 5x multiple of base salary as for the
Outstanding PSP Any awards not vested prior to Dr Vallance’s outgoing President, R&D.
and DABP matching awards departure will lapse when he leaves GSK. Share Ownership 300% of This is in line with GSK’s 2017
DABP deferred bonus Awards in respect of bonuses deferred in Requirement base salary Remuneration policy.
awards respect of 2017 and prior years will vest at (SOR)
the normal vesting dates.
Pension Pension is in line with GSK’s 2017
Remuneration policy and arrangements for
In addition to the above, Dr Vallance will be required to maintain a other executives based in the US.
shareholding equal to his respective share ownership requirement
Benefits Benefits will be in line with GSK’s 2017
for at least 12 months after leaving the company.
Remuneration policy.142
GSK Annual Report 2017
2017 Remuneration policy summary
Executive Director remuneration policy
The company’s Remuneration policy was approved on 4 May 2017 at GSK’s Annual General Meeting. The full policy is available at
www.gsk.com in the Investors section. The following is a summary of this policy.
Value earned
Annual Total
Salary Benefits Pension from LTI
bonus remuneration
awards
A. Fixed pay B. Pay for performance
Salary T o provide a core reward for the role. Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre individuals needed to deliver the Group’s
strategic priorities.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Individual’s role, experience and performance and There is no formal maximum limit and, ordinarily, salary The overall performance of the
independently sourced data for relevant comparator groups increases will be broadly in line with the average increases individual is a key consideration
considered when determining salary levels. for the wider GSK workforce. when determining salary
increases.
However, increases may be higher to reflect a change in the
scope of the individual’s role, responsibilities or experience.
Salary adjustments may also reflect wider market conditions
in the geography in which the individual operates.
Details of current salary levels are set out in the Annual
report on remuneration on pages 118 and 140.
Benefits Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre individuals to execute the business strategy.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors are generally eligible to receive There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs can None.
benefits in line with the policy for other employees which fluctuate depending on changes in provider cost and
may vary by location. These include travel allowances individual circumstances.
(including spouse/partner travel), healthcare, life
Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the Annual
assurance/death in service (where not provided as part of
report on remuneration on page 118.
the individual’s pension arrangements), personal financial
advice and contractual post-retirement benefits.
Pension Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement income.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Pension arrangements are structured in accordance The policy for all current Executive Directors and new external None.
with the plans operated in the country in which the recruits is:
individual is likely to retire. Where the individual chooses UK: – 20% of salary contribution to defined
not to become a member of the pension plan, cash in lieu contribution plan and further 5% in matched
of the relevant pension contribution is paid instead. contributions subject to any relevant cap and in
line with implementation principles for other
New Executive Directors in the UK will be entitled either
members of the plan; or
to join the defined contribution pension plan or to receive
– 20% of salary cash payment in lieu of pension
a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution. Where an
contribution.
individual is a member of a GSK legacy defined benefit
US: Eligible for the same benefits as other US senior
plan, a defined contribution plan or an alternative
executives:
pension plan arrangement and is subsequently
– C ash Balance Pension Plan and Supplemental
appointed to the Board, he or she may remain a
Cash Balance Pension Plan, including Executive
member of that plan.
Pension Credit, provide maximum contribution of
38% of base salary across all pension plans.
– GSK 401(k) plan (formerly the US Retirement
Savings Plan) and the Executive Supplemental
Savings Plan with core contributions of 2% of
salary and bonus and matched contributions of
4% of salary and bonus .143
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Executive Director remuneration policy summary continued
Annual To incentivise and recognise execution of the business strategy on an annual basis. Rewards the achievement of stretching annual
bonus financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Financial, operational and business targets are set The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is Based on a combination of
at the start of the year by the Committee and bonus 200% of salary. For threshold performance, the bonus financial targets and individual/
levels are determined by the Committee based on pay-out will be nil. strategic performance
performance against those targets. objectives, with the majority
For target performance, the bonus payout will be 50% of
of the bonus assessed against
Individual objectives are set at the start of the year by the maximum opportunity.
the financial measures. The
the Committee and performance against objectives is
weighting between different
assessed by the Committee.
measures will be determined
Executive Directors are required to defer 50% of any each year according to
bonus earned into shares, or ADS as appropriate, for business priorities.
three years. Deferred shares vest at the end of the
three years.
LTI awards To incentivise and recognise delivery of the longer term business priorities, financial growth and increases in shareholder value
compared to other pharmaceutical companies. To provide alignment with shareholder interests, a retention element, to encourage
long-term shareholding and discourage excessive risk taking.
PSP
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Conditional awards are made annually with vesting The normal maximum award limits that may be granted Based on a combination of
dependent on the achievement of performance under the PSP to an individual in any one year are set financial, share price related
conditions over three years and are subject to an out in the table below: and strategic performance
additional two-year holding period. conditions which are aligned
% of salary
to the company’s strategic
The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting CEO 650 plan. Up to 30% of awards
outcome (either up or down) to ensure that the
CFO 400 will vest at threshold
overall outcome reflects underlying business
Other Executive Directors 500 performance.
performance over the vesting period.
DABP (current)
Operation
For bonus payments from 2018 onwards, Executive
Directors are required to defer 50% of any bonus
earned into shares for three years.
DABP (legacy, pre 2018)
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
For bonus payments until 2017, Executive Directors were These deferred shares were matched up to a maximum Outstanding matching
required to defer 25% of any bonus earned into shares of 1:1 subject to the achievement of performance awards are subject to the
for three years. They could also voluntarily defer up to an conditions over three years. Matching awards were same measures as awards
additional 25% of any bonus earned. conditional shares or nil-cost options and eligible for made under the PSP in any
dividend equivalents. given year.
Share Ownership Requirements (SOR)
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are required to continue to satisfy these requirements
they are required to build and maintain significant holdings of shares in for a minimum of 12 months following retirement from GSK.
GSK over time. The SOR requirement for the CEO is 650% of salary,
and the SOR requirement for other Executive Directors is 300% of salary.
For details of our policy on clawback/malus, recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the full 2017 Remuneration
policy report on pages 138 to 146 of the 2016 Annual Report, available at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.144
GSK Annual Report 2017
2017 Remuneration policy summary continued
Scenarios for future total remuneration
The charts opposite provide illustrations of the future total
remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of the Emma Walmsley, CEO (£000)
remuneration opportunity granted to each of them in 2018 under the
policy. A range of potential outcomes is provided for each Executive
Director and the underlying assumptions are set out below. 10,000 £9.20m
61%
All scenarios:
8,000
– 2018 base salary has been used.
– 2017 benefits and pension figures have been used for the CEO, 6,000
CFO and the outgoing President, R&D, i.e. based on actual
£4.02m
amounts received in 2017 in respect of the ongoing policy. As the 4,000
37%
new Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D was not in role 22%
during 2017, the benefits value for this role is based on the value of 2,000 £1.49m 26%
benefits (excluding Other benefits and Travel) and including 100% 37% 16%
pension contribution based on policy.
0
Fixed Expected Maximum
– The amounts shown under value of PSP awards are based on
the relevant multiples for 2018. They do not include amounts in
Simon Dingemans, CFO (£000)
respect of dividends reinvested and do not factor in changes to
share price over the vesting period.
Fixed: 6,000 £5.70m
– None of the pay for performance (Annual bonus and PSP) 54%
would be payable. 4,000
Expected: £2.66m
2,000 31% 27%
– For the Annual bonus, it is assumed that target performance £1.07m 29%
is achieved. 100% 40% 19%
0
– For the PSP awards, threshold levels of vesting are assumed. Fixed Expected Maximum
Maximum:
Dr Hal Barron, Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D ($000)
– It is assumed that the Annual bonus would be payable at the
maximum level and that the awards under the PSP would vest
in full. 16,000 $14.27m
60%
12,000
8,000 $6.34m
36%
24%
4,000 $2.37m 27%
100% 37% 17%
0
Fixed Expected Maximum
Dr Patrick Vallance, outgoing President, R&D (£000)(1)
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
£0.26m £0.26m £0.26m
100% 100% 100%
0
Fixed Fixed Fixed
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP
(1) Outgoing President, R&D, will leave GSK on 31 March 2018 and is not eligible for
bonus or PSP award for 2018. The figures represent his actual remuneration for
January through March 2018.145
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Non-Executive Director Remuneration policy
The company’s Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors, set out below, was approved on 4 May 2017 at GSK’s Annual
General Meeting.
Chairman’s To provide an inclusive flat rate fee that is competitive with those paid by other companies of equivalent size and complexity subject to the
fees limits contained in GSK’s Articles of Association.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making There is no formal maximum. However, fees are reviewed None
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the annually and set by reference to a review of the Chairman’s
Chairman. The Chairman does not participate in discussions performance and independently sourced market data.
in respect of his fees.
Details of current fees are set out in the Annual report on
Fees can be paid in a combination of cash and/or GSK remuneration on page 127.
shares or ADS via the Non-Executive Directors’ Share
Allocation Plan.
Basic fees As above
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and As with the Chairman, fees are reviewed annually and set by None
making recommendations to the Board on the fees payable reference to independently sourced data.
to the company’s Non-Executive Directors.
Details of current fees are set out in the Annual report on
A minimum of 25% is delivered in the form of GSK shares or remuneration on page 127.
ADS, using the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation
Plan which delivers the shares or ADS to the Non-Executive
Director following retirement from the Board.
Supplemental To compensate Non-Executive Directors (other than the Chairman) for taking on additional Board responsibilities or undertaking
fees intercontinental travel.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Additional fees for Committee Chairmen, the Senior Details of supplemental fees are set out in the Annual report None
Independent Non-Executive Director, Science and Medical on remuneration on page 127.
Experts and intercontinental travel.
Benefits To facilitate execution of responsibilities and duties required by the role.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors There is no formal maximum limit as benefit costs can None
are incurred in the normal course of business in relation fluctuate depending on changes in provider costs and
to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other individual circumstances.
GSK-hosted events. For overseas-based Non-Executive
Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the
Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK.
Annual report on remuneration on page 127.
In the event it is necessary for business purposes, whilst
not normal practice, Non-Executive Directors may be
accompanied by their spouse or partner to these meetings
or events. The costs associated with the above are all met
by the company and, in some instances, they are deemed
to be taxable and therefore treated as benefits for the
Non-Executive Director.146
GSK Annual Report 2017
2017 Remuneration policy summary continued
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy
The Remuneration policy (Policy) is set out on pages 138 to 146 of Performance Share Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan awards
the 2016 Annual Report and it is intended that the Policy for GSK’s are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which the
Executive and Non-Executive Directors will operate for a period of award has been granted. The Committee may adjust or amend
three years from the date of approval at the company’s Annual awards only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
General Meeting on 4 May 2017. This includes making adjustments to reflect one-off corporate
events, such as a change in the company’s capital structure.
The Committee wrote the Policy principally in relation to the
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy
taking into account the possible recruitment of a replacement or (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to
an additional Executive Director during the operation of the Policy. take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining shareholder
The Committee intends the Policy to operate for the period set out approval for such amendments.
above in its entirety. However, it may after due consideration seek
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
to change the Policy during this period, but only if it believes it is
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and
appropriate to do so for the long-term success of the company,
holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss and
after consultation with shareholders and having sought shareholder
take feedback on its Remuneration policy and governance matters.
approval at a general meeting.
The annual meeting was held in December 2017, at which Urs
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration
Rohner, the Committee Chairman, shared updates on remuneration
payments and/or payments for loss of office (including exercising
matters in the last 12 months and proposals for 2018 onwards.
any discretions available to it in connection with such payments)
notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy where the
terms of the payment were agreed:
(i) before the AGM on 7 May 2014 (the date the company’s first
shareholder-approved Directors’ remuneration policy came into
effect);
(ii) before the Policy came into effect, provided that the terms of
the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved
Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; or
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the
company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was
not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the
company. For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the Committee
satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an
award over shares or ADS, the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’
at the time the award is granted.
Basis of preparation
The Annual report on remuneration has been prepared in The Annual report on remuneration has been approved by the Board
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). In accordance
with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual report on
Urs Rohner
remuneration are subject to audit: total remuneration figures for
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Executive Directors including further details for each element of
remuneration (salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long-term 12 March 2018
incentive awards); Non-Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments
received in the year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests
in GSK share plans; payments to past Directors; payments for loss
of office; and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which
the opinion thereon is expressed on page 156. The remaining
sections of the Annual report on remuneration are not subject to
audit nor are the pages referred to from within the audited sections.114477
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 148
Independent Auditors’ report 149
Financial statements 158
Notes to the financial statements 162
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP 233148
GSK Annual Report 2017
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, – the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
the Remuneration report and the Group financial statements which represent the management report, include a fair review of
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. the development and performance of the business and the position
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
uncertainties that it faces.
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance Disclosure of information to auditors
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each
by the European Union. In preparing the Group financial statements, confirmed that:
the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as issued by the
– so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Under company
of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state – he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
of affairs of the Group and its profit or loss for that period. as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
of that information.
required to:
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
consistently;
Going concern basis
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are
Pages 53 to 78 contain information on the performance of the
reasonable and prudent;
Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and
– state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as borrowing facilities. Further information, including Treasury risk
adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the hedging activities, is given in Note 42 to the financial statements,
Group financial statements; and ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. Having assessed the
principal risks and other matters considered in connection with the
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless
viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial
business.
statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
Internal control
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that
in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of
the Group financial statements and the Remuneration report comply
internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by
with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group
of Directors.
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities. The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December
and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
2017, comprising principal statements and supporting notes,
Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described
are set out in the ‘Financial statements’ on pages 158 to 232 of this
in the Corporate Governance section on pages 79 to 112. The Board
report. The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group
further considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair,
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report
balanced and understandable, and provides the information
on pages 149 to 157.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December performance, business model and strategy.
2017 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
printed form and made available on our website. The Directors are
the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
in relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code
on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
which are specified for their review.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to
the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable Annual Report
legislation may be different. The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017,
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration report,
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed
the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has
in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2017
been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared
Philip Hampton
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS
Chairman
as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and 12 March 2018149
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Independent Auditors’ report Investor information
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the Group financial statements
Our opinion – Taken together, the components at which audit work was
In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Group financial statements performed accounted for 70% of consolidated revenue, 74%
(the “financial statements”): of consolidated profit before tax and 78% of profit before tax
adjusted for certain items used to determine our materiality and
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs at
covered all components that individually contributed more than
31 December 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year
2% of revenue, profit before tax and profit before tax adjusted
then ended;
for certain items used to determine our materiality.
– have been properly prepared in accordance with International
Areas of focus
Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) as adopted by the
European Union; and – Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. – Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets
– Acquisition-related liabilities
We have audited the financial statements, included within the
Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated balance sheet – Uncertain tax positions, transfer pricing and the impact of
at 31 December 2017; the consolidated income statement and US tax reform
consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then – Litigation
ended; the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
– Finance transformation
the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then
ended; and the notes to the financial statements, which include a – Investigations into the Group’s commercial operations
description of the significant accounting policies. The scope of our audit
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit & Risk As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and
Committee. assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial
statements. In particular, we looked at where the directors made
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant
As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and
in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB). We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework
applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates and
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB. applicable laws and regulations, including fraud. We designed audit
Basis for opinion procedures at Group and significant component levels to respond
We conducted our audit in accordance with International to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material
Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one
Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by,
auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations or through
section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have collusion. We designed audit procedures that focused on laws and
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the event
opinion. of non-compliance particularly relating to, but not limited to, defence
of products, pricing and practices legislation, taxation and anti-
Independence
bribery and corruption legislation. Our tests included, but were
We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the
not limited to, enquiries of management, review of related work
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial
performed by component audit teams, review of relevant Internal
statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as
Audit reports and discussions with in-house legal counsel
applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our
supplemented by review of external legal counsel correspondence
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
and in certain cases by discussions with external legal counsel.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit We also inspected underlying support and calculations and
services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided assessed and tested the design and operating effectiveness of
to the Group. related controls. There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures
described above as the further removed non-compliance with laws
Other than those disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements,
and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the
we have provided no non-audit services to the Group in the period
financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management
Our audit approach
override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was
Overview evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material
Materiality misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue
– Overall Group materiality: £290 million (2016 – £260 million), recognition. Procedures designed and executed to address these
based on 4% of profit before tax, adding back certain items. risks included use of data enabled auditing techniques to test
journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluating
Audit scope
management’s key accounting estimates for reasonableness and
– Our audit included full scope audits of 18 reporting components
consistency, undertaking cut-off procedures to verify proper cut-off
with specific audit procedures performed at a further 49 reporting
of revenue and expenses and testing the existence and accuracy
components.
of revenue transactions. In addition, we incorporate an element of
unpredictability into our audit work each year.150
GSK Annual Report 2017
Independent Auditors’ report continued
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud)
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit;
and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon,
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide
a separate opinion on these matters. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US We obtained management’s calculations for accruals under applicable
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the
Refer to Notes 3 and 27 in the Group financial statements. Group’s stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable
contracts, third party data related to patient enrolment in US
The Group makes sales to various customers in the US that fall
government funded benefit schemes and historical levels of
under certain commercial and government mandated contracts
product returns.
and reimbursement arrangements, of which the most significant
are Medicaid and Medicare. The Group also provides a right of We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates,
return to its customers for certain products. discounts, allowances and returns levels (where relevant) and to current
payment trends. We also considered the historical accuracy of the
These arrangements result in deductions to gross sales in arriving
Group’s estimates in previous years and the impact of competitive
at turnover and give rise to obligations for the Group to provide
pricing pressures and greater discounting in the US market more
customers with rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of
generally. We formed an independent expectation of the largest
return, which for unsettled amounts are recognised as an accrual.
elements of the accrual at 31 December 2017 using third party data
We focused on this area because rebates, discounts, allowances and compared this expectation to the actual accrual recognised by
and returns arrangements are complex and because establishing the Group.
an appropriate accrual requires significant judgement and
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material
estimation by the directors. This judgement is particularly complex
differences between our independent expectations and the accrual.
in a US healthcare environment in which competitive pricing
pressure and product discounting are increasingly prevalent.
The directors have determined an accrual of £2,837 million to
be necessary at 31 December 2017 (2016 – £2,218 million).
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Deploying our valuations specialists, we obtained the Group’s
Refer to Notes 3, 18 and 19 in the Group financial impairment analyses and tested the reasonableness of key
statements. assumptions, including profit and cash flow growth or decline, terminal
values, the impact of the expiry of patents, potential product
The Group has £16.5 billion of intangible assets (31 December
obsolescence and the selection of discount rates. We challenged
2016 – £17.8 billion), comprising significant licences, patents and
management to substantiate its assumptions, including comparing
acquired trademarks (excluding computer software). In addition,
relevant assumptions to industry and economic forecasts.
the Group has £5.7 billion of goodwill at 31 December 2017
(2016 – £6.0 billion). Further, we verified the integrity of supporting calculations and we
corroborated certain information with third party sources, including
The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets will be
expectations of performance of certain assets and components of the
recovered through future cash flows and there is a risk that the
business. We obtained and evaluated management’s sensitivity
assets will be impaired if these cash flows do not meet the
analyses to ascertain the impact of changes in key assumptions and we
Group’s expectations. The impairment reviews performed by the
performed our own independent sensitivity calculations to quantify the
Group contained a number of significant judgements and
downside changes to management’s models required to result in
estimates including revenue growth, the success of new product
impairment.
launches, genericisation of existing products following patent
expiry, profit margins, cash conversion, terminal values and As a result of our work, we determined that the carrying values of
discount rate. Changes in these assumptions could lead to an goodwill and intangible assets are appropriate in the context of the
impairment to the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill. Group financial statements taken as a whole.
We focused on intangible assets acquired through historical
acquisitions, as these are the most significant individually and in
aggregate, and a number have indefinite lives, including the most
significant of the intangible assets acquired from Novartis in 2015.
The Group has also recognised goodwill from a number of its
acquisitions, including the three-part transaction with Novartis.151
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Acquisition-related liabilities We deployed our valuations specialists to evaluate certain key
Refer to Notes 3, 27, 38, 39 and 42 in the Group financial assumptions, including growth projections and discount rates as well
statements as the integrity and mechanical accuracy of each of management’s
valuation models. This evaluation included look-back tests to assess
In recent years, the Group has completed a number of significant
the historical accuracy of the Group’s forecasts and assumptions and
transactions, including:
performing sensitivity analysis over these key assumptions to determine
– The three-part transaction with Novartis in 2015;
if they could have a significant impact on the value recorded. Certain
– The establishment of ViiV Healthcare in 2009; and procedures are specific to individual liabilities and included the
– The acquisition by ViiV Healthcare of the remaining 50% following:
interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012. – Consumer Healthcare put option: The redemption value (to be
Each of these transactions resulted in the recognition and agreed between GSK and Novartis) is estimated by GSK based on
measurement of material acquisition-related liabilities, which a multiple of Consumer Healthcare’s profit. We verified the integrity
necessitate significant management judgement at each balance of the model and compared certain key assumptions including
sheet date. exchange rates and multiples to third party sources. GSK obtained
valuations from third party banks to support its estimate, which we
The most significant of the acquisition-related liabilities are
obtained and considered. As part of our work, we compared the
outlined below:
earnings forecast approved by the Consumer Healthcare board of
– Consumer Healthcare put option: The Group recorded a
directors and used by management in its model to actual earnings in
liability for the present value of the expected redemption price
2017 and understood the reasons for changes. We also considered
of a written put option over Novartis’ non-controlling interest in
the appropriateness of the assumed exercise date and considered
Consumer Healthcare. At 31 December 2017, this liability had
the impact of different exercise dates on the discounted redemption
a carrying value of £8,606 million (2016 – £7,420 million);
value of the option;
– ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration: On acquisition of
– ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration: We compared the
the remaining 50% interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare
projections for the Group’s dolutegravir products to third party
joint venture in 2012, £659 million was recorded as
expectations of growth and considered the potential upside and
contingent consideration. This represented the fair value of the
downside impact of products launched and expected to be launched
expected payments to be made to Shionogi, contingent on
by the Group’s competitors; and
future sales of dolutegravir products. The liability is required to
– ViiV Healthcare put option: Certain assumptions related to forecast
be re-measured to its fair value at each reporting date. Since
revenue from dolutegravir products used in the valuation of this
initial recognition, it has increased in response to actual and
liability are consistent with the ViiV Healthcare contingent
future sales significantly exceeding original expectations.
consideration valuation. For other components of the valuation,
At 31 December 2017, the liability was £5,542 million
we considered the appropriateness of the assumptions made
(2016 – £5,304 million); and
about forecast growth rates and margins by reference to historical
– ViiV Healthcare put option: In 2009, Pfizer was granted a
performance and to board approved budgets and third party
written put option by the Group that enables it to put its
forecast data.
non-controlling interest back to the Group in the future.
Each of these three acquisition-related liabilities is subject to significant
At 31 December 2017, the liability in respect of Pfizer’s
estimation uncertainty and the range of possible outcomes is very
written put option had a carrying value of £1,304 million
broad. However, based on our procedures performed, we are
(2016 – £1,319 million).
comfortable that the value of each liability at 31 December 2017 is
In addition to these liabilities, the Group has recorded certain
reasonable in the context of the Group financial statements taken as
other acquisition-related liabilities at 31 December 2017,
a whole and reflects management’s best estimates at this time.
including £584 million in relation to contingent consideration
payable on the acquisition of Novartis’ Vaccines business We reviewed the disclosures about each acquisition-related liability,
in 2015. including management’s commentary about estimation uncertainty
and the range of alternative outcomes. We are satisfied that these
We have focused on this area as the carrying value of each
disclosures are appropriate.
of the financial liabilities is material and is determined by
management judgements and estimates, including projections
of future sales of products, the potential impact of competitor
products and the delivery of anticipated synergies. In addition,
each valuation is sensitive to changes in other assumptions,
including discount rates and tax rates, and US tax reform has
therefore had a significant impact on the valuations in 2017.152
GSK Annual Report 2017
Independent Auditors’ report continued
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Uncertain tax positions, transfer pricing and the impact In conjunction with our UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing
of US tax reform specialists, we evaluated and challenged management’s judgements
Refer to Notes 3 and 14 in the Group financial statements. in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order to
assess the adequacy of the Group’s tax provisions. This included
The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment
obtaining and evaluating certain third party tax advice that the Group
and there are open tax and transfer pricing matters with UK and
has obtained to assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used.
overseas tax authorities. In addition, from time to time the Group
enters into commercial transactions with complicated accounting In understanding and evaluating management’s judgements, we
and tax consequences. considered the status of recent and current tax authority audits and
enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, judgemental positions taken
Judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions required
in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax
in respect of uncertain tax positions. At 31 December 2017, the
environment. We noted that the assumptions and judgements that are
Group has recorded provisions of £1,175 million in respect of
required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible
uncertain tax positions (2016 – £1,892 million).
outcomes is broad. However, based on the evidence obtained, we
There have also been a number of changes in tax law in the US considered the level of provisioning and related disclosure to be
and Switzerland that have resulted in a material impact on the acceptable in the context of the Group financial statements taken
Group’s current and deferred tax balances at 31 December 2017. as a whole.
The most significant impact has been in respect of the US Tax
Deploying our US tax specialists, we evaluated the key judgements,
Cuts and Jobs Act which was substantively enacted before
assumptions and interpretations used by management to assess the
year-end. In aggregate, the total adjusting item to account for
impact of US tax reform. We have undertaken procedures to validate
the impact amounts to £1,078 million in the tax line. The main
the material corporate tax rate change adjustments to current and
changes include a reduction in the corporate tax rate that should
deferred tax balances.
be applied to deferred taxation balances and the introduction of
a toll tax for the deemed repatriation of certain deferred foreign With respect to the £348 million toll tax charge for the deemed
earnings. Some of the changes are complex and there are a repatriation of foreign earnings of subsidiaries of US entities in the
number of areas of uncertainty relating both to the manner in Group, we have evaluated the documentation prepared by management
which the law will apply and to the accounting in certain areas. and assessed the underlying calculations together with advice from third
party advisors, undertaken procedures to validate key inputs
underpinning the estimated charge and confirmed that the liability is
appropriately presented in the Group’s balance sheet.
Given the complexity and uncertainty relating to US tax reform, we
expect that there will be true-ups and updates to the estimates as
further guidance is issued. However, we are satisfied that the
accounting positions taken by the Group at 31 December 2017
represent management’s best estimate of the impact of US tax
reform at this time.
Litigation We discussed the status of significant known actual and potential
Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 45 in the Group financial litigation with in-house legal counsel. We obtained and substantively
statements. tested evidence to support the decisions and rationale for provisions
held or the decisions not to record provisions, including correspondence
The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases
with external legal counsel. We also monitored and considered external
inherent litigation risk. The Group is engaged in a number of legal
information sources to identify potential legal actions.
actions, including product liability, anti-trust and related private
litigation, of which the most significant are disclosed in Notes We developed an independent expectation of the litigation provisions
29 and 45. based on product litigation history and other available evidence to
challenge the valuation and completeness of the provisions recognised
We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of claims is
by the Group. This included obtaining confirmations from external legal
uncertain and the positions taken by the directors are based on
counsel to confirm our understanding of settled and outstanding
the application of material judgement and estimation. Accordingly,
litigation and asserted claims. We also evaluated significant adjustments
unexpected adverse outcomes could significantly impact the
to legal provisions recorded during the year.
Group’s reported profit and balance sheet position.
As disclosed in Notes 29 and 45 to the Group financial statements,
At 31 December 2017, the Group held provisions of £186 million
the eventual outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on the
in respect of legal actions (2016 – £344 million). There has been
outcome of future events and the position taken by the Group is
a significant reduction in the provision as a result of the Group
inherently judgemental. We found in the context of the Group financial
settling its largest individual cases relating to Paxil. Nevertheless,
statements taken as a whole that the judgements made by management
we have continued to focus on this area given the possibility of
were reasonable and the disclosures made in respect of these
adverse outcomes.
provisions and contingent liabilities were appropriate.153
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Finance transformation We centrally managed the work performed by component audit teams at
The Group continues to rationalise and simplify its finance BPOs and BSCs, which consisted of controls and substantive testing,
processes including the roll-out of an enterprise-wide resource and we conducted oversight visits to key BSC and BPO sites in Group
planning system (ERP) and migrations of accounting services to audit scope (namely India, Malaysia, Romania, the US and the UK) to
in-house business service centres (BSCs) and to third party direct the work performed.
business process outsourcing locations (BPOs). The number of
We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key
market migrations onto the central ERP system in 2017 was lower
automated and manual controls both before and after the migration into
than 2016. However, as a number of markets migrating in 2017
the centralised processing environment, including IT general controls
pose particular complexity due to their position in the Group’s
and controls in respect of data migration between ERP systems. We
supply chain, we have continued to focus on this area.
also substantively tested the accuracy and completeness of data
These changes represent a financial reporting risk while migrations migration into the new ERP along with the controls over this process.
are happening as controls and processes that have been
established and embedded over a number of years are updated
and migrated into a new environment. There is an increased risk of
breakdown in internal financial controls during the transition and
an increased risk of inaccurate or incomplete migration of financial
data, which would in turn increase risk of material misstatements
to the Group financial statements.
Investigations into the Group’s commercial operations We met with the directors, management and in-house legal counsel
Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 45 in the Group financial and we spoke with the Group’s external advisors to assess the risk
statements. of occurrence of inappropriate activities, the status of ongoing
investigations and the potential for further fines and penalties.
The Group remains subject to an ongoing investigation into its
This included understanding and evaluating the Group’s internal
commercial operations by the SFO in the UK. At 31 December
investigations processes, which assess risks and allegations reported
2017, the Group concluded that it does not have sufficient clarity
through various channels including whistle-blowing hotlines. We also
on the likely timing of the completion of this investigation nor is it
evaluated the ongoing enhancements and changes that have been
able to make a sufficiently reliable estimate of any fine or penalty
made to other control processes and business practices in recent years.
that the SFO might impose on the Group on completion of its
investigation. As a result, the Group has stated in Note 45 that Deploying our forensic specialists, we assessed the scope and findings
it is unable to recognise a provision for its estimate of the of the investigative work performed by the Group as well as the risk
eventual outcome. assessment exercise that management has performed into third party
In addition, the Group continues to carry out its own investigations interaction and engagement more broadly. We used the output of this
in a number of markets to ascertain whether inappropriate assessment to instruct component teams (including certain markets not
commercial operations may have taken place. otherwise included in Group audit scope) to undertake risk-focused
audit procedures to address the audit risk that the Group financial
We focused on the following risks, which might have a material
statements might be materially misstated due to the potential financial
impact on the Group’s financial statements:
implications of alleged illegal acts.
– That a fine and penalty might be forthcoming in respect of
In respect of the SFO investigation, we independently circularised and
ongoing investigation into the Group’s commercial operations
spoke with external legal counsel engaged by the Group to obtain its
by the SFO, which could give rise to the need for a material
views about the status of the investigation and to ascertain the
provision; and
reasonableness of management’s assertions in respect of the likely
– That inappropriate activities have occurred, which could
outcome and the related disclosures in the Group financial statements.
also give rise to material fines or penalties or result in asset
impairments. We were satisfied with the Group’s provisioning decisions at 31
December 2017 in the context of the Group financial statements taken
as a whole and with the adequacy of the disclosures given the status
of investigations.154
GSK Annual Report 2017
Independent Auditors’ report continued
Report on the Group financial statements continued
How we tailored the audit scope Further specific audit procedures over central functions, the Group
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed consolidation and areas of significant judgement (including taxation,
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements goodwill, intangible assets, treasury, post-retirement benefits and the
as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the elimination of unrealised intercompany profit in inventory) were
accounting processes and controls and the industry in which it directly led by the Group audit team.
operates.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 500 audit work accounted for 70% of consolidated revenue, 74% of
reporting components. We identified 18 reporting components that, consolidated profit before tax and 78% of profit before tax adjusted
in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information for certain items used to determine our materiality. This was before
due to their size or risk characteristics. This excludes 13 central considering the contribution to our audit evidence from performing
adjustment entities audited at a Group level. Specific audit audit work at the divisional and Group levels, including testing of
procedures over significant balances and transactions were monitoring controls and disaggregated analytical review procedures,
performed at a further 49 reporting components to give appropriate which covers a significant portion of the Group’s smaller and lower
coverage of all material balances. Where these reporting risk components that were not directly included in our Group audit
components are supported by shared financial service centres, scope. In addition, we obtained indirect audit evidence over certain
these centres were also included in Group audit scope. None of out-of-scope components through the procedures we undertook at
the reporting components not included in our Group audit scope the Group’s shared service centres, encompassing BPOs and
individually contributed more than 2% to consolidated revenue, BSCs, and over centralised IT infrastructure where these processes
profit before tax or profit before tax adjusted for certain items used are standardised.
to determine our materiality.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we
determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit
work at those reporting component units. As a result, 10 overseas
components were visited by senior members of the Group audit
team, including each of the Group’s financially significant
components in the US (which are visited at least annually) as well as
Japan, India, Switzerland, Italy, Brazil, Korea, Germany and Belgium.
In addition, we visited six of the overseas shared service centres
supporting reporting components in Group audit scope. For those
components in Group audit scope where a site visit was not
undertaken, our involvement included regular dialogue with our
component teams and review of component auditor work papers.155
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the
financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality £290 million (2016 – £260 million).
How we determined it 4% of profit before tax, adding back certain items including the re-measurement charges for
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration (£556 million) and Vaccines contingent
consideration (£101 million), the re-measurement charges for the Consumer Healthcare put
option liability (£986 million), the ViiV put option re-measurement credit (£126 million), the
re-measurement of acquisition related liabilities as a result of US tax reform (£666 million),
major restructuring costs (£1,060 million), significant legal costs (£68 million) and
impairment of intangible assets (£688 million) and deducting net income relating to the
gain on disposal of assets (£314 million).
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group’s principal measure of earnings comprises adjusted results, which adds back to
statutory results a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed
above. Management uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates material unusual or
non-operational items that may obscure the key trends and factors determining the Group’s
operational performance.
We took this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that we did not
adjust profit before tax to add back amortisation of intangible assets and certain other
smaller adjusting items as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce
volatility to the Group’s earnings.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The range of
materiality allocated across components was between £15 million and £154 million. Certain components were audited to a local statutory
audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above £10 million (2016
– £10 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
In accordance with ISAs (UK) we report as follows:
Reporting obligation Outcome
We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. However,
draw attention to in respect of the directors’ statement in the because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this
financial statements about whether the directors considered it statement is not a guarantee as to the Group’s ability to continue as a
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the directors’ identification
of any material uncertainties to the Group’s ability to continue as
a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the
date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors’ statement relating to We have nothing to report.
going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is
materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.156
GSK Annual Report 2017
Independent Auditors’ report continued
Reporting on other information
Reporting on other information The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency
Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report or liquidity of the Group
thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding:
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other
– The directors’ confirmation on page 105 of the Annual Report that
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion
they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks
or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business
form of assurance thereon.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our
– The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so,
explain how they are being managed or mitigated; and
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, – The directors’ explanation on page 57 of the Annual Report as to
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what
apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are period they have done so and why they consider that period to be
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a
material misstatement of the financial statements or a material reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
nothing to report based on these responsibilities. We have nothing to report having performed a review of the
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, we also directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment
considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the
Act 2006 have been included. longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less
in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work
considering the directors’ process supporting their statements;
undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006,
checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant
(CA06), ISAs (UK) and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”);
Authority (FCA) require us also to report certain opinions and matters
and considering whether the statements are consistent with the
as described below (required by ISAs (UK) unless otherwise stated).
knowledge and understanding of the Group its environment obtained
Strategic Report and Directors’ Report in the course of the audit. (Listing Rules)
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the
Other Code provisions
audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report
Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the
when:
financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with
applicable legal requirements. (CA06) – The statement given by the directors, on page 104, that they
consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its
and understandable, and provides the information necessary for
environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify
the members to assess the Group’s position and performance,
any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors’
business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our
Report. (CA06)
knowledge of the Group obtained in the course of performing
our audit;
– The section of the Annual Report on pages 99 to 106 describing
the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately
address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk
Committee; and
– The directors’ statement relating to the parent company’s
compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure
from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing
Rules, for review by the auditors.157
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements Use of this report
As explained more fully in the directors’ statement of responsibilities This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
set out on page 148, the directors are responsible for the preparation for the parent Company’s members as a body in accordance with
of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other
framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
to fraud or error.
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, in our opinion:
disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using
– we have not received all the information and explanations we
the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either
require for our audit; or
intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations or have no
realistic alternative but to do so. – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are
not made.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
the financial statements as a whole are free from material Appointment
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ We have audited the Group since its inception in 2000 and our
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high legacy firms were previously auditors to certain of the Group’s legacy
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted components since at least 1974 (which is as far back as records can
in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material be obtained). The period of total uninterrupted engagement is at least
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 44 years, covering, as a minimum, the years ended 31 December
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 1974 to 31 December 2017. The year ended 31 December 2017 is
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic the final year of engagement following the Group’s decision to rotate
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. the external audit.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.
uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
auditors’ report.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December
2017.
The parent company has passed a resolution in accordance with
section 506 of the Companies Act that the senior statutory auditor’s
name should not be stated.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
12 March 2018158
GSK Annual Report 2017
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2017
2017 2016 2015
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 30,186 27,889 23,923
Cost of sales (10,342) (9,290) (8,853)
Gross profit 19,844 18,599 15,070
Selling, general and administration (9,672) (9,366) (9,232)
Research and development (4,476) (3,628) (3,560)
Royalty income 356 398 329
Other operating income/(expense) 7 (1,965) (3,405) 7,715
Operating profit 8 4,087 2,598 10,322
Finance income 11 65 72 104
Finance expense 12 (734) (736) (757)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 94 – 843
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 13 5 14
Profit before taxation 3,525 1,939 10,526
Taxation 14 (1,356) (877) (2,154)
Profit after taxation for the year 2,169 1,062 8,372
Profit/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 637 150 (50)
Profit attributable to shareholders 1,532 912 8,422
2,169 1,062 8,372
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 31.4p 18.8p 174.3p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 31.0p 18.6p 172.3p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2017
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 2,169 1,062 8,372
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 34 462 646 (618)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 34 109 – –
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (14) 251 416
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 47 – (91)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (42) (245) (346)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments (18) 51 36
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (10) 2 2
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 –
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1 2
Share of other comprehensive expense of associates and joint ventures – – (77)
534 708 (676)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 34 (149) 603 8
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 549 (475) 261
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit plans (221) 126 (80)
179 254 189
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 34 713 962 (487)
Total comprehensive income for the year 2,882 2,024 7,885
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 2,394 1,271 7,927
Non-controlling interests 488 753 (42)
Total comprehensive income for the year 2,882 2,024 7,885159
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet Investor information
as at 31 December 2017
2017 2016
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 10,860 10,808
Goodwill 18 5,734 5,965
Other intangible assets 19 17,562 18,776
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 183 263
Other investments 21 918 985
Deferred tax assets 14 3,796 4,374
Derivative financial instruments 42 8 –
Other non-current assets 22 1,413 1,199
Total non-current assets 40,474 42,370
Current assets
Inventories 23 5,557 5,102
Current tax recoverable 14 258 226
Trade and other receivables 24 6,000 6,026
Derivative financial instruments 42 68 156
Liquid investments 31 78 89
Cash and cash equivalents 25 3,833 4,897
Assets held for sale 26 113 215
Total current assets 15,907 16,711
Total assets 56,381 59,081
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 31 (2,825) (4,129)
Contingent consideration liabilities 39 (1,076) (561)
Trade and other payables 27 (20,970) (11,964)
Derivative financial instruments 42 (74) (194)
Current tax payable 14 (995) (1,305)
Short-term provisions 29 (629) (848)
Total current liabilities (26,569) (19,001)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 31 (14,264) (14,661)
Corporation tax payable 14 (411) –
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (1,396) (1,934)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (3,539) (4,090)
Other provisions 29 (636) (652)
Contingent consideration liabilities 39 (5,096) (5,335)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (981) (8,445)
Total non-current liabilities (26,323) (35,117)
Total liabilities (52,892) (54,118)
Net assets 3,489 4,963
Equity
Share capital 33 1,343 1,342
Share premium account 33 3,019 2,954
Retained earnings 34 (6,477) (5,392)
Other reserves 34 2,047 2,220
Shareholders’ equity (68) 1,124
Non-controlling interests 3,557 3,839
Total equity 3,489 4,963
The financial statements on pages 158 to 232 were approved by the Board on 12 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Hampton
Chairman160
GSK Annual Report 2017
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2017
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Non-controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2015 1,339 2,759 (2,074) 2,239 4,263 673 4,936
Profit/(loss) for the year – – 8,422 – 8,422 (50) 8,372
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (520) 25 (495) 8 (487)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 7,902 25 7,927 (42) 7,885
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (237) (237)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,874) – (3,874) – (3,874)
Gains on transfer of net assets into Consumer Healthcare
Joint Venture – – 2,891 – 2,891 – 2,891
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option – – (6,204) – (6,204) – (6,204)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – 3,370 3,370
Loss on transfer of equity investment to investment in – – (229) – (229) – (229)
associate
Ordinary Shares issued 1 72 – – 73 – 73
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (99) (99) – (99)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (175) 175 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 356 – 356 – 356
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 10 – 10 – 10
At 31 December 2015 1,340 2,831 (1,397) 2,340 5,114 3,764 8,878
Profit for the year – – 912 – 912 150 1,062
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 284 75 359 603 962
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 1,196 75 1,271 753 2,024
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (534) (534)
Dividends to shareholders – – (4,850) – (4,850) – (4,850)
Recognition of liabilities with non-controlling interests – – (2,013) – (2,013) (159) (2,172)
De-recognition of liabilities with non-controlling interests – – 1,244 – 1,244 – 1,244
Changes in non-controlling interests – – 17 – 17 15 32
Ordinary Shares issued 2 87 – – 89 – 89
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 36 466 (576) (74) – (74)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (381) 381 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 319 – 319 – 319
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 7 – 7 – 7
At 31 December 2016 1,342 2,954 (5,392) 2,220 1,124 3,839 4,963
Profit for the year – – 1,532 – 1,532 637 2,169
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 899 (37) 862 (149) 713
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 2,431 (37) 2,394 488 2,882
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (789) (789)
Contribution from non-controlling interests – – – – – 21 21
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,906) – (3,906) – (3,906)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – (2) (2)
Ordinary Shares issued 1 55 – – 56 – 56
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 10 581 (656) (65) – (65)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (520) 520 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 333 – 333 – 333
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (4) – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2017 1,343 3,019 (6,477) 2,047 (68) 3,557 3,489161
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement Investor information
for the year ended 31 December 2017
2017 2016 2015
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 2,169 1,062 8,372
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 6,089 7,044 (3,741)
Cash generated from operations 8,258 8,106 4,631
Taxation paid (1,340) (1,609) (2,062)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,918 6,497 2,569
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,545) (1,543) (1,380)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 281 98 72
Purchase of intangible assets (657) (809) (521)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 48 283 236
Purchase of equity investments (80) (96) (82)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 64 683 357
Contingent consideration paid (91) (73) (338)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 – 17 (3,203)
Disposal of businesses 38 282 72 10,246
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 (15) (11) (16)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary and interest in associate 196 – 564
Decrease/(increase) in liquid investments 4 – (2)
Interest received 64 68 99
Dividends from associates, joint ventures and equity investments 6 42 5
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities (1,443) (1,269) 6,037
Cash flow from financing activities
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (65) (74) (99)
Issue of share capital 33 56 89 73
Purchase of non-controlling interests (29) – –
Increase in long-term loans 2,233 – –
(Repayment of)/Increase in short-term loans (3,200) 148 (2,412)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (23) (18) (25)
Interest paid (781) (732) (762)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,906) (4,850) (3,874)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (779) (534) (237)
Contributions from non-controlling interests 21 – –
Other financing cash flows 93 (421) 233
Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,380) (6,392) (7,103)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts 37 (905) (1,164) 1,503
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 4,605 5,486 4,028
Exchange adjustments (100) 283 (45)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (905) (1,164) 1,503
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,600 4,605 5,486
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 3,833 4,897 5,830
Overdrafts (233) (292) (344)
3,600 4,605 5,486162
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board
creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’.
pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) Information on the application of these accounting policies,
medicines and health-related consumer products. GSK’s principal including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3,
pharmaceutical products include medicines in the following ‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’.
therapeutic areas: respiratory, HIV, immuno-inflammation, anti-virals,
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic,
generally accepted accounting principles requires management
anti-bacterials, dermatology and rare diseases.
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
Implementation of new accounting standards and interpretations
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued An agenda decision by the IFRS Interpretations Committee in
by the International Accounting Standards Board. September 2017 clarified that charges for interest on tax should
be reported within finance expense and certain penalties on tax
Composition of financial statements
settlements should be reported within administrative expenses.
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling,
Previously GSK had reported these charges within the overall tax
the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance
charge in the income statement or other comprehensive income,
with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements
as appropriate.
comprise:
GSK has adopted the revised basis of reporting in 2017 and, as
– Consolidated income statement
a result of a number of settlements during the year, has recorded
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income credits for interest on tax for 2017 of £24 million in finance expense.
– Consolidated balance sheet There were no material charges for penalties on settlements during
2017 that required adjustment.
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Accrued interest payable on tax at 31 December 2017 was
– Consolidated cash flow statement £52 million, and this is included within trade and other payables
– Notes to the financial statements. on the Group balance sheet. The impact on prior years was not
material and so prior year amounts have not been restated.
Composition of the Group
A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion of Financial period
the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net assets These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to
of the Group is given in Note 44, ‘Principal Group companies’. 31 December 2017, with comparative figures for the financial years
from 1 January to 31 December 2016 and, where appropriate, from
Accounting principles and policies
1 January to 31 December 2015.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as Parent company financial statements
stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis. The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline plc,
have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented
on page 239 and the accounting policies are given on page 240.
2. Accounting principles and policies
Consolidation Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over, and
The consolidated financial statements include: rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are accounted for
as joint ventures. Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint
– the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows,
control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified assets
of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
and obligations for specified liabilities of the arrangement, the
– the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates and arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation. Where the Group
joint ventures has the ability to exercise significant influence over entities, they are
– the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses accounted for as associates. The results and assets and liabilities of
of joint operations. associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated
financial statements using the equity method of accounting. The
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up Group’s rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint
to 31 December each year. operations are included in the consolidated financial statements in
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant accordance with those rights and obligations.
activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated from
as subsidiaries. the date control ceases.163
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated and Revenue
no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries until the Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
products are sold to customers outside the Group. The relevant services are supplied or made available to external customers against
proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, joint orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the customer,
operations and associates is also deferred until the products are reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions and all relevant
sold to third parties. Transactions with non-controlling interests are obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings process is
recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra- regarded as being complete.
Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered
Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of
recoverable.
discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future
Business combinations rebates and returns. The methodology and assumptions used to
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date. experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions are
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market
includes the fair value of any contingent consideration. Where the research data and internally generated information. Value added tax
consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling interest, and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and contingent
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty
liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill. The costs
records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-
of acquisition are charged to the income statement in the period in
promotion income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion
which they are incurred.
activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of
and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and £16 million (2016 – £9 million; 2015 – £14 million). In addition, initial
associates. Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation or event-based milestone income (excluding royalty income) arising
acquired. on development or marketing collaborations of the Group’s
compounds or products with other parties is recognised in turnover.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets
No such income is included in turnover for all the periods presented.
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income
statement. Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance
with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non-
controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the non- Expenditure
controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary, on a Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership percentage when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity. made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
Foreign currency translation
estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and the
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency
achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred.
of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are
statement as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-company transfers
retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling
are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers
at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are included in the
are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
income statement.
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill,
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and
has been undertaken.
joint ventures are translated into Sterling using average rates of
exchange.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the
profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences
arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the
Group’s net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate
component of equity.
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash
flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which
are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated
income statement.164
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Research and development Employee share plans
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development share option and share award schemes.
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and charged
market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
and equipment used for research and development is capitalised
and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy. The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees
Environmental expenditure
exercise their options or awards. Costs of running the ESOP Trusts
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP
from past or current operations and from which no current or future
Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer is made between
benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. The Group
other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting periods of the
recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably
related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate proceeds
estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total costs
receivable from employees on exercise.
and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’ costs
when it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective Property, plant and equipment
shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of reimbursements are Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
recorded as assets when virtually certain. purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
Legal and other disputes
qualifying assets in construction.
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources is Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value of
considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over the
outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or other expenses expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed, and
arising from claims received or other disputes. In respect of product where appropriate adjusted annually. The normal expected useful
liability claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
of claims made and settlements to enable management to make a
reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
In certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial
Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
technique is used to determine this estimate.
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected
financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation
proceedings. In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the
cases would be included but no provision would be made. Costs net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
associated with claims made by the Group against third parties are
Leases
charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the
Pensions and other post-employment benefits benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The assets are
calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over included in PP&E or computer software and the capital elements of
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance
employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified actuaries. leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term, if shorter.
future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of high The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income
quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets are measured at statement. All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs
fair value at the balance sheet date. are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a
similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over Goodwill
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed
employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of qualified to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at least
actuaries. annually.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
income in the year in which they arise. this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income
statement.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are charged
to the income statement as incurred.165
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Other intangible assets Available-for-sale investments
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation Liquid investments and other investments are classified as available-
and impairments. for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus
transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding
Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair
20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are available
value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the asset
for use. The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation
directly and are charged to the income statement.
charge take into account patent lives, where applicable, as well as
the value obtained from periods of non-exclusivity. Asset lives are On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and
reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted, annually. Contingent losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income
milestone payments are recognised at the point that the contingent are reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity
event becomes probable. Any development costs incurred by the investments are recognised in the income statement when the
Group and associated with acquired licences, patents, know-how Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity investments
or marketing rights are written off to the income statement when are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be
incurred, unless the criteria for recognition of an internally generated sold within one year.
intangible asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on the
made in a major market and approval is considered highly probable.
trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of investments are accounted for on settlement date.
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a value
Inventories
which is substantial and long term and where the brands either are
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of
contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately from the rest
cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and
of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised over their
related production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is
estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where it is considered
generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch inventory
that the useful economic life is indefinite.
is held as an asset when there is a high probability of regulatory
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal approval for the product. Before that point a provision is made
use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible against the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the provision is
fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant then reversed at the point when a high probability of regulatory
business system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a approval is determined.
durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised over seven to
Trade receivables
ten years and other computer software over three to five years.
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
Impairment of non-current assets provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger cash previous experience and general economic conditions. When a trade
generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets might be receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly
impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite against any provision available and then to the income statement.
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for impairment is
credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
discounted where the effect is material.
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on other
Borrowings
non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a change in
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and only to the
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
extent that the revised recoverable amounts do not exceed the
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds,
carrying values that would have existed, net of depreciation or
net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being
amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint operations the relevant borrowing.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net assets
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits or
losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. The
Group recognises its rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and
expenses of joint operations.166
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Taxation Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception
balance sheet date. as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the
amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in
will be available against which the temporary differences can be other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income
utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be
flow hedges.
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is provided using rates Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
balance sheet date. changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the
market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK income statement.
are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange Discounting
forward contracts and options. The Group does not hold or issue Where the time value of money is material, balances are
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative discounted to current values using appropriate discount rates.
purposes. The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income
and finance expense.
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates
In preparing the financial statements, management is required Taxation
to make judgements about when or how items should be The tax charge for the year was £1,356 million (2016 – £877 million).
recognised in the financial statements and estimates and At December 2017, current tax payable was £995 million
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue (2016 – £1,305 million), non-current corporation tax payable was
and expenses reported in the financial statements. Actual £411 million (2016 – £nil), current tax recoverable was £258 million
amounts and results could differ from those estimates. The (2016 – £226 million), deferred tax liabilities were £1,396 million
following are considered to be the key accounting judgements (2016 – £1,934 million) and deferred tax assets were £3,796 million
and estimates made. (2016 – £4,374 million).
Turnover Deferred tax assets are recognised when the judgement is made that
Reported Group turnover for 2017 was £30,186 million it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which
(2016 – £27,889 million). the temporary differences can be utilised, based on management’s
assumptions relating to the amounts and timing of future taxable
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and
profits. Factors affecting the tax charge in future years, in particular,
product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by product
US tax reform, are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’. A 1% change in the
arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements with
Group’s effective tax rate in 2017 would have changed the Total tax
purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of
charge for the year by approximately £35 million.
claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale. Accruals
are made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts or The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities.
allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available market Where management makes a judgement that an outflow of funds is
information and historical experience. probable and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can
be made, provision is made for the best estimate of the liability. In
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
estimating any such liability GSK applies a risk-based approach
final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
which takes into account, as appropriate, the probability that the
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product
Group would be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under
sales mix.
international tax treaties. These estimates take into account the
The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and adjusted specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice,
regularly in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time
trends, past experience and projected market conditions. Market as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge.
conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party
analyses, market research data and internally generated information.
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are
based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.167
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates continued
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for Contingent consideration and put option liabilities
the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. At 31 December The 2017 income statement charge for contingent consideration and
2017, the Group had recognised provisions of £1,175 million in put option liabilities was £2,134 million (2016 – £3,991 million).
respect of uncertain tax positions (2016 – £1,892 million). Where
At 31 December 2017, the liability for contingent consideration
open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from
amounted to £6,172 million (2016 – £5,896 million). Of this amount,
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
£5,542 million (2016 – £5,304 million) related to the acquisition of
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation
the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 and
proceedings.
£584 million (2016 – £545 million) related to the acquisition of the
Legal and other disputes Vaccines business from Novartis in 2016.
Legal costs for the year were £166 million (2016 – £162 million).
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration payable
At 31 December 2017 provisions for legal and other disputes
for a business combination is recorded at fair value at the date of
amounted to £186 million (2016 – £344 million).
acquisition. These fair values are generally based on risk-adjusted
The Group provides for anticipated settlement costs where future cash flows discounted using appropriate post-tax discount
management makes a judgement that an outflow of resources is rates. The fair values are reviewed on a regular basis, at least
probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of annually, and any changes are reflected in the income statement.
the dispute and legal and other expenses arising from claims against See Note 39, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
the Group. The estimated provisions take into account the specific
During 2015, the Group granted a put option to Novartis in respect
circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are
of Novartis’ shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time as
In certain circumstances, Novartis has the right to require GSK to
each dispute progresses and new facts emerge. Details of the status
acquire its 36.5% shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint
and various uncertainties involved in the significant unresolved
Venture at a market-based valuation. This right is exercisable in
disputes are set out in Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.
certain windows from 2018 to 2035 and may be exercised either in
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have respect of Novartis’ entire shareholding or in up to four instalments.
established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts GSK has recognised a financial liability of £8,606 million at
and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting 31 December 2017 (2016 – £7,420 million). This represents the
requirements. In respect of product liability claims related to certain present value of the redemption value estimated by GSK in the event
products there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to of full exercise of the right by Novartis and is calculated by applying
enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision relevant public company multiples, with no premium or discount, to
required to cover unasserted claims. The Group may become involved forecast future profits in accordance with the shareholder
in legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible to make a agreements. Sensitivity analysis is given in Note 27, ‘Trade and other
reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that could payables’.
result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases,
Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if either
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be provided, but no
GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed
provision would be made and no contingent liability can be quantified.
within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to acquire its
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts shareholding. A liability for the put option was recognised on the
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation Group’s balance sheet during 2016 at an initial value of £1,070
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. million. GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi on
assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal the Group’s balance sheet during 2016. The liability for the Pfizer put
proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported option, which is derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV
in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount. Healthcare business, utilising both discounted forecast future cash
flow and multiples-based methodologies amounted to £1,304 million
Intangible asset impairments
at 31 December 2017 (2016 – £1,319 million). Sensitivity analysis is
At 31 December 2017, intangible assets were £17,562 million
also given in Note 27, ‘Trade and other payables’.
(2016 – £18,776 million).
Impairment tests on intangible assets are undertaken if events occur
which call into question the carrying values of the assets. In addition,
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, or which are not yet
available for use, are subject to annual impairment tests.
Valuations for impairment tests are based on established market
multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows over the estimated useful
life of the asset, where limited, discounted using appropriate discount
rates as set out in Note 19, ‘Other intangible assets’.
The assumptions relating to future cash flows, estimated useful
lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and are
therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause the
assumptions used in these impairment tests to change with a
consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.168
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates continued
Pensions and other post-employment benefits Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment benefits except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
are assessed on the basis of assumptions selected by management. bonds where government bond yields are used. A sensitivity analysis
These assumptions include future earnings and pension increases, is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on assets and benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to an
mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other increase in the net pension deficit of approximately £800 million and
post-employment benefits’. Where a surplus on a defined benefit an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately £29 million.
scheme arises, or there is potential for a surplus to arise from The selection of different assumptions could affect the future results
committed future contributions, the rights of the Trustees to prevent of the Group.
the Group obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future are
considered in determining whether it is necessary to restrict the
amount of the surplus that is recognised.
4. New accounting requirements
The following new and amended accounting standards have been The new Standard is not expected to have a material impact on
issued by the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports. reported results. In its financial statements for 2018, GSK will adopt
IFRS 9 retrospectively, but with certain permitted exceptions.
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ was issued in May
As a result, prior year results will not be restated, but there will be
2014 and has been implemented by the Group from 1 January 2018.
a cumulative adjustment to decrease equity at 1 January 2018 by
The Standard provides a single, principles-based approach to the
approximately £11 million.
recognition of revenue from all contracts with customers. It focuses
on the identification of performance obligations in a contract and IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ was issued in January 2016 and will be
requires revenue to be recognised when or as those performance implemented by the Group from 1 January 2019. The Standard
obligations are satisfied. will replace IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and will require lease liabilities and
‘right of use’ assets to be recognised on the balance sheet for
The new Standard is not expected to have a material impact on the
almost all leases. This is expected to result in a significant increase
amount or timing of recognition of reported revenue. In its financial
in both assets and liabilities recognised. The costs of operating
statements for 2018, GSK will adopt IFRS 15 applying the modified
leases currently included within operating costs will be split and
retrospective approach, with a cumulative adjustment to decrease
the financing element of the charge will be reported within finance
equity at 1 January 2018 by approximately £4 million. In accordance
expense. Finance lease obligations at 31 December 2017 are
with the requirements of the Standard where the modified
set out in Note 31, ‘Net debt’ and the undiscounted commitments
retrospective approach is adopted, prior year results will not
under non-cancellable operating leases are set out in Note 41,
be restated.
‘Commitments’.
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ was issued in its final form in July 2014
The Group is assessing the potential impact of IFRS 16.
and has been implemented by the Group from 1 January 2018. The
Standard replaces the majority of IAS 39 and covers the IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty over income tax treatments’ was issued in June
classification, measurement and de-recognition of financial assets 2017 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2019.
and financial liabilities, introduces a new impairment model for The Interpretation clarifies that if it is considered probable that a tax
financial assets based on expected losses rather than incurred authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment, the tax charge should
losses and provides a new hedge accounting model. be calculated on that basis. If it is not considered probable, the effect
of the uncertainty should be estimated and reflected in the tax charge.
In assessing the uncertainty, it is assumed that the tax authority will
have full knowledge of all information related to the matter.
The Group is continuing to assess the potential impact of the
new Interpretation.
5. Exchange rates
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
2017 2016 2015
the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
Average rates:
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into Sterling and period
US$/£ 1.30 1.36 1.53
end rates to translate the net assets of those entities. The currencies
Euro/£ 1.15 1.23 1.37
which most influence these translations and the relevant exchange
rates were as follows: Yen/£ 145 149 185
Period end rates:
US$/£ 1.35 1.24 1.47
Euro/£ 1.13 1.17 1.36
Yen/£ 152 144 177169
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
6. Segment information
Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities of the
Corporate Executive Team (CET). GSK reports results under four segments: Pharmaceuticals; Pharmaceuticals R&D; Vaccines and
Consumer Healthcare, and individual members of the CET are responsible for each segment.
The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is recorded,
and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
As explained on page 58, from 1 January 2017 only significant legal charges have been excluded from segment profit and reported within
other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit. Segment profits for 2016 and 2015 have been revised onto a
comparable basis.
Corporate and other unallocated turnover and costs included the results of several Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products which
were held for sale in a number of markets in order to meet anti-trust approval requirements in 2015, together with the costs of corporate
functions.
2017 2016 2015
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,276 16,104 14,157
Vaccines 5,160 4,592 3,656
Consumer Healthcare 7,750 7,193 6,038
Segment turnover 30,186 27,889 23,851
Corporate and other unallocated turnover – – 72
30,186 27,889 23,923
2017 2016 2015
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 6,991 6,510 5,741
HIV 4,350 3,556 2,322
Immuno-inflammation 377 340 263
Established Pharmaceuticals 5,558 5,698 5,831
17,276 16,104 14,157
During 2017, the US operations of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses made sales to three wholesalers of approximately
£2,449 million (2016 – £2,139 million; 2015 – £1,574 million), £3,043 million (2016 – £2,691 million; 2015 – £2,471 million) and
£2,356 million (2016 – £2,129 million; 2015 – £1,602 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.
2017 2016 2015
Vaccines turnover by category £m £m £m
Meningitis 890 662 326
Influenza 488 414 268
Shingles 22 – –
Established Vaccines 3,760 3,516 3,062
5,160 4,592 3,656
2017 2016 2015
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category £m £m £m
Wellness 4,001 3,726 2,970
Oral care 2,466 2,223 1,875
Nutrition 680 674 684
Skin health 603 570 509
7,750 7,193 6,038170
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Segment information continued
2016 2015
2017 (revised) (revised)
Segment profit
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 8,667 7,976 6,449
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,740) (2,488) (2,168)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 5,927 5,488 4,281
Vaccines 1,644 1,429 958
Consumer Healthcare 1,373 1,116 684
Segment profit 8,944 8,033 5,923
Corporate and other unallocated costs (376) (362) (264)
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (4,481) (5,073) 4,663
Operating profit 4,087 2,598 10,322
Finance income 65 72 104
Finance costs (734) (736) (757)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 94 – 843
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 5 14
Profit before taxation 3,525 1,939 10,526
Taxation (1,356) (877) (2,154)
Profit after taxation for the year 2,169 1,062 8,372
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit. These
include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets, major restructuring charges, significant legal charges and expenses on the
settlement of litigation and government investigations, disposals of businesses, products and associates, certain other items related to major
acquisition and disposal activity and the pre-tax impact of the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
2017 2016 2015
Depreciation and amortisation by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 551 440 303
Pharmaceuticals R&D 96 211 238
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 647 651 541
Vaccines 405 315 253
Consumer Healthcare 135 126 140
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,187 1,092 934
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 144 94 145
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and
total depreciation and amortisation 591 588 551
Total depreciation and amortisation 1,922 1,774 1,630171
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
6. Segment information continued
2017 2016 2015
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 38 29 57
Pharmaceuticals R&D 10 88 105
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 48 117 162
Vaccines 13 34 17
Consumer Healthcare 10 46 5
Segment impairment 71 197 184
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 3 24 18
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 995 68 385
Total impairment 1,069 289 587
The other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment included £229 million related to the progressive withdrawal
of Tanzeum.
2017 2016 2015
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals (13) (15) (8)
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2) (10) (10)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D (15) (25) (18)
Vaccines – (19) –
Consumer Healthcare (1) (8) (4)
Segment impairment reversals (16) (52) (22)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals – (26) (2)
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals (36) (9) –
Total impairment reversals (52) (87) (24)
2017 2016
Net assets by segment £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 2,017 3,225
Pharmaceuticals R&D 522 572
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 2,539 3,797
Vaccines 9,707 9,676
Consumer Healthcare 2,003 3,721
Segment net operating assets 14,249 17,194
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets 868 (228)
Net operating assets 15,117 16,966
Net debt (13,178) (13,804)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 183 263
Derivative financial instruments 2 (38)
Current and deferred taxation 1,252 1,361
Assets held for sale 113 215
Net assets 3,489 4,963
The Pharmaceuticals segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £5,542 million
(2016 – £5,304 million) and the Pfizer put option of £1,304 million (2016 – £1,319 million). The Consumer Healthcare segment
includes the put option liability of £8,606 million (2016 – £7,420 million).172
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Segment information continued
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2017 2016 2015
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 940 1,056 1,102
US 11,263 10,197 8,222
International 17,983 16,636 14,599
External turnover 30,186 27,889 23,923
2017 2016
Non-current assets by location of subsidiary £m £m
UK 6,824 7,060
US 6,841 7,802
International 20,901 21,234
Non-current assets 34,566 36,096
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments, pension
assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.
7. Other operating income/(expense)
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Impairment of equity investments (30) (47) (263)
Disposal of equity investments 37 254 342
Disposal of businesses and assets 195 283 9,661
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations (1,012) (2,205) (1,965)
Remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential dividends 13 (577) –
Remeasurement of Consumer Healthcare put option liability (1,186) (1,133) (83)
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 9 (3) 2
Other income/(expense) 9 23 21
(1,965) (3,405) 7,715
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2017 included a profit of £250 million on the disposal of the anaesthesia business to Aspen.
Disposals in 2016 included milestone income of £152 million in relation to the divestment of ofatumumab and a number of other smaller
divestments and in 2015 included the disposal of the Oncology business to Novartis for £9,228 million and an initial £200 million for the
divestment of ofatumumab.
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations included £909 million related to the
acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £53 million payable to Novartis related to the Vaccines acquisition.
The fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration, the remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential
dividends and the remeasurement of Consumer Healthcare put option liability include the additional charge arising from US tax reform
of £666 million.173
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
8. Operating profit
2017 2016 2015
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 9,122 8,212 8,030
Advertising 1,351 1,265 1,059
Distribution costs 405 395 376
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 988 978 892
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 327 180 346
Amortisation of intangible assets 934 796 738
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 690 22 217
Net foreign exchange losses 215 53 47
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 8,526 8,093 7,602
Write-down of inventories 701 533 488
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (352) (145) (65)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 110 91 101
Contingent rents 4 4 8
Sub-lease payments 5 4 7
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 29.2 29.7 33.1
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
Net foreign exchange losses include a net loss of £109 million (2016 – £nil; 2015 – £nil) of exchange arising on the reclassification of
exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries.
Included within operating profit are major restructuring charges of £1,056 million (2016 – £970 million; 2015 – £1,891 million), see Note 10,
‘Major restructuring costs’.
2017 2016 2015
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 7.0 5.8 7.5
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 16.2 16.4 16.3
Attestation under s.404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 4.5 4.4 4.3
Audit and audit-related services 27.7 26.6 28.1
Taxation compliance 0.2 0.2 0.3
Taxation advice 0.1 1.8 3.2
Other assurance services 1.0 0.3 1.1
All other services 0.2 0.8 0.4
29.2 29.7 33.1
The other assurance services provided by the auditor relate to agreed upon procedures and other assurance services outside of statutory
audit requirements. All other services provided by the auditor primarily related to advisory services for the year ended 31 December 2017.
In addition to the above, fees paid in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Audit 0.3 0.4 0.3
Other services 0.1 – –174
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
9. Employee costs
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 7,116 6,391 6,132
Social security costs 802 733 633
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 616 541 467
Cost of share-based incentive plans 347 338 349
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 241 209 449
9,122 8,212 8,030
The increase in wages and salaries included the impact of movements in exchange rates. The Group provides benefits to employees,
commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and
personal life assurance.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 276 271 307
Performance Share Plan 47 39 26
Share option plans 4 4 4
Cash settled and other plans 20 24 12
347 338 349
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2017 2016 2015
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 38,632 38,611 37,025
Selling, general and administration 49,141 49,961 52,121
Research and development 11,576 11,255 12,046
99,349 99,827 101,192
The average monthly number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of
each financial year are given in the financial record on page 250. The monthly average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline
plc in 2017 was nil (2016 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 26 25 23
Social security costs 4 4 2
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 2 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 22 15 18
55 46 46175
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
10. Major restructuring costs
Major restructuring costs charged in arriving at operating profit include restructuring costs arising under the Major Change programme
initiated in 2013, under the Pharmaceuticals Restructuring Programme announced in October 2014, following the Novartis transaction
completed in 2015 and the CEO Strategic Initiatives Programme announced in July 2017.
The total restructuring costs of £1,056 million in 2017 were incurred in the following areas:
– Restructuring of the R&D organisation, predominantly in the United Kingdom and North America.
– Projects to simplify or eliminate processes leading to staff reductions in support functions.
– Restructuring of the Pharmaceuticals commercial operating model and supply chain leading to staff reductions in sales force and
administration.
– Transformation of the manufacturing and Vaccines businesses to deliver a step change in quality, cost and productivity.
The costs charged to operating profit under these programmes were as follows:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) 259 163 718
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) (43) (140) (44)
Impairment losses recognised 278 158 419
Other non-cash charges 247 108 51
Other cash costs 315 681 747
1,056 970 1,891
Provision reversals of £43 million (2016 – £140 million; 2015 – £44 million) reflected the release of legacy support function and Novartis
integration provisions. Asset impairments of £278 million (2016 – £158 million; 2015 – £419 million) and other non-cash charges totalling
£247 million (2016 – £108 million; 2015 – £51 million) are non-cash items, principally fixed asset write downs across support functions,
manufacturing and research facilities and accelerated depreciation where asset lives in R&D and manufacturing have been shortened as a
result of the major restructuring programme. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and include the termination of leases, site
closure costs, consultancy and project management fees.
11. Finance income
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
cash and cash equivalents 60 67 71
available-for-sale investments 2 1 1
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss – – 24
loans and receivables 1 2 3
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 2 2 5
65 72 104
All derivatives accounted for at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 42,
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39.176
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
12. Finance expense
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
financial liabilities at amortised cost (698) (671) (655)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (22) (30) (64)
Fair value movements on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (4) (3) (6)
Reclassification of cash flow hedge from other comprehensive income – (1) (2)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (16) (16) (16)
Other finance expense 6 (15) (14)
(734) (736) (757)
All derivatives accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 42,
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’), are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest expense arising
on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense. Other finance expense includes a £24 million credit for
interest relating to income taxes (see Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’). The amounts for 2016 and 2015 were not material and
so comparatives have not been restated.
13. Associates and joint ventures
The Group’s share of after tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Share of after tax profits of associates 16 9 16
Share of after tax losses of joint ventures (3) (4) (2)
13 5 14
At 31 December 2017, the Group held one significant associate, Innoviva, Inc.
Summarised income statement information in respect of Innoviva is set out below for the periods in which the Group accounted for its
investment in Innoviva as an associate. The Group’s 2017 share of after tax profits of associates and other comprehensive income includes
a profit of £18 million and other comprehensive income of £nil in respect of Innoviva.
Since
1 September
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Turnover 165 98 20
Profit after taxation 103 44 4
Other comprehensive income – – –
Total comprehensive income 103 44 4
The results of Innoviva included in the summarised income statement information above represent the estimated earnings of Innoviva in the
relevant periods. Innoviva’s turnover is from royalty income from GSK in relation to Relvar/Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta and Trelegy Ellipta sales.
Aggregated financial information in respect of GSK’s share of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Share of turnover 252 133 188
Share of after tax (losses)/profits (5) (1) 12
Share of other comprehensive income – – 25
Share of total comprehensive (expense)/income (5) (1) 37
The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £41 million in 2017 (2016 – £43 million; 2015 – £41 million).177
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
14. Taxation
The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax expense.
2017 2016 2015
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK current year charge 199 241 156
Rest of World current year charge 1,928 1,326 2,924
Credit in respect of prior periods (508) (149) (508)
Total current taxation 1,619 1,418 2,572
Total deferred taxation (263) (541) (418)
Total tax 1,356 877 2,154
In 2017, GSK made payments of £212 million in UK corporation tax to HMRC. These amounts are for UK corporation tax only, and do not
include the various other business taxes borne in the UK by GSK each year.
The deferred tax credit in 2017 reflected the revaluation of existing deferred tax liabilities to reflect a lower Swiss tax rate applicable following
Swiss tax reform, and an increase in deferred tax assets related to intra-Group profit on inventory. The impact of these items was partly offset
by the revaluation of existing deferred tax assets to reflect the lower headline US tax rate following enactment of US tax reform. In comparison
to 2017, the 2016 and 2015 net deferred tax credits were impacted to a greater extent by remeasurements of the contingent consideration in
relation to the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. In 2015, the credit also included the unwind of deferred tax liabilities on the
disposal of the Group’s Oncology business to Novartis.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax charge
for the year.
2017 2017 2016 2016 2015 2015
Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits £m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 3,525 1,939 10,526
UK statutory rate of taxation 679 19.25 388 20.0 2,131 20.25
Differences in overseas taxation rates 635 18.0 593 30.6 1,035 9.8
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (458) (13.0) (321) (16.5) (286) (2.7)
R&D credits (75) (2.1) (93) (4.8) (38) (0.4)
Remeasurement of non-taxable put option liabilities 227 6.4 340 17.5 17 0.2
Losses not recognised/(previously unrecognised losses) 28 0.8 (15) (0.8) 31 0.3
Permanent differences on disposals and acquisitions 4 0.1 (21) (1.1) (248) (2.4)
Other permanent differences 196 5.6 97 5.0 58 0.6
Reassessment of prior year estimates in respect of current
and deferred taxes (475) (13.5) (116) (6.0) (578) (5.5)
US and Swiss tax reform 595 16.9
Tax on unremitted earnings – – 25 1.3 32 0.3
Tax charge/tax rate 1,356 38.5 877 45.2 2,154 20.5
GSK has a substantial business presence in many countries around the globe. The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates arose from
profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2017 were the US, Belgium,
and India.
The adverse impact was partly offset by the increased benefit of intellectual property incentives such as the UK Patent Box and Belgian Patent
Income Deduction regimes. Such regimes provide a reduced rate of corporate income tax on profits earned from qualifying patents.
The Group’s 2017 tax rate of 38.5% has been influenced by the impact of US and Swiss tax reforms, together with transaction-related charges
arising on the Group’s put option liabilities in relation to ViiV Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture and the reassessment of
estimates of uncertain tax positions following the settlement of a number of open issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions.
Included within Other permanent differences is a £34 million charge that arises following the enactment of Belgium tax reform during 2017.
Future tax charges, and therefore the Group’s effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructurings, the
location of research and development activity, tax regime reforms and resolution of open matters as we continue to bring our tax affairs up to
date around the world.178
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
2017 2016 2015
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments – 7 22
Defined benefit plans 26 32 30
26 39 52
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments (4) – (12)
Defined benefit plans (247) 94 (110)
Exchange movements – – –
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 –
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 29 51 (55)
(222) 147 (177)
Total (charge)/credit to equity and statement of comprehensive income (196) 186 (125)
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments.
Following enactment of US and Belgian tax reform, the Group has recognised deferred tax charges of £27 million and £25 million
respectively to equity and the statement of comprehensive income. Both amounts are included within the £222 million net deferred tax
charge presented above.
International tax reform
The Group’s tax charge has been influenced by the impact of international tax reform enacted during the year. The US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
(‘the Act’) is expected to have a positive impact on the future after tax earnings of GSK’s US businesses. However, enactment of the new law
in 2017 has resulted in a number of non-recurring charges. In addition, enactment of Swiss tax reform during 2017 resulted in a non-recurring
tax credit arising from the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities relating to certain Consumer Healthcare brands, acquired from Novartis in
2015, to reflect a reduction in the headline Swiss tax rate.
The charges associated with US tax reform are based on the information currently available. As further guidance from the US Treasury on
implementation of the Act becomes available, particularly with regard to the repatriation tax provisions, the assumptions underlying these
estimates could change. This could result in adjustments to the charges taken that could have a material impact on the results of the Group.
The impact of tax reform on profits attributable to shareholders in 2017 is set out below.
Swiss tax US tax
reform reform
£m £m
Other operating expenses – (666)
Current tax – (273)
Deferred tax 483 (805)
Impact on profit after taxation for the year 483 (1,744)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 176 (114)
Profit attributable to shareholders 307 (1,630)
The valuations of the HIV and Consumer Healthcare businesses have increased due to lower US tax rates. This has resulted in an increase
in the related liabilities for contingent consideration and the put options and hence an additional operating cost of £666 million. The current
tax charge in respect of US tax reform relates primarily to the introduction of a repatriation tax on the accumulated reserves of non-US
subsidiaries of US entities in the Group, the cash impact of which will be spread over eight years from 2018 onwards. The deferred tax
charge relates primarily to the revaluation of existing balance sheet tax assets held against future liabilities, such as pensions.
The tax charge associated with US tax reform was partly offset by an allocation to non-controlling interests amounting to £114 million, as many
of the adjustments related to ViiV Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture. The tax credit associated with Swiss tax reform was
similarly offset with a £176 million charge due to an allocation to non-controlling interests related to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
The impact on the tax charge arising from US tax reform was as follows:
Current tax Deferred tax Total
£m £m £m
Revaluation of assets and liabilities 75 (805) (730)
Repatriation tax (348) – (348)
(273) (805) (1,078)
The Group also incurred a charge of £34 million following the enactment of Belgian tax reform during 2017, predominantly relating to the
revaluation of existing deferred tax assets.
Continued focus on tax reform is expected in 2018 and future years driven by the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) project
and European Commission initiatives including fiscal state aid investigations. Together with domestic initiatives around the world these may
result in significant changes to established tax principles and an increase in tax authority disputes. In turn, this could adversely affect GSK’s
effective tax rate or could result in higher cash tax liabilities.179
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
14. Taxation continued
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a limited
number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. In line with current OECD guidelines the
Group base our transfer pricing policy on the ‘arm’s length’ principle. However, different tax authorities may seek to attribute further profit to
activities being undertaken in their jurisdiction, potentially resulting in double taxation. The Group also has open items in several jurisdictions
concerning such matters as the deductibility of particular expenses and the tax treatment of certain business transactions. GSK applies a
risk-based approach to determine the transactions most likely to be subject to challenge and the probability that the Group would be able to
obtain compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgment in respect of certain items
whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through
a formal legal process. At 31 December 2017 the Group had recognised provisions of £1,175 million in respect of such uncertain tax
positions (2016 – £1,892 million). The decrease in recognised provisions during 2017 was driven by the reassessment of estimates and
the utilisation of provisions for uncertain tax positions following the settlement of a number of open issues with tax authorities in various
jurisdictions. The transfer of accrued interest payable on tax balances to ‘Other payables’ and the foreign exchange impact of revaluing
overseas exposures also contributed to the reduction in recognised provisions. Whilst the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements with the relevant tax authorities, or litigation where appropriate, the
Group continues to believe that it has made appropriate provision for periods which are open and not yet agreed by the tax authorities. We
do not currently anticipate any material changes to the amounts provided for transfer pricing or tax contingencies during the next 12 months.
A provision for deferred tax liabilities of £209 million (2016 – £205 million) has been made in respect of withholding taxation that would arise
on the distribution of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. Whilst the aggregate amount of unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was
approximately £17 billion (2016 – £18 billion), the majority of these unremitted profits would not be subject to tax (including withholding tax)
on repatriation, as UK legislation relating to company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most overseas profits, subject to
certain exceptions. In prior years, a temporary difference arose on the accumulated reserves of non-US subsidiaries of US entities in the
Group. As the timing of reversal of this temporary difference could be controlled and was not considered probable in the foreseeable future,
deferred tax had not been provided. However, as a result of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the temporary difference reversed and the Group
recorded a one-off repatriation tax charge of £348 million. Accordingly, the unremitted profits on which deferred tax has not been provided is
now £nil (2016 – £1.7 billion).
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated other post option net
capital Intangible Contingent Intra-Group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances assets consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2017 (377) (2,324) 1,138 1,054 1,262 227 110 1,350 2,440
Exchange adjustments (7) 75 – (58) (48) (5) (4) (18) (65)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 62 330 (52) 256 3 59 (1) (88) 569
Credit/(charge) to income statement
associated with US tax reform 5 116 (218) (235) (210) (20) (27) (216) (805)
Credit to income statement
associated with Swiss tax reform – 483 – – – – – – 483
(Charge)/credit to statement of
comprehensive income and equity – – – – (247) – (4) 29 (222)
At 31 December 2017 (317) (1,320) 868 1,017 760 261 74 1,057 2,400
The net deferred tax credit of £247 million to the income statement included a £483 million credit associated with Swiss tax reform and a
£569 million credit in relation to the origination and reversal of temporary differences. These credits were partly offset by a £805 million
charge in relation to US tax reform. The net credit to the income statement of £247 million included a £16 million charge related to R&D
incentives recognised within Operating profit (and not the taxation charge) in the income statement.
Deferred tax liabilities provided in relation to intangible assets predominately relate to temporary differences arising on assets and liabilities
acquired as part of historic business combinations. The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets on future obligations in respect of
contingent consideration amounts payable to minority shareholders. These payments are tax deductible at the point in time at which payment
is made.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on intra-Group profits arising on inter-company inventory which are eliminated within the consolidated
financial statements. As intra-Group profits are not eliminated from the individual entities’ tax returns a temporary difference arises that will
reverse at the point in time inventory is sold externally. The deferred tax asset recognised on tax losses of £261 million related to trading
losses. In 2016, £173 million related to trading losses and £54 million related to capital losses. Other net temporary differences included
accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis, such as rebates.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
2017 2016
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 3,796 4,374
Deferred tax liabilities (1,396) (1,934)
2,400 2,440180
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
Deferred tax assets are recognised on US foreign tax credits only where it is possible that future taxable profits will be available. The gross
amount of foreign tax credits on which deferred tax has not been recognised was £721 million at 31 December 2017.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses. Unrecognised tax losses are
as follows:
2017 2016
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Tax losses asset Tax losses asset
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 802 187 786 255
More than 10 years 872 99 842 131
Available indefinitely 86 14 95 15
At 31 December 1,760 300 1,723 401
Capital losses 1,924 372 2,320 396
At 31 December 1,924 372 2,320 396
15. Earnings per share
2017 2016 2015
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 31.4 18.8 174.3
Diluted earnings per share 31.0 18.6 172.3
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of shares
in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived their rights to
dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation to
assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where its
exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions attaching to the
scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2017 2016 2015
Weighted average number of shares in issue
millions millions millions
Basic 4,886 4,860 4,831
Dilution for share options and awards 55 49 57
Diluted 4,941 4,909 4,888
16. Dividends
2017 2016 2015
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m
First interim 13 July 2017 19 928 14 July 2016 19 923 9 July 2015 19 920
Second interim 12 October 2017 19 929 13 October 2016 19 925 1 October 2015 19 919
Third interim 11 January 2018 19 929 12 January 2017 19 925 14 January 2016 19 919
Fourth interim 12 April 2018 23 1,125 13 April 2017 23 1,124 14 April 2016 23 1,114
Total 80 3,911 80 3,897 80 3,872
Special dividend 14 April 2016 20 969
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a
dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2017 financial statements recognise those
dividends paid in 2017, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2016, and the first and second interim dividends for 2017.
The amounts recognised in each year were as follows:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,906 4,850 3,874181
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
17. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2016 7,305 10,775 2,670 20,750
Exchange adjustments 956 1,100 271 2,327
Other additions 117 384 1,043 1,544
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 30 30
Disposals and write-offs (349) (1,422) (53) (1,824)
Reclassifications 110 512 (761) (139)
Transfer to assets held for sale (378) (114) (32) (524)
Cost at 31 December 2016 7,761 11,235 3,168 22,164
Exchange adjustments (127) (62) (45) (234)
Other additions 69 296 1,219 1,584
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 30 30
Disposals and write-offs (376) (685) (31) (1,092)
Reclassifications 602 1,186 (1,826) (38)
Transfer to assets held for sale (462) (219) (14) (695)
Cost at 31 December 2017 7,467 11,751 2,501 21,719
Depreciation at 1 January 2016 (2,914) (7,415) – (10,329)
Exchange adjustments (377) (717) – (1,094)
Charge for the year (338) (640) – (978)
Disposals and write-offs 205 1,270 – 1,475
Transfer to assets held for sale 165 92 – 257
Depreciation at 31 December 2016 (3,259) (7,410) – (10,669)
Exchange adjustments 50 110 – 160
Charge for the year (299) (689) – (988)
Disposals and write-offs 158 539 – 697
Transfer to assets held for sale 314 190 – 504
Depreciation at 31 December 2017 (3,036) (7,260) – (10,296)
Impairment at 1 January 2016 (274) (373) (106) (753)
Exchange adjustments (45) (37) (11) (93)
Disposals and write-offs 91 135 35 261
Impairment losses (135) (117) (6) (258)
Reversal of impairments 38 38 2 78
Transfer to assets held for sale 46 10 22 78
Impairment at 31 December 2016 (279) (344) (64) (687)
Exchange adjustments 8 2 (2) 8
Disposals and write-offs 210 104 28 342
Impairment losses (194) (138) (17) (349)
Reversal of impairments 7 9 1 17
Transfer to assets held for sale 87 8 11 106
Impairment at 31 December 2017 (161) (359) (43) (563)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2016 (3,538) (7,754) (64) (11,356)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2017 (3,197) (7,619) (43) (10,859)
Net book value at 1 January 2016 4,117 2,987 2,564 9,668
Net book value at 31 December 2016 4,223 3,481 3,104 10,808
Net book value at 31 December 2017 4,270 4,132 2,458 10,860
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 4% (2016 – 3.8%). Disposals and write-offs in the year
include a number of assets with nil net book value that are no longer in use in the business.182
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment continued
The net book value at 31 December 2017 of the Group’s land and buildings comprised freehold properties £3,896 million (2016 –
£3,887 million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £338 million (2016 – £294 million) and properties with leases of less than
50 years £36 million (2016 – £42 million).
Included in land and buildings at 31 December 2017 were leased assets with a cost of £630 million (2016 – £590 million), accumulated
depreciation of £255 million (2016 – £253 million), impairment of £nil (2016 – £1 million) and a net book value of £375 million
(2016 – £336 million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31 December 2017 were leased assets with a cost of £18 million
(2016 – £44 million), accumulated depreciation of £4 million (2016 – £15 million), impairment of £1 million (2016 – £nil) and a net
book value of £13 million (2016 – £29 million). Some lease agreements include renewal or purchase options or escalation clauses.
The impairment losses principally arose from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs
of disposal or value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on
observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations
determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a
discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for relevant specific risks.
For value in use calculations, where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially different
result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-tax
discount rate of approximately 9%. The net impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales £198 million (2016 – £45 million), R&D
£93 million (2016 – £15 million) and SG&A £36 million (2016 – £120 million), and included £278 million (2016 – £151 million) arising from
the major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arose from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments were deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
The carrying value at 31 December 2017 of assets for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year was £33 million
(2016 – £171 million).
During 2017, £38 million (2016 – £139 million) of computer software was reclassified from assets in construction to intangible assets
on becoming ready for use.
18. Goodwill
2017 2016
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 5,965 5,162
Exchange adjustments (228) 814
Additions through business combinations (Note 38) – 7
Transfer to assets held for sale (3) (18)
Cost at 31 December 5,734 5,965
Net book value at 1 January 5,965 5,162
Net book value at 31 December 5,734 5,965
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s segments as follows:
2017 2016
£m £m
Pharmaceuticals 3,172 3,288
Vaccines 1,302 1,353
Consumer Healthcare 1,260 1,324
Net book value at 31 December 5,734 5,965183
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
18. Goodwill continued
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less costs of
disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected risk-adjusted post-tax
cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7%, as most cash generating units have integrated operations across large parts of
the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific country or currency risks. The valuation methodology uses significant
inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs of disposal
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each region.
Period of specific projected cash flows Five years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
Pharmaceuticals 1% p.a. 7%
Vaccines 2% p.a. 7%
Consumer Healthcare 2% p.a. 7%
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets, reflect the impact of future generic
competition and take account of new product launches.
In each case the valuations indicated sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in
an impairment of the related goodwill. Goodwill is monitored at the segmental level.
The Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite lives with a
carrying value of £228 million (2016 – £211 million). The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also comprises a collection of smaller
cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £8.51 billion (2016 – £9.03 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 19, ‘Other intangible assets’.184
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
19. Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2016 2,028 13,394 387 8,074 23,883
Exchange adjustments 137 1,139 20 1,320 2,616
Capitalised development costs – 219 21 – 240
Capitalised borrowing costs 4 – – – 4
Additions through business combinations – 102 – – 102
Other additions 238 349 – – 587
Disposals and asset write-offs (389) (21) (1) (7) (418)
Transfer to assets held for sale (1) (39) – (12) (52)
Reclassifications 139 – – – 139
Cost at 31 December 2016 2,156 15,143 427 9,375 27,101
Exchange adjustments (37) (215) (4) (272) (528)
Capitalised development costs – 251 – – 251
Capitalised borrowing costs 2 3 – – 5
Other additions 233 221 – – 454
Disposals and asset write-offs (217) (38) – – (255)
Transfer to assets held for sale (1) (90) – (44) (135)
Reclassifications 38 – 66 (66) 38
Cost at 31 December 2017 2,174 15,275 489 8,993 26,931
Amortisation at 1 January 2016 (1,294) (4,030) (133) – (5,457)
Exchange adjustments (92) (410) (5) – (507)
Charge for the year (152) (553) (91) – (796)
Disposals and asset write-offs 353 – 5 – 358
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 10 – – 11
Amortisation at 31 December 2016 (1,184) (4,983) (224) – (6,391)
Exchange adjustments 25 141 – – 166
Charge for the year (163) (761) (10) – (934)
Disposals and asset write-offs 210 25 – – 235
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 25 – – 26
Amortisation at 31 December 2017 (1,111) (5,553) (234) – (6,898)
Impairment at 1 January 2016 (39) (1,439) (154) (122) (1,754)
Exchange adjustments (3) (266) – (3) (272)
Impairment losses (2) (15) – (5) (22)
Disposals and asset write-offs 35 40 11 – 86
Transfer to assets held for sale – 28 – – 28
Impairment at 31 December 2016 (9) (1,652) (143) (130) (1,934)
Exchange adjustments – 110 – 3 113
Impairment losses (2) (546) – (132) (680)
Disposals and asset write-offs 2 5 – – 7
Transfer to assets held for sale – 19 – 4 23
Impairment at 31 December 2017 (9) (2,064) (143) (255) (2,471)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2016 (1,193) (6,635) (367) (130) (8,325)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2017 (1,120) (7,617) (377) (255) (9,369)
Net book value at 1 January 2016 695 7,925 100 7,952 16,672
Net book value at 31 December 2016 963 8,508 60 9,245 18,776
Net book value at 31 December 2017 1,054 7,658 112 8,738 17,562
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 4% (2016 – 3.8%).
The net book value of computer software included £669 million (2016 – £620 million) of internally generated costs.
The charge for impairments in the year included £229 million related to the progressive withdrawal of the pharmaceutical product, Tanzeum,
which was fully impaired. The carrying value at 31 December 2017 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged or reversed
in the year, following those impairments or reversals, was £300 million (2016 – £116 million).
The patent expiry dates of the Group’s most significant assets, where relevant, are set out on pages 254 and 255.185
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
19. Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2017 2016 2017 2016
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 578 582 400 7
Selling, general and administration 116 95 2 2
Research and development 240 119 278 13
934 796 680 22
Licences, patents, etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are either
marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of additions through business combinations in
the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2017 2016
£m £m
Meningitis portfolio 2,450 2,511
dolutegravir 1,389 1,487
Benlysta 965 1,019
Fluarix/FluLaval 321 380
HIV assets acquired from BMS 277 277
Selzentry 162 188
Okairos technology platform 202 173
Others 1,892 2,473
7,658 8,508
The Meningitis portfolio includes Menveo, Bexsero and Men ABCWY.
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop, Inc.
in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001, CNS, Inc. in 2006 and the Novartis Consumer Healthcare business in 2015, together with a
number of pharmaceutical brands from the acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in 2009. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2017 2016
£m £m
Voltaren 2,716 2,847
Otrivin 1,380 1,447
Fenistil 648 680
Theraflu 441 462
Panadol 386 354
Sensodyne 265 243
Lamisil 289 304
Breathe Right 236 199
Stiefel trade name 228 211
Excedrin 185 194
Physiogel 166 166
Polident 112 103
Others 1,686 2,035
8,738 9,245
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support.
The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and market
shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively low. The
Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors which could limit their useful lives.
Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment and other amortised intangible assets are tested when indicators of impairment arise. This testing
applies a fair value less costs of disposal methodology, generally using post-tax cash flow forecasts with a terminal value calculation and a
discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for specific country and currency risks. This valuation
methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as
level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product contribution, the future
expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions and exchange rates. These
assumptions are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in
market conditions and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between nil% and 5% are management’s
estimates of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a
reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these intangible assets.186
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2017 Joint 2016
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 19 244 263 20 187 207
Exchange adjustments (2) (10) (12) 4 41 45
Additions – 15 15 3 8 11
Disposals – (92) (92) – – –
Distributions received (1) (1) (2) (2) (1) (3)
Other movements – (2) (2) (2) – (2)
(Loss)/profit after tax recognised in the consolidated income statement (3) 16 13 (4) 9 5
At 31 December 13 170 183 19 244 263
The Group held one significant associate at 31 December 2017, Innoviva, Inc. At 31 December 2017, the Group owned 32 million shares
or 31.4% of Innoviva, which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ. Innoviva partnered with GSK in the development of the long
acting beta agonist vilanterol and currently receives royalty income from sales of products that contain this component, namely Relvar/Breo
Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta and Trelegy Ellipta. The remaining 85% of the economic interest in these royalties will be due to Theravance Biopharma
Inc., a company spun out of Innoviva in 2014, in which the Group holds 17.8% of the common stock. The investment in Innoviva had a market
value of £336 million at 31 December 2017 (2016 – £278 million).
In 2017, the Group divested its shareholdings in two associates, see Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’.
Summarised balance sheet information, based on results information, in respect of Innoviva is set out below:
At 31 December At 31 December
2017 2016
£m £m
Non-current assets 124 146
Current assets 148 160
Current liabilities (26) (16)
Non-current liabilities (426) (575)
Net liabilities (180) (285)
2017 2016
£m £m
Interest in associated undertaking (57) (84)
Goodwill 86 84
Fair value and other adjustments 118 138
Carrying value at 31 December 147 138187
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
21. Other investments
2017 2016
£m £m
At 1 January 985 1,255
Exchange adjustments (64) 211
Additions 80 96
Net fair value movements 11 130
Impairment losses (30) (24)
Disposals (64) (683)
At 31 December 918 985
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each
balance sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange
quoted bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information, including
the current market value of similar instruments and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. Other investments include listed
investments of £535 million (2016 – £580 million). The most significant of the investments held at 31 December 2017 was in Theravance
Biopharma, Inc. in which the Group holds 17.8% of the common stock. This investment had a fair value at 31 December 2017 of £199 million
(2016 – £248 million). The other investments include equity stakes in companies with which GSK has research collaborations and in
companies which provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest.
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from equity to the income statement based on average cost for shares
acquired at different times.
The impairment losses recorded above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within Other operating income, together
with amounts reclassified from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially result from prolonged or
significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further declines in fair value
are immediately taken to the income statement.
The carrying value at 31 December of Other investments which have been impaired is as follows:
2017 2016
£m £m
Original cost 475 515
Cumulative impairments recognised in the income statement (283) (314)
Subsequent fair value increases 210 282
Carrying value at 31 December 402 483
22. Other non-current assets
2017 2016
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 648 602
Pension schemes in surplus 538 313
Other receivables 227 284
1,413 1,199
23. Inventories
2017 2016
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,193 1,068
Work in progress 2,381 2,299
Finished goods 1,983 1,735
5,557 5,102188
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
24. Trade and other receivables
2017 2016
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of provision for bad and doubtful debts 4,672 4,615
Accrued income 21 64
Other prepayments 308 335
Interest receivable 10 11
Employee loans and advances 19 17
Other receivables 970 984
6,000 6,026
Trade receivables included £11 million (2016 – £9 million) due from associates and joint ventures. Other receivables included £7 million
(2016 – £7 million) due from associates and joint ventures.
2017 2016
Bad and doubtful debt provision
£m £m
At 1 January 207 167
Exchange adjustments (4) 23
Charge for the year 31 77
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (79) (59)
Utilised (15) (1)
At 31 December 140 207
25. Cash and cash equivalents
2017 2016
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 826 1,462
Short-term deposits 3,007 3,435
3,833 4,897
26. Assets held for sale
2017 2016
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 57 184
Goodwill – 13
Other intangibles 49 12
Inventory 7 7
Other – (1)
113 215
Included within Assets held for sale is £31 million of intangible impairments, £10 million PP&E impairments, £21 million intangible impairment
reversals and £15 million PP&E impairment reversals.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be
recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair value
less costs to sell.
Included within Assets held for sale are assets which were written down to fair value less costs to sell of £63 million (2016 – £79 million).
The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore, this valuation is classified as
level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.189
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
27. Trade and other payables
2017 2016
£m £m
Trade payables 3,528 3,596
Wages and salaries 1,228 1,236
Social security 166 120
Consumer Healthcare put option 8,606 –
ViiV Healthcare put option 1,304 1,319
Other payables 363 447
Deferred income 240 158
Customer return and rebate accruals 3,463 2,778
Other accruals 2,072 2,310
20,970 11,964
Trade and other payables included £53 million (2016 – £36 million) due to associates and joint ventures.
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable to customers, and included £2,837 million (2016 – £2,218 million) in respect of US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines,
as more fully described in the Group financial review on page 76. Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based
on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are estimated, they may not fully reflect the final outcome
and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is
reviewed and adjusted quarterly in light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns made and any
changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the
future results of the Group.
The Consumer Healthcare put option liability relates to the ability of Novartis to put its shares in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
to GSK at certain points in the future. As this option became exercisable from 2 March 2018, with payment likely to be due several
months after exercise, it has been classified within current liabilities. The liability is recorded at the present value of the estimated
redemption value, applying a discount rate of 7%, calculated by applying an average of relevant public company multiples approach
with no premium or discount, based on the forecast profits and earnings of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, which forms part
of GSK’s Consumer Healthcare segment. The remeasurement charge in the year was £1,186 million, including the impact of US tax
reform (2016 – £1,133 million), see Note 7, ‘Other operating income/(expense)’. The table below shows on an indicative basis the
income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
2017
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement
£m
10% increase in sales forecasts or sales multiple applied 850
10% decrease in sales forecasts or sales multiple applied (850)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 88
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (76)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 303
10 cent depreciation of Euro (254)
Pfizer’s put option over its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare was recognised during 2016 and is currently exercisable. The table below shows
on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity of the Pfizer put option to reasonably possible changes in key
assumptions.
2017
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 150
10% decrease in sales forecasts (149)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 76
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (66)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 44
10 cent depreciation of Euro (37)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 59.190
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2017 2016 2015
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 198 205 177
US pension schemes 113 106 96
Other overseas pension schemes 218 140 135
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 87 90 59
616 541 467
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 335 304 291
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 55 43 36
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 87 90 59
Defined benefit schemes 477 437 386
Defined contribution pension schemes 139 104 81
616 541 467
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 162 135 127
Selling, general and administration 238 221 194
Research and development 77 81 65
477 437 386
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees. These
arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by state
schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions paid
in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable remuneration
and length of service.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain countries
pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of
the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from AA
rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond yields are used.
Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected inflation rate and pension increases are long-term
predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by
adjusting the SAPS S2 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements
in life expectancy in line with the CMI 2016 projections with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per year for both males and females.
In the US, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2014 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience. These rates are projected
using MP-2017 to allow for future improvements in life expectancy.191
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2037 for an individual then at the age of
60 is as follows:
UK US
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.5 29.5 26.9 28.6
Projected for 2037 29.1 31.1 28.6 30.3
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a general
fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments
are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The Group reviewed the investment strategy of the UK
plans in 2011 and the asset allocation for the UK plans has been adjusted to approximately 55% return seeking assets and 45% liability
matching assets. In 2013, the target asset allocation of the US plans was also updated to 55% return seeking assets and 45% liability
matching assets.
The Pension Plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the Plans’ assets might decline, the investment
returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the Plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return seeking assets to generate future returns and liability matching assets to better match future pension
obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the Plans, with investments across a broad range of assets.
The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term inflation, equities, property, and
bank counterparty risk.
The Plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19R basis, these cash flows are sensitive to
changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-term inflation
corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the liabilities.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to
join a defined contribution scheme. In the US the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were merged
during 2001. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the US.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK US Rest of World
2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 2.80 2.70 2.70
Discount rate 2.50 2.70 3.80 3.60 3.90 4.20 1.60 1.60 2.20
Expected pension increases 3.20 3.20 3.10 n/a n/a n/a 2.20 2.10 2.00
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 2.90 3.20 3.20 0.30 0.30 0.60
Inflation rate 3.20 3.20 3.10 2.25 2.25 2.25 1.70 1.50 1.40192
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December 2017
in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2017 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 79 70 131 280 30
Past service cost 37 – – 37 (2)
Net interest cost 7 31 16 54 59
Expenses 7 12 – 19 –
130 113 147 390 87
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 259 240 (14) 485 64
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2016 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 70 66 110 246 31
Past service cost 52 1 1 54 3
Net interest cost 9 27 20 56 56
Gains from settlements – – (28) (28) –
Expenses 7 12 – 19 –
138 106 103 347 90
Remeasurement losses recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (165) (27) (224) (416) (59)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2015 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 77 67 110 254 22
Past service cost/(credit) 25 2 (10) 17 (8)
Net interest cost 14 22 13 49 52
Losses/(gains) from settlements – 1 (9) (8) (7)
Expenses 7 4 4 15 –
123 96 108 327 59
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 82 (30) 147 199 62
The amounts included within past service costs include £37 million (2016 – £52 million; 2015 – £25 million) of augmentation costs of which
£18 million is arising from major restructuring programmes (see Note 29, ‘Other provisions’).193
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set out in the
table below:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 538 313 258
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (2,043) (2,397) (1,842)
Post-retirement benefits (1,496) (1,693) (1,387)
(3,539) (4,090) (3,229)
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other
defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 4,902 1,448 544 6,894
– unlisted – – 13 13
Multi-asset funds 2,517 – – 2,517
Property: – unlisted 352 209 32 593
Corporate bonds: – listed 297 820 103 1,220
– unlisted 326 – 20 346
Government bonds: – listed 5,127 239 762 6,128
Insurance contracts 849 – 707 1,556
Other assets (1,216) 158 71 (987)
Fair value of assets 13,154 2,874 2,252 18,280
Present value of scheme obligations (13,101) (3,445) (3,239) (19,785)
Net surplus/(obligation) 53 (571) (987) (1,505)
Included in Other non-current assets 470 – 68 538
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (417) (571) (1,055) (2,043)
53 (571) (987) (1,505)
Actual return on plan assets 893 394 82 1,369
The multi-asset funds comprise investments in pooled investment vehicles that are invested across a range of asset classes, increasing
diversification within the growth portfolio.
The index-linked gilts held as part of the UK repo programme are included in government bonds. The related loan is included within ‘Other
assets’ at a value of £(773) million (2016 – £(1,698) million; 2015 – £(2,215) million).
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 5,357 1,358 486 7,201
– unlisted – – 14 14
Multi-asset funds 1,545 – – 1,545
Property: – unlisted 314 216 28 558
Corporate bonds: – listed 292 213 96 601
– unlisted 321 – 24 345
Government bonds: – listed 6,165 815 739 7,719
Insurance contracts 856 – 637 1,493
Other assets (2,267) 288 73 (1,906)
Fair value of assets 12,583 2,890 2,097 17,570
Present value of scheme obligations (12,884) (3,752) (3,018) (19,654)
Net obligation (301) (862) (921) (2,084)
Included in Other non-current assets 276 – 37 313
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (577) (862) (958) (2,397)
(301) (862) (921) (2,084)
Actual return on plan assets 2,473 153 99 2,725194
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 5,187 1,235 355 6,777
– unlisted – – 1 1
Multi-asset funds 481 – – 481
Property: – unlisted 302 175 8 485
Corporate bonds: – listed 251 727 76 1,054
– unlisted 232 – 2 234
Government bonds: – listed 5,687 184 664 6,535
Insurance contracts 755 – 439 1,194
Other assets (2,611) 180 205 (2,226)
Fair value of assets 10,284 2,501 1,750 14,535
Present value of scheme obligations (10,601) (3,134) (2,384) (16,119)
Net obligation (317) (633) (634) (1,584)
Included in Other non-current assets 232 – 26 258
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (549) (633) (660) (1,842)
(317) (633) (634) (1,584)
Actual return on plan assets (17) (30) 23 (24)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2015 10,551 2,531 1,529 14,611 –
Exchange adjustments – 147 (52) 95 –
Additions through business combinations – – 233 233 –
Interest income 374 95 33 502 –
Expenses (7) (4) (4) (15) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (16) (16) –
Remeasurement (391) (125) (10) (526) –
Employer contributions 164 132 112 408 82
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 14 18 14
Benefits paid (411) (275) (89) (775) (96)
Assets at 31 December 2015 10,284 2,501 1,750 14,535 –
Exchange adjustments - 459 305 764 –
Interest income 385 108 37 530 –
Expenses (7) (12) – (19) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (110) (110) –
Remeasurement 2,088 45 62 2,195 –
Employer contributions 319 31 131 481 91
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 14 18 17
Benefits paid (490) (242) (92) (824) (108)
Assets at 31 December 2016 12,583 2,890 2,097 17,570 –
Exchange adjustments – (244) 24 (220) –
Interest income 333 104 33 470 –
Expenses (7) (12) – (19) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (4) (4) –
Remeasurement 560 290 49 899 –
Employer contributions 225 103 116 444 101
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 17 21 17
Benefits paid (544) (257) (80) (881) (118)
Assets at 31 December 2017 13,154 2,874 2,252 18,280 –
During 2017, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £136 million (2016 – £191 million;
2015 – £85 million) and £78 million (2016 – £nil; 2015 – £111 million) to the US scheme. In 2016, GSK reached an agreement with the
trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2014
actuarial funding valuation. Based on the funding agreements following the 2014 valuation, the additional contributions to eliminate the
pension deficit are expected to be £123 million in 2018. The contributions were based on a government bond yield curve approach to
selecting the discount rate; the rate chosen included an allowance for expected investment returns which reflected the asset mix of the
schemes.
Employer contributions for 2018, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £360 million in respect of
defined benefit pension schemes and £90 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.195
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2015 (10,991) (3,133) (2,176) (16,300) (1,397)
Exchange adjustments – (184) 78 (106) (64)
Additions through business combinations – – (397) (397) (11)
Service cost (77) (67) (110) (254) (22)
Past service cost (25) (2) 10 (17) 8
Interest cost (388) (117) (46) (551) (52)
Settlements and curtailments – (1) 25 24 7
Remeasurement 473 95 157 725 62
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (14) (18) (14)
Benefits paid 411 275 89 775 96
Obligations at 31 December 2015 (10,601) (3,134) (2,384) (16,119) (1,387)
Exchange adjustments – (586) (396) (982) (248)
Service cost (70) (66) (110) (246) (31)
Past service cost (52) (1) (1) (54) (3)
Interest cost (394) (135) (57) (586) (56)
Settlements and curtailments – – 138 138 –
Remeasurement (2,253) (72) (286) (2,611) (59)
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (14) (18) (17)
Benefits paid 490 242 92 824 108
Obligations at 31 December 2016 (12,884) (3,752) (3,018) (19,654) (1,693)
Exchange adjustments – 305 (45) 260 119
Service cost (79) (70) (131) (280) (30)
Past service cost (37) – – (37) 2
Interest cost (340) (135) (49) (524) (59)
Settlements and curtailments – – 4 4 –
Remeasurement (301) (50) (63) (414) 64
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (17) (21) (17)
Benefits paid 544 257 80 881 118
Obligations at 31 December 2017 (13,101) (3,445) (3,239) (19,785) (1,496)
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Funded (19,052) (18,974) (15,552)
Unfunded (733) (680) (567)
(19,785) (19,654) (16,119)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme,
together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.75% (2016 – 7%), grading down to 5.0% in 2025 and thereafter. At
31 December 2017, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £1,254 million (2016 – £1,463 million; 2015 – £1,208 million).
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.196
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
At 1 January (2,084) (1,584) (1,689)
Exchange adjustments 40 (218) (11)
Additions through business combinations – – (164)
Service cost (280) (246) (254)
Past service cost (37) (54) (17)
Interest cost (54) (56) (49)
Settlements and curtailments – 28 8
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 899 2,195 (526)
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 209 85 120
(Loss)/gain from change in financial assumptions (555) (2,770) 362
Experience (losses)/gains (68) 74 243
Employer contributions 444 481 408
Expenses/other movements (19) (19) (15)
At 31 December (1,505) (2,084) (1,584)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 47 – 15
(Loss)/gain from change in financial assumptions (1) (81) 59
Experience gains/(losses) 18 22 (12)
64 (59) 62197
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Active 4,611 4,576 5,510
Retired 9,805 9,574 7,969
Deferred 5,369 5,504 4,231
19,785 19,654 17,710
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Active 514 594 499
Retired 981 1,099 887
Deferred 1 – 1
1,496 1,693 1,387
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2017 2016 2015
years years years
Pension benefits 16 16 16
Post-retirement benefits 11 12 12
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2018 annual defined benefit pension and post retirement costs.
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 29
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost (1)
Increase in pension obligation 800
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 41
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 20
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in pension obligation 608
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 39
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 68
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 19
Increase in pension obligation 502198
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2017 344 554 306 296 1,500
Exchange adjustments (29) (16) (8) (6) (59)
Charge for the year 173 259 50 69 551
Reversed unused (7) (43) (3) (36) (89)
Unwinding of discount 2 4 – 10 16
Utilised (288) (233) (41) (67) (629)
Reclassifications and other movements (9) (3) – 5 (7)
Transfer to Pension obligations – (18) – – (18)
At 31 December 2017 186 504 304 271 1,265
To be settled within one year 138 292 90 109 629
To be settled after one year 48 212 214 162 636
At 31 December 2017 186 504 304 271 1,265
Legal and other disputes The Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme, announced in
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other October 2014, has been focused on rescaling commercial
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in operations, global support functions and certain R&D/manufacturing
Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other disputes operations across Pharmaceuticals. In addition, an integration
include amounts relating to product liability, anti-trust, government restructuring programme was initiated in 2015, following the
investigations, contract terminations, self insurance and completion of the Novartis transaction, and the CEO Strategic
environmental clean-up. Initiatives Programme was announced in July 2017. All of these
restructuring and integration programmes are now reported together
The charge for the year of £166 million (net of reversals and
as one combined major restructuring programme.
estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to provisions
for product liability cases regarding Paxil and other products, Provisions for staff severance payments are made when management
commercial disputes and various other government investigations. has made a formal decision to eliminate certain positions and this
has been communicated to the groups of employees affected and
The discount on the provisions increased by £2 million in 2017
appropriate consultation procedures completed, where appropriate.
(2016 – increased by £1 million). The discount was calculated
No provision is made for staff severance payments that are made
using risk-adjusted projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return.
immediately.
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products,
Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
£18 million (2016 – £23 million) have been charged during the
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to
year and then transferred to the pension obligations provision as
cover unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may
shown in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome
Asset write-downs have been recognised as impairments of
of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement
property, plant and equipment in Note 17, ‘Property, plant and
negotiations.
equipment’. The majority of the amounts provided are expected
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these to be utilised in the next two years.
matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over
Employee related provisions
many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various appeal
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain medical
procedures, often take many years to reach resolution, and
benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in the US. At
out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be protracted.
31 December 2017, the provision for these benefits amounted to
The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of £108 million (2016 – £135 million). Other employee benefits reflect
the disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based a variety of provisions for severance costs, jubilee awards and other
on its current assessment of the progress of these disputes, long-service benefits.
estimates that £138 million of the amount provided at 31 December
Other provisions
2017 will be settled within one year. At 31 December 2017, it was
Included in other provisions are insurance provisions of £6 million
expected that £nil million (2016 – £nil) of the provision made for legal
(2016 – £40 million), onerous property lease provisions of
and other disputes will be reimbursed by third party insurers. For a
£38 million (2016 – £39 million) and a number of other provisions
discussion of legal issues, see Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.
including vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.
Major restructuring programmes
In 2013, the Group initiated the Major Change restructuring
programme focused on opportunities to simplify supply chain
processes, build the Group’s capabilities in manufacturing and
R&D and restructure the European Pharmaceuticals business.199
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
30. Other non-current liabilities
2017 2016
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 104 66
Consumer Healthcare put option liability – 7,420
Other payables 877 959
981 8,445
31. Net debt
2017 2016
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 78 89
Cash and cash equivalents 3,833 4,897
3,911 4,986
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper (529) (1,094)
Bank loans and overdrafts (236) (332)
Obligations under finance leases (23) (23)
1.50% US$ US Medium Term Note 2017 New York Stock Exchange – (1,612)
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange – (1,068)
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange (2,037) –
(2,825) (4,129)
Long-term borrowings:
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange – (2,216)
0.625% € European Medium Term Note 2019 London Stock Exchange (1,324) (1,276)
0% € European Medium Term Note 2020 London Stock Exchange (1,060) –
2.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,474) (1,603)
2.8% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (919) (999)
1.375% € European Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (876) (845)
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (659) (635)
1% € European Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (617) –
3.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (593) (593)
1.375% € European Medium Term Note 2029 London Stock Exchange (439) –
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (986) (986)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (368) (401)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (2,021) (2,199)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (695) (695)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (989) (988)
4.2% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (363) (395)
4.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (789) (789)
Obligations under finance leases (43) (41)
Other long term borrowings (49) –
(14,264) (14,661)
Net debt (13,178) (13,804)200
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At 31 December 2017, they included US Treasury Notes and other
government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31 December 2017 was approximately 1.0% (2016 – approximately
0.7%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2017 earning interest at floating rates amount to £78 million (2016 – £89 million).
Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2017 earning interest at fixed rates amount to £nil million (2016 – £nil).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2017 was approximately 1.3% (2016 – approximately 1.3%).
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2017 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £3,832 million and £1 million
respectively (2016 – £4,584 million and £3 million).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is referred to in Note 42, ‘Financial instruments and related
disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a $10 billion (£7.4 billion) US commercial paper programme, of which $0.7 billion (£0.5 billion) was in issue at 31 December 2017
(2016 – $1.4 billion (£1.1 billion)). GSK also has £1.9 billion five year committed facilities and $2.5 billion (£1.9 billion) of 364 day committed
facilities. The five-year committed facilities were agreed in September 2015 and were extended by one year to 2021 in September 2016.
The 364 day committed facilities were agreed in August 2017. Liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents were as shown in the table
on page 199.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31 December 2017 was 1.53% (2016 – 0.88%).
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2017 was 4.65% (2016 – 3.47%).
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of notes classified as short term at 31 December 2017 was 5.92% (2016 – 3.18%).
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £14.3 billion (2016 – £14.7 billion) of which £10.3 billion (2016 – £11.1 billion) falls due
in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2017 was approximately 3.6%
(2016 – approximately 4.1%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 1.07% and 6.66%, with repayment dates ranging
from 2023 to 2045.
Pledged assets
The Group held pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $105 million (£78 million), (2016 – $105 million (£85 million))
as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance activity. Provisions in
respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. In addition,
£20 million (2016 – £23 million) of assets included in Note 22, ‘Other non-current assets’, which do not form part of Net debt, were pledged
as collateral against future rental payments under operating lease arrangements entered into by Human Genome Sciences, Inc. prior to its
acquisition by the Group.
Finance lease obligations
2017 2016
£m £m
Rental payments due within one year 25 25
Rental payments due between one and two years 29 23
Rental payments due between two and three years 9 12
Rental payments due between three and four years 3 7
Rental payments due between four and five years 2 –
Rental payments due after five years 10 –
Total future rental payments 78 67
Future finance charges (12) (3)
Total finance lease obligations 66 64
32. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2017, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of business,
amounted to £434 million (2016 – £281 million). At 31 December 2017, £2 million (2016 – £1 million) of financial assets were pledged as
collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the Group
will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable estimate of that outflow. At 31 December 2017, other than for those disputes
where provision has been made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might be required to
settle disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote. Descriptions of the significant tax, legal and other
disputes to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.201
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
33. Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2015 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2016 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2017 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2015 5,355,297,232 1,339 2,759
Issued under employee share schemes 6,010,415 1 72
At 31 December 2015 5,361,307,647 1,340 2,831
Issued under employee share schemes 7,008,415 2 87
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 36
At 31 December 2016 5,368,316,062 1,342 2,954
Issued under employee share schemes 4,237,758 1 55
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 10
At 31 December 2017 5,372,553,820 1,343 3,019
31 December 2017 31 December 2016
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 38,647 71,382
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,588,799 4,560,302
At 31 December 2017, of the issued share capital, 66,696,677 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 414,605,950 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,891,251,193 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of the
shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 43, ‘Employee share schemes’.202
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
34. Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £(4,430) million at 31 December 2017 (2016 – £(3,172) million; 2015 – £943 million)
of which £334 million (2016 – £329 million; 2015 – £283 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative
translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2015 (137) 4 (117) (250)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (624) 6 8 (610)
At 31 December 2015 (761) 10 (109) (860)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 633 13 603 1,249
At 31 December 2016 (128) 23 494 389
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 462 – (149) 313
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 109 – – 109
At 31 December 2017 443 23 345 811
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2017 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 462 – – 462
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 109 – – 109
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (14) – (14)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (42) – (42)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 47 – 47
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available for sale investments – (18) – (18)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (10) – (10)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (149) (149)
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 549 – – 549
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (221) – – (221)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 899 (37) (149) 713
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2016 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 633 13 – 646
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 251 – 251
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (245) – (245)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – 51 – 51
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1 – 1
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – 603 603
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans (475) – – (475)
Tax on remeasurement losses in defined benefit plans 126 – – 126
Other comprehensive income for the year 284 75 603 962203
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
34. Movements in equity continued
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2015 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (624) 6 – (618)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 416 – 416
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (91) – (91)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (346) – (346)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – 36 – 36
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 2 – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Share of other comprehensive expense of associates and joint ventures (77) – – (77)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – 8 8
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 261 – – 261
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (80) – – (80)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (520) 25 8 (487)
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2015 (151) 274 (13) 2,129 2,239
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (356) 2 – (354)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairments – 10 – – 10
Net fair value movement in the year – 367 2 – 369
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (99) – – – (99)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 175 – – – 175
At 31 December 2015 (75) 295 (9) 2,129 2,340
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals (16) (268) – – (284)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairments – 23 – – 23
Net fair value movement in the year – 330 6 – 336
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (576) – – – (576)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 381 – – – 381
At 31 December 2016 (286) 380 (3) 2,129 2,220
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals 22 (42) – – (20)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairments – – – – –
Net fair value movement in the year – (9) (8) – (17)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (656) – – – (656)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 520 – – – 520
At 31 December 2017 (400) 329 (11) 2,129 2,047
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2017
(2016 – £1,849 million; 2015 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the
share buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2017 (2016 – £280 million; 2015 – £280 million).204
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
35. Related party transactions
At 31 December 2017, GSK owned 32 million shares or 31.4% of Innoviva Inc. which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ.
GSK began recognising Innoviva as an associate on 1 September 2015. The royalties due from GSK to Innoviva in the year were £173 million
(2016 – £108 million). At 31 December 2017, the balance payable by GSK to Innoviva was £53 million (2016 – £36 million).
At 31 December 2017, GSK held a 50% interest in Japan Vaccine Co. Ltd (JVC) through its subsidiary GlaxoSmithKline K.K. This joint
venture with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd is primarily responsible for the development and marketing of certain prophylactic vaccines in Japan.
During 2017, GSK sold £41 million (2016 – £43 million) of its vaccine products into the joint venture. At 31 December 2017, the trading
balance due to GSK from JVC was £11 million (2016 – £9 million) and the balance payable by GSK to JVC was £nil million (2016 – £nil).
Loans of £7 million to JVC, £7 million to Medicxi Ventures I LP and £8 million to Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP remained due to GSK at
31 December 2017.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 9, ‘Employee costs’.
36. Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 2,169 1,062 8,372
Tax on profits 1,356 877 2,154
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (13) (5) (14)
Finance expense net of finance income 669 664 653
Depreciation 988 978 892
Amortisation of intangible assets 934 796 738
Impairment and assets written off 1,061 226 822
Profit on sale of businesses (157) (5) (9,308)
Profit on sale of intangible assets (46) (178) (349)
Profit on sale of investments in associates (94) – (843)
Profit on sale of equity investments (37) (254) (342)
Changes in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (461) 70 (111)
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables (287) (188) 98
Increase in trade payables 11 96 40
Decrease/(increase) in other receivables 74 381 (593)
Contingent consideration paid (see Note 39) (594) (358) (121)
Other non-cash increase in contingent consideration liabilities 961 2,281 1,986
Increase in other payables 1,741 1,989 276
(Decrease)/increase in pension and other provisions (255) (621) 100
Share-based incentive plans 333 319 368
Fair value adjustments – (3) –
Other (95) (21) (187)
6,089 7,044 (3,741)
Cash generated from operations 8,258 8,106 4,631205
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
37. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (13,804) (10,727) (14,377)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (905) (1,164) 1,503
(Decrease)/increase in liquid investments (4) – 2
Net increase in long-term loans (2,233) – –
Net repayment of/(increase in) short-term loans 3,200 (148) 2,412
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 23 18 25
Exchange adjustments 585 (1,781) (268)
Other non-cash movements (40) (2) (24)
Movement in net debt 626 (3,077) 3,650
Net debt at end of year (13,178) (13,804) (10,727)
At 1 January Profit Reclass- At 31 December
2017 Exchange Other and loss ifications Disposals Cash flow 2017
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 89 (7) – – – – (4) 78
Cash and cash equivalents 4,897 (106) – – – (6) (952) 3,833
Overdrafts (292) 6 – – – – 53 (233)
4,605 (100) – – – (6) (899) 3,600
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (1,094) 37 – – – – 528 (529)
European and US Medium Term Notes (2,680) 121 – – (2,114) – 2,636 (2,037)
Other (63) 2 (5) – (19) – 59 (26)
(3,837) 160 (5) – (2,133) – 3,223 (2,592)
Debt due after one year:
European and US Medium Term Notes (14,620) 530 4 (16) 2,114 – (2,233) (14,221)
Other (41) 2 (23) – 19 – – (43)
(14,661) 532 (19) (16) 2,133 – (2,233) (14,264)
Net debt (13,804) 585 (24) (16) – (6) 87 (13,178)
Analysis of changes in liabilities from financing activities
Debt due within one year (3,837) 160 (5) – (2,133) – 3,223 (2,592)
Debt due after one year (14,661) 532 (19) (16) 2,133 – (2,233) (14,264)
Hedge of borrowings:
Derivative financial instruments (38) – 37 5 – – (2) 2
Other financing items – 91 – – – – (91) –
Interest payable (158) 4 1 (731) (100) – 781 (203)
Total liabilities from financing activities (18,694) 787 14 (742) (100) – 1,678 (17,057)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 31, ‘Net debt’.206
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2017
Business acquisitions
There were no business acquisitions during 2017.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of small business disposals during the year for a net cash consideration of £342 million, including contingent
consideration receivable of £86 million. The profit on disposal was determined as follows:
Total
£m
Consideration including currency forwards and purchase adjustments 342
Net assets sold:
Goodwill (16)
Intangible assets (21)
Property, plant and equipment (18)
Inventory (11)
Cash and cash equivalents (6)
Other net assets (5)
(77)
Transaction costs (8)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (100)
Profit on disposal 157
Investment in associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made cash investments of £15 million into associates and joint ventures. In addition, GSK sold its holdings in two
associates for £198 million in cash.
Total
£m
Cash consideration 198
Net book value of shares (92)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (7)
Transaction costs (5)
Profit on disposal 94
Cash flows
Associates Associates
Business and JV and JV
disposals investments disposals
£m £m £m
Cash consideration 256 (15) 198
Net deferred consideration received 39 – –
Cash and cash equivalents divested (6) – –
Transaction costs paid (7) – (2)
Cash inflow 282 (15) 196
2016
Business acquisitions
GSK completed two small business acquisitions during 2016.
Cash consideration of £24 million was paid in the year to acquire the HIV R&D preclinical and discovery stage portfolio from Bristol Myers
Squibb. Further consideration, contingent on commercial milestones and future sales performance, may be due, and an initial estimate of
£40 million was recognised for this contingent consideration. Intangible assets acquired were valued at £57 million and goodwill of £7 million
was recognised.
GSK formed Galvani Bioelectronics Limited during the year and acquired intangible assets of £45 million and cash and cash equivalents of
£41 million from Verily Life Sciences LLC in return for a 45% shareholding in Galvani Bioelectronics. The fair value of this shareholding was
£47 million, and GSK also recognised a credit of £39 million in non-controlling interests representing Verily’s share of the net assets it
contributed.
Business disposals
GSK also made a number of small business disposals in the year for net cash consideration of £72 million. In addition, deferred consideration
receivable of £43 million was recognised.207
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
38. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Cash flows
Business Business
acquisitions disposals
£m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/received after purchase adjustments (24) 72
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 41 –
Cash inflow 17 72
In addition, GSK made cash investments of £11 million into associates and joint ventures.
2015
Business acquisitions
Novartis Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines businesses
The three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving the Consumer Healthcare, Vaccines and Oncology businesses
completed on 2 March 2015.
GSK and Novartis have contributed their respective Consumer Healthcare businesses into a Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture in a
non-cash transaction. GSK has an equity interest of 63.5% and majority control of the Joint Venture. In addition, GSK has acquired Novartis’
global Vaccines business (excluding influenza vaccines) for an initial cash consideration of $5.25 billion (£3.417 billion) with contingent
consideration representing subsequent potential milestone payments of up to $1.8 billion (£1.2 billion) arising on the achievement of specified
development targets and ongoing royalties based on the future sales performance of certain products, and so the total amount payable is
unlimited. The first milestone of $450 million (£300 million) was paid on 26 March 2015.
Other business acquisitions
In addition, GSK completed one smaller Vaccines business acquisition for cash consideration of £120 million, net of cash acquired, and the
fair value of existing investments of £15 million. This represented goodwill of £22 million and intangible assets of £124 million less other net
liabilities of £11 million.
The fair values of the assets acquired in business combinations, including goodwill, are set out in the table below.
Novartis
Consumer Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines
business business Other
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 6,003 2,680 124
Property, plant and equipment 249 434 1
Inventory 257 347 –
Trade and other receivables 400 162 2
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 304 283 19
Trade and other payables (402) (107) (3)
Deferred tax liabilities (1,154) (78) (26)
Other liabilities (165) (299) –
5,492 3,422 117
Non-controlling interest (2,150) (19) –
Goodwill 774 576 22
4,116 3,979 139
Consideration settled by shares in GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings 4,116 – –
Cash consideration paid after purchase adjustments – 3,461 124
Fair value of equity investment disposal – – 15
Contingent consideration – 594 –
Deferred tax on contingent consideration – (52) –
Loss on settlement of pre-existing relationships – (24) –
Total consideration 4,116 3,979 139208
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Acquisitions and disposals continued
The non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, calculated applying the full goodwill method, represents Novartis’
share of the net assets it contributed to the Joint Venture together with attributable goodwill.
The goodwill in the businesses acquired represents the potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired businesses with
GSK’s existing businesses together with the value of the workforce acquired. The majority of the goodwill recognised is not expected to be
deductible for tax purposes.
Total transaction costs recognised in 2014 and 2015 for the acquisitions from Novartis amounted to £102 million.
Between 2 March 2015 and 31 December 2015, turnover of £1,941 million arising from the Novartis Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines
businesses was included in Group turnover. If the businesses had been acquired at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group
turnover in 2015 would have been approximately £320 million higher. These businesses have been integrated into the Group’s existing
activities and it is not practical to identify the impact on the Group profit in the period.
Business disposals
Oncology
GSK has divested its marketed Oncology business, related R&D activities and rights to its AKT inhibitor and also granted commercialisation
partner rights for future oncology products to Novartis for consideration of $16 billion (£10,395 million) before purchase adjustments.
Other business disposals
GSK also made a number of small business disposals in the period for net cash consideration of £309 million. Profit on disposal of the
businesses has been determined as follows:
Oncology Other
£m £m
Cash consideration including currency forwards and purchase adjustments 10,060 309
Net assets sold:
Goodwill (497) (14)
Intangible assets (516) (107)
Property, plant and equipment – (25)
Inventory – (51)
Cash – (5)
Other net assets – (6)
(1,013) (208)
Loss on currency forwards booked in 2014 299 –
Disposal costs (118) (21)
Profit on disposal 9,228 80
Associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made cash investments of £16 million into associates and joint ventures. In addition, in March 2015, GSK sold half of its
shareholding in Aspen, representing 6.2% of the issued share capital of the company, for £571 million in cash. As a result of the sale, the
Group was no longer considered to have the ability to exert significant influence over Aspen and the Group’s remaining investment was
transferred from Investments in associates to Other investments.
£m
Cash consideration 571
Net book value of shares (143)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (30)
Transaction fees (7)
Other items (5)
Profit on disposal 386
Business Business Associates and
acquisitions disposals JV disposals Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/received after purchase adjustments (3,585) 10,369 571 7,355
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/(divested) 404 (5) – 399
Deferred cash proceeds – (38) – (38)
Contingent consideration paid (338) – – (338)
Transaction costs and other (22) (80) (7) (109)
Cash (outflow)/inflow (3,541) 10,246 564 7,269209
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
39. Contingent consideration liabilities
The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:
Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2015 1,684 – 40 1,724
Additions through business combinations – 594 – 594
Remeasurement through income statement 1,874 111 1 1,986
Cash payments: operating cash flows (121) – – (121)
Cash payments: investing activities (38) (300) – (338)
Other movements 10 – – 10
At 31 December 2015 3,409 405 41 3,855
Additions through business combinations 154 – 40 194
Remeasurement through income statement 2,162 152 (33) 2,281
Cash payments: operating cash flows (351) (5) (2) (358)
Cash payments: investing activities (66) (7) – (73)
Other movements (4) – 1 (3)
At 31 December 2016 5,304 545 47 5,896
Remeasurement through income statement 909 53 (1) 961
Cash payments: operating cash flows (587) (7) – (594)
Cash payments: investing activities (84) (7) – (91)
At 31 December 2017 5,542 584 46 6,172
Of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2017, £1,076 million (2016 – £561 million) is expected to be paid within one year.
The contingent consideration payable in respect of the Novartis Vaccines business included a sales milestone of $450 million which was
settled in January 2018.
The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the Novartis Vaccines business is expected to
be paid over a number of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present values, shown above. The Shionogi-
ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8.5% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liability is
discounted partly at 8% and partly at 9%.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is calculated based on the forecast sales performance of specified products,
principally dolutegravir, over the life of those products.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in key
inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration liabilities.
Shionogi- Novartis
ViiV Healthcare Vaccines
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 535 56
10% decrease in sales forecasts (535) (55)
1% increase in discount rate (228) (18)
1% decrease in discount rate 245 20
5% increase in probability of milestone success 6
5% decrease in probability of milestone success (6)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 329 17
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (284) (15)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 95 25
10 cent depreciation of Euro (80) (21)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 59.210
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Non-controlling interests
The Group has two subgroups that have material non-controlling interests, ViiV Healthcare Limited and its subsidiaries and GSK Consumer
Healthcare Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries. Summarised financial information in respect of the ViiV Healthcare group and GSK
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture is set out below:
ViiV Healthcare
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Turnover 4,269 3,527 2,330
Profit/(loss) after taxation 825 (1,249) (1,426)
Other comprehensive income 20 36 7
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 845 (1,213) (1,419)
2017 2016
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,736 3,064
Current assets 2,533 2,357
Total assets 5,269 5,421
Current liabilities (2,409) (1,977)
Non-current liabilities (8,011) (7,983)
Total liabilities (10,420) (9,960)
Net liabilities (5,151) (4,539)
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,132 1,750 1,097
Net cash outflow from investing activities (207) (326) (63)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,820) (1,023) (814)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts in the year 105 401 220
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related adjustments,
primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The profit after taxation of £825 million (2016 – loss after taxation of £1,249
million; 2015 – loss after taxation of £1,426 million) is stated after charging preferential dividends payable to GSK, Shionogi and Pfizer and
after a charge of £909 million (2016 – £2,186 million; 2015 – £1,874 million) for remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for
the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years.
The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s Consolidated statement of comprehensive income,
Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated balance sheet:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 187 (83) (143)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 316 152 163
Non-controlling interests in the Consolidated balance sheet (476) (353)211
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
40. Non-controlling interests continued
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Turnover 7,003 6,530 4,627
Profit/(loss) after taxation 1,211 660 (39)
Other comprehensive income (387) 1,640 72
Total comprehensive income 824 2,300 33
2017 2016
£m £m
Non-current assets 12,771 13,315
Current assets 3,282 3,996
Total assets 16,053 17,311
Current liabilities (2,675) (3,060)
Non-current liabilities (1,537) (2,062)
Total liabilities (4,212) (5,122)
Net assets 11,841 12,189
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 883 1,496 277
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 270 (537) (691)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,194) (980) (42)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts in the year (41) (21) (456)
The above financial information relates to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related
adjustments but after major restructuring charges.
The following amounts attributable to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture are included in GSK’s Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated balance sheet:
2017 2016 2015
£m £m £m
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 296 730 14
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 420 346 –
Non-controlling interests in the Consolidated balance sheet 3,631 3,755212
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
41. Commitments
2017 2016
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 5,254 7,199
Property, plant and equipment 584 496
Investments 107 166
Purchase commitments 346 52
Pensions 738 874
Other commitments 38 143
Interest on loans 8,510 9,410
Finance lease charges 12 3
15,589 18,343
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development or on
meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are achieved. The
amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. The decrease in intangible commitments in 2017 is attributable to amendments made to the
agreement with Adaptimmune Therapeutics plc and reduction in commitments to third parties such as Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
In 2016, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension
deficit identified at the 31 December 2014 actuarial funding valuation. A payment of £123 million is due in 2018 and each subsequent year up
to, and including 2023. The table above includes this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of
approximately £130 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are disclosed below. £117 million (2016 – £186 million) is provided against these
commitments on the Group’s balance sheet.
2017 2016
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 186 153
Rental payments due between one and two years 149 129
Rental payments due between two and three years 122 94
Rental payments due between three and four years 107 74
Rental payments due between four and five years 94 66
Rental payments due after five years 387 324
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 1,045 840213
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments to finance its operations Market risk
and derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from Interest rate risk management
these operations. These derivatives, principally comprising interest GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps, are used to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
to swap borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
Group purposes and to manage exposure to financial risks from of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. operating profit.
GSK does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes Foreign exchange risk management
and GSK’s Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external trade
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the flows are not normally hedged. Foreign currency transaction
risks arising from underlying business activities. exposures arising on internal trade flows are selectively hedged. The
Group’s objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
Capital management
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities
with local currency costs where possible. GSK’s internal trading
and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the capital
transactions are matched centrally and inter-company payment terms
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity.
are managed to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency cash
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of £13.2 flows can be hedged selectively including hedges of the foreign
billion (see Note 31, ‘Net debt’) and total equity, including that exchange risk arising from acquisitions and disposals of assets.
provided by non-controlling interests, of £3.5 billion (see Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or borrowing
‘Consolidated statement of changes in equity’ on page 160). requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling interests, contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
is £16.7 billion. currency.
Our long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A+ (stable In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the Group
outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) it is A2 seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal
(stable outlook). The Group’s short-term credit ratings are A-1 assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US
and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings can be swapped into other
currencies as required.
Liquidity risk management
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity sources that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated
using a range of facilities and to maintain broad access to financial as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major
markets. currencies are also used to reduce exposure to the Group’s
investment in overseas assets (see ‘Net investment hedges’
At 31 December 2017, GSK had £2.8 billion of borrowings
section of this note for further details).
repayable within one year and held £3.9 billion of cash and
cash equivalents and liquid investments of which £2.5 billion
was held centrally. GSK has access to short-term finance under
a $10 billion (£7.4 billion) US commercial paper programme;
$0.7 billion (£0.5 billion) was in issue at 31 December 2017
(2016 – $1.4 billion). GSK also has £1.9 billion five year committed
facilities and $2.5 billion (£1.9 billion) of 364 day committed facilities.
The five-year committed facilities were agreed in September 2015
and were extended by one year to 2021 in September 2016. The
364 day committed facilities were agreed in August 2017. These
facilities were undrawn at 31 December 2017. GSK considers
this level of committed facilities to be adequate, given current
liquidity requirements.
GSK has a £15 billion European Medium Term Note programme
and at 31 December 2017, £9.0 billion of notes were in issue under
this programme. The Group also had $9.7 billion (£7.2 billion) of
notes in issue at 31 December 2017 under a US shelf registration.
GSK’s borrowings mature at dates between 2018 and 2045.
The put options owned by minority interest partners in ViiV
Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare JV business are both
now exercisable. In reviewing liquidity requirements GSK considers
that sufficient financing options are available should the put options
be exercised.214
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Credit risk At 31 December 2017, £45 million of cash is categorised as held
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December with unrated or sub-investment grade rated counterparties (lower
2017 to be £9,988 million (31 December 2016 – £11,002 million) then BBB-/Baa3) of which £32 million is cash in transit. The
which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with the exception remaining exposure is concentrated in overseas banks used for local
of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity investments) which bear cash management or investment purposes, including £7 million in
equity risk rather than credit risk. See page 216 for details on the Nigeria held with United Bank for Africa, Zenith Bank and Stanbic
Group’s total financial assets. At 31 December 2017, GSK’s greatest IBTC Bank and First Bank of Nigeria and £2 million with BTV in
concentrations of credit risk were £0.5 billion with Citibank (A/A1) Austria. Of the £80 million of bank balances and deposits held with
and £0.5 billion with one US wholesaler (BBB+/Baa2) (2016 – BBB/Baa rated counterparties, £27 million was held with BBB-/
£0.9 billion with Citibank (A/A1)). Baa3 rated counterparties, including balances or deposits of
£17 million with HDFC Bank in India and £10 million with State
Treasury-related credit risk
Bank of India. These banks are used for local investment purposes.
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking
and investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these limits is
monitored daily.
GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing surplus
cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s strategy to
regionalise cash management and to concentrate cash centrally as
much as possible. The table below sets out the credit exposure to
counterparties by rating for liquid investments, cash and cash
equivalents and derivatives. The gross asset position on each
derivative contract is considered for the purpose of this table,
although, under ISDA agreements, the amount at risk is the net
position with each counterparty. Table (e) on page 220 sets out
the Group’s financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 423 1,167 80 45 1,715
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 1,715 – – – – 1,715
Liquidity funds 403 – – – – 403
Government securities – 77 – 1 – 78
3rd party financial derivatives – 26 42 – – 68
Total 2,118 526 1,209 81 45 3,979
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 542 1,560 388 93 2,583
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 2,248 – – – – 2,248
Liquidity funds 66 – – – – 66
Government securities – 85 – 4 – 89
3rd party financial derivatives – 70 86 – – 156
Total 2,314 697 1,646 392 93 5,142
Credit ratings are assigned by Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinions of the two rating agencies differ, GSK
assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source available, the ratings are
converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s using published conversion tables.215
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £2.5 billion at The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
31 December 2017, all available within three months. This includes the fair values:
£1.7 billion centrally managed cash held by ViiV Healthcare, a 78.3%
– Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying amount
owned subsidiary. The Group has invested centrally managed liquid
assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA rated US Treasury and Treasury – Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices or calculated
repo only money market funds and Aaa/AAA rated liquidity funds. based on observable inputs in the case of marketable securities;
based on principal amounts in the case of non-marketable
Wholesale and retail credit risk
securities because of their short repricing periods
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the
Group’s trade receivables balance. – Other investments – equity investments traded in an active market
determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid
In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group
price; other equity investments determined by reference to the
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition
current market value of similar instruments or by reference to the
to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the
discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets
three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 83% of the
sales of the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses in 2017. – Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
At 31 December 2017, the Group had trade receivables due from approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity
these three wholesalers totalling £1,265 million (2016 – £1,323 of these instruments
million). The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in – Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the case
respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them of European and US Medium term notes and other fixed rate
encounters financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely borrowings (a Level 1 fair value measurement); approximates to the
affect the Group’s financial results. carrying amount in the case of floating rate bank loans and other
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these loans
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial information – Contingent consideration for business acquisitions – based on
and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal present values of expected future cash flows
risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review of credit limits.
However, the Group believes there is no further credit risk provision – Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, swaps
required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts and options – based on the present value of contractual cash
(see Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’). flows or option valuation models using market sourced data
(exchange rates or interest rates) at the balance sheet date
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The table on page 216 presents the carrying amounts and the fair – Receivables and payables, including put options – approximates
values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 December to the carrying amount
2017 and 31 December 2016. – Company-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at surrender value
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a – Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
measurement date.
At 31 December 2017, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)
Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £400 million (2016
– £286 million) and a fair value of £882 million (2016 – £667 million)
based on quoted market price. The shares are held by the ESOP
Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under
employee incentive schemes. In 2017, the carrying value, which is
the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has been
recognised as a deduction from other reserves. At 31 December
2017, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £5,800 million
(2016 – £6,451 million) which has been deducted from
retained earnings.216
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2017 2016
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments (Government bonds) a 78 78 89 89
Other investments a 918 918 985 985
Loans and receivables:
Cash and cash equivalents 3,833 3,833 4,897 4,897
Trade and other receivables and Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 b 5,495 5,495 5,499 5,499
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other receivables and Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 a,b 506 506 361 361
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e 5 5 23 23
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e 71 71 133 133
Total financial assets 10,906 10,906 11,987 11,987
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (4,315) (4,405) (3,189) (3,335)
– other bonds (11,894) (14,743) (14,111) (16,996)
– bank loans and overdrafts (236) (236) (332) (332)
– commercial paper (529) (529) (1,094) (1,094)
– other borrowings (49) (49) – –
Total borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases f (17,023) (19,962) (18,726) (21,757)
Obligations under finance leases (66) (66) (64) (64)
Total borrowings (17,089) (20,028) (18,790) (21,821)
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 c (20,325) (20,325) (18,713) (18,713)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Contingent consideration liabilities a,c (6,172) (6,172) (5,896) (5,896)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e (26) (26) (92) (92)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e (48) (48) (102) (102)
Total financial liabilities (43,660) (46,599) (43,593) (46,624)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (32,754) (35,693) (31,606) (34,637)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 215. Trade and other
receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities and Contingent consideration
liabilities are reconciled to the relevant Notes on page 218.217
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available, the asset
or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable market data. If one or
more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified as Level 3. Other
investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities with which the Group has entered into
research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 77 1 – 78
Other investments 535 – 383 918
Other non-current assets – – 38 38
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 382 44 426
Trade and other receivables – – 42 42
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 5 – 5
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 62 9 71
612 450 516 1,578
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (6,172) (6,172)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (26) – (26)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (47) (1) (48)
– (73) (6,173) (6,246)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 84 5 – 89
Other investments 580 – 405 985
Other non-current assets – – 6 6
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 355 – 355
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 23 – 23
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 133 – 133
664 516 411 1,591
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (5,896) (5,896)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (92) – (92)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (101) (1) (102)
– (193) (5,897) (6,090)
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2017 2016
£m £m
At 1 January (5,486) (3,582)
Net losses recognised in the income statement (970) (2,283)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 22 29
Contingent consideration for businesses divested/acquired during the year 80 (194)
Payment of contingent consideration liabilities 685 431
Additions 117 81
Disposals (52) (15)
Transfers from Level 3 (24) (11)
Exchange (29) 58
At 31 December (5,657) (5,486)218
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The net losses of £970 million (2016 – £2,283 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in the income
statement were all attributable to financial instruments which were held at the end of the year. Losses of £971 million (2016 – £2,283 million)
were reported in Other operating income and income of £1 million (2016 – £nil) was recorded in Finance income. £909 million (2016 –
£2,162 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare
joint venture and £53 million (2016 – £152 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable on the acquisition in
2015 of the Novartis Vaccines business. Net gains of £22 million (2016 – £29 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments reported in
Other comprehensive income as Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments included net losses of £6 million (2016 – net gains of
£21 million) in respect of financial instruments held at the end of the year.
Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December included £5,542 million (2016 – £5,304 million) in respect
of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is
expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products and movements in certain
foreign currencies. They also included £584 million (2016 – £545 million) in respect of contingent consideration for the acquisition in 2015
of the Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future
performance of specified products, the achievement of certain milestone targets and movements in certain foreign currencies. Sensitivity
analysis on these balances is provided in Note 39, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall within
the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Financial instruments
within the Other non-current assets balance include company-owned life insurance policies. Non-financial instruments include tax
receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2017 2016
At fair value Non- At fair value Non-
through Loans and Financial financial through Loans and Financial financial
profit or loss receivables instruments instruments Total profit or loss receivables instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 24) 42 5,148 5,190 810 6,000 – 5,135 5,135 891 6,026
Other non-current assets
(Note 22) 464 347 811 602 1,413 361 364 725 474 1,199
506 5,495 6,001 1,412 7,413 361 5,499 5,860 1,365 7,225
The following table shows the ageing of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has
been made:
2017 2016
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 142 137
Past due by 31–90 days 70 178
Past due by 91–180 days 64 55
Past due by 181–365 days 27 53
Past due by more than 365 days 108 98
411 521
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities and Contingent consideration liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities and
Contingent consideration liabilities which fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are
predominantly non-interest bearing. Accrued wages and salaries are included within financial liabilities. Non-financial instruments includes
payments on account, tax and social security payables and provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or
another financial asset, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2017 2016
At fair value At fair value
through Other Financial Non-financial through Other Financial Non-financial
profit or loss liabilities instruments instruments Total profit or loss liabilities instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 27) – (20,129) (20,129) (841) (20,970) – (11,041) (11,041) (923) (11,964)
Other provisions
(Note 29) – (117) (117) (1,148) (1,265) – (113) (113) (1,387) (1,500)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 30) – (79) (79) (902) (981) – (7,559) (7,559) (886) (8,445)
Contingent consideration
liabilities (Note 39) (6,172) – (6,172) – (6,172) (5,896) – (5,896) – (5,896)
(6,172) (20,325) (26,497) (2,891) (29,388) (5,896) (18,713) (24,609) (3,196) (27,805)219
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the fair values of derivatives held by GSK. All the derivative liabilities and £68 million (2016 – £156 million) of the
derivative assets have a maturity of less than one year.
2017 2016
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £6,333 million (2016 – £5,362 million)) 5 (25) 18 (92)
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £38 million (2016 – £170 million)) – (1) 5 –
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss 5 (26) 23 (92)
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £14,449 million (2016 – £14,943 million)) 62 (47) 133 (99)
Embedded and other derivatives 9 (1) – (3)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 71 (48) 133 (102)
Total derivative instruments 76 (74) 156 (194)
Foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading under IAS 39
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance sheet date. The Group’s
foreign exchange contracts are for periods of 12 months or less. At 31 December 2017, the Group held outstanding foreign exchange
contracts with a net asset fair value of £15 million (£62 million asset less £47 million liability). At 31 December 2016, the fair value was
£34 million net asset (£133 million asset less £99 million liability).
The overall decrease in the net asset fair value has been due to the weakening of Sterling against the Euro in 2017 and the strengthening of
Sterling against the US Dollar which has impacted on the portion of the hedging portfolio that is not in a designated accounting hedge. Fair
value movements are taken to the income statement in the period to offset the exchange gains and losses on the related underlying balances.
Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2017, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.
Net investment hedges
During the year, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency translation
risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro) foreign operations as shown in the table above.
The carrying value of bonds on page 216 includes £4,315 million (2016 – £3,189 million) that are designated as hedging instruments in net
investment hedges.
Cash flow hedges
During 2017, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as cash flow hedges. These are
hedging the foreign exchange exposure arising on Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European
Medium Term Note programme and a number of highly probable forecast transactions denominated in US Dollars.
In addition, the Group carries a balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds
issued in prior years. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.220
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset
the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. There are
also arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to be offset in certain circumstances, such
as bankruptcy or the termination of a contract.
The following tables set out the financial assets and liabilities that are offset, or subject to enforceable master netting arrangements and other
similar agreements but not offset, as at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016. The column ‘Net amount’ shows the impact on the
Group’s balance sheet if all offset rights were exercised.
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset amount
At 31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 5,191 (1) 5,190 (31) 5,159
Derivative financial instruments 76 – 76 (64) 12
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (20,130) 1 (20,129) 31 (20,098)
Derivative financial instruments (74) – (74) 64 (10)
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset balance
At 31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 5,136 (1) 5,135 (29) 5,106
Derivative financial instruments 156 – 156 (117) 39
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (11,042) 1 (11,041) 29 (11,012)
Derivative financial instruments (194) – (194) 117 (77)
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate
to derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each party has the option to settle
amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. As there is presently not a legally enforceable right of offset, these amounts
have not been offset in the balance sheet, but have been presented separately in the table above.221
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis of fixed rate
debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as
all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2017 2016
Total
debt Total
£m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (2,802) (4,106)
Between one and two years (1,340) (2,216)
Between two and three years (1,076) (1,277)
Between three and four years (16) –
Between four and five years (1,475) –
Between five and ten years (3,664) (4,082)
Greater than ten years (6,650) (7,045)
Total (17,023) (18,726)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (16,209) (17,342)
Floating rate interest (765) (1,381)
Total interest bearing (16,974) (18,723)
Non-interest bearing (49) (3)
(17,023) (18,726)
(g) Sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrate the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of hypothetical market movements in foreign
exchange and interest rates in relation to the Group’s financial instruments. The range of variables chosen for the sensitivity analysis reflects
management’s view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The Group operates internationally and is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in US Dollar,
Euro and Japanese Yen. Foreign exchange risk arises from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not in the functional
currency of the entity that holds them. Based on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December, a weakening and
strengthening of Sterling against these currencies, with all other variables held constant, is illustrated in the tables below. The tables exclude
financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign exchange risk where this risk is fully hedged with another financial instrument.
2017 2016
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 76 77
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (5) 18
10 yen appreciation of the Yen 9 1
2017 2016
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (66) (66)
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 4 (16)
10 yen depreciation of the Yen (8) (1)222
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments hedging
the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note programme and a number
of highly probable forecast transactions denominated in US Dollar.
2017 2016
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 1 11
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (1,028) (795)
2017 2016
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (1) (10)
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 861 670
The tables below present the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening and strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency based on the
composition of net debt as shown in Note 31 adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net debt but affect
future foreign currency cash flows.
2017 2016
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (637) (746)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro 197 190
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (4) (11)
2017 2016
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 549 634
10 cent depreciation of the Euro (165) (160)
10 yen depreciation of the Yen 4 10
Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will affect future
cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the Group’s net
interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.
The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US Dollar and Euro floating
rate financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate financial assets and liabilities were to have increased by 1%
(100 basis points), and assuming other variables had remained constant, it is estimated that the Group’s finance income for 2017 would have
increased by approximately £5 million (2016 – £3 million increase). A 1% (100 basis points) movement in interest rates is not deemed to
have a material effect on equity.
2017 2016
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates 24 3
1% (100 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates (24) (3)
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates 5 3223
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative
financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. The Group did not use interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate risk. For the purpose of
this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings except for obligations under finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held
at 31 December without taking account of future issuance. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance
sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. Contractual cash flows in respect of operating
lease vacant space provisions are excluded from the table below as they are included in the Commitments under non-cancellable operating
leases table in Note 41, ‘Commitments’.
Obligations Finance charge on Trade payables and
Interest on under finance obligations under other liabilities not
Debt debt leases finance leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (2,802) (555) (23) (2) (21,521) (24,903)
Between one and two years (1,344) (497) (27) (2) (853) (2,723)
Between two and three years (1,078) (488) (8) (1) (813) (2,388)
Between three and four years (16) (488) (2) (1) (784) (1,291)
Between four and five years (1,483) (468) (1) (1) (752) (2,705)
Between five and ten years (3,694) (2,018) (5) (5) (3,609) (9,331)
Greater than ten years (6,720) (3,996) – – (1,471) (12,187)
Gross contractual cash flows (17,137) (8,510) (66) (12) (29,803) (55,528)
Finance charge on Trade payables and
Obligations obligations other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (4,108) (705) (23) (2) (11,621) (16,459)
Between one and two years (2,218) (566) (22) (1) (8,784) (11,591)
Between two and three years (1,282) (503) (12) – (961) (2,758)
Between three and four years – (496) (7) – (786) (1,289)
Between four and five years – (496) – – (705) (1,201)
Between five and ten years (4,117) (2,122) – – (3,474) (9,713)
Greater than ten years (7,124) (4,522) – – (3,135) (14,781)
Gross contractual cash flows (18,849) (9,410) (64) (3) (29,466) (57,792)
The increase in contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities due in less than one year of £8.4 billion and the decrease in cash
flows due between one and two years of £8.9 billion principally reflect the move of the Consumer Healthcare put option into amounts due in
less than one year. This option relates to the ability of Novartis to put its shares in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture to GSK at certain
points commencing on 2 March 2018 with payment likely to be due several months after exercise. See Note 27 ‘Trade and other payables’
for further information on the Consumer Healthcare put option.
Anticipated contractual cash flows for the repayment of debt and debt interest have decreased by £2.6 billion over the year due to a
reduction in the issuance of commercial paper and favourable exchange rate movements on US Dollar denominated debt.
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments excluding embedded
derivatives and equity options, which are not material, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using
spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign exchange contracts are presented for the purpose of this table although, in
practice, the Group uses standard settlement arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
The amounts receivable and payable in less than one year have decreased compared with 31 December 2016 as a result of reduced
hedging of the US commercial paper programme.
2017 2016
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year 20,319 (20,326) 21,266 (21,303)
Between one and two years – – 20 (20)
Gross contractual cash flows 20,319 (20,326) 21,286 (21,323)224
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Employee share schemes
GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares
or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan, whereby awards are granted to
employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by the Group of specified performance
targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options to employees as the cost of the schemes more
readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also operates savings related share option schemes, whereby
options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc at a discounted price.
Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three year vesting or performance period. Awards are normally
granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc but in some circumstances may be settled in cash. Grants under
savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In accordance with UK practice, the majority of
options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling at the date of grant.
Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.
The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2017 was £347 million (2016 – £338 million; 2015 – £349 million). Of this amount,
£276 million (2016 – £271 million; 2015 – £307 million) arose from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’ for further details.
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to three years
and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of
grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 4.8% (2016 – 4.5%; 2015 – 5.7%) over the duration of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2015 32,912 21,227
Awards granted 13,019 £11.57 7,198 $35.66
Awards exercised (11,476) (8,878)
Awards cancelled (1,878) (2,027)
At 31 December 2015 32,577 17,520
Awards granted 12,983 £14.97 6,589 $39.18
Awards exercised (11,198) (6,214)
Awards cancelled (1,507) (812)
At 31 December 2016 32,855 17,083
Awards granted 13,018 £13.68 6,610 $35.63
Awards exercised (10,596) (5,674)
Awards cancelled (1,352) (627)
At 31 December 2017 33,925 17,392
Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of each award
that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested during the same period.
For awards granted from 2015, the performance conditions are based on three equally weighted measures over a three year performance
period. These are adjusted free cash flow, TSR and R&D new product performance.
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements, this is
adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
During 2017, awards were made of 3.9 million shares at a weighted fair value of £11.09 and 1.0 million ADS at a weighted fair value of
$32.85. At 31 December 2017, there were outstanding awards over 12.9 million shares and 3.2 million ADS.225
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
43. Employee share schemes continued
Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing savings-related options to arrive at the share based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing model has
been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
2017 Grant 2016 Grant 2015 Grant
Risk-free interest rate 0.54% 0.32% 0.88%
Dividend yield 5.9% 4.9% 6.5%
Volatility 23% 23% 21%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount) £10.86 £12.95 £10.14
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2017 3,600 £11.86 3,277 $39.62 6,852 £10.77
Range of exercise prices on options outstanding
at year end £11.47 – £12.21 $33.42 – $48.66 £10.13 – £12.95
Weighted average market price on exercise
during year £16.07 $41.50 £14.28
Weighted average remaining contractual life 1.4 years 1.0 years 2.1 years
Options over 2.0 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted average fair value
of £2.08. At 31 December 2017, 6.7 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable. All of the other share options and ADS
options are currently exercisable and all will expire if not exercised on or before 22 July 2020.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards
made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts purchase
shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. In 2017, Treasury shares with a carrying value of £610 million
were purchased by the US ESOP Trust to satisfy future awards. The costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and amortised down to the value of proceeds, if any, receivable from
employees on exercise by a transfer to retained earnings. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the
ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2017 2016
Number of shares (000) 66,558 42,571
£m £m
Nominal value 17 11
Carrying value 399 285
Market value 880 665
Shares held for share option schemes 2017 2016
Number of shares (000) 139 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 2 2226
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2017. The equity share
capital of these entities is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are
incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
England US
Glaxo Group Limited Block Drug Company, Inc. (63.5%)
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Corixa Corporation
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. (55.9%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited GlaxoSmithKline LLC
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited * GSK Consumer Health, Inc. (formerly Novartis Consumer Health, Inc.) (63.5%)
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited S.R. One, Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited * Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited ViiV Healthcare Company (78.3%)
Setfirst Limited
SmithKline Beecham Limited
ViiV Healthcare Limited (78.3%)
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited (78.3%)
Europe Others
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. (Argentina)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd (Australia)
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. (France) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) (63.5%)
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS (France) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil)
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline (France) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. (Canada) (63.5%)
ViiV Healthcare SAS (France) (78.3%) GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada)
(Germany) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Limited (China (Hong Kong))
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd (China) (34.9%)
GSK Vaccines GmbH (Germany) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (India) (72.5%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. (Italy) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India) (75%)
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. (Japan) (63.5%)
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. (Italy) GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan)
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. (Netherlands) ViiV Healthcare Kabushiki Kaisha (Japan) (78.3%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. (Poland) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan) (82.6%)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. (Poland) Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd. (Singapore)
GSK Services Sp z o.o. (Poland) GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (Republic of Korea)
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of Ireland) (i) GlaxoSmithKline llaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (Turkey)
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO (Russia) (63.5%)
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain)
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. (Spain) (78.3%)
Novartis Consumer Health S.A. (Switzerland) (63.5%)
(i) E xempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions noted
in Section 357 of that Act. Further subsidiaries, as disclosed on pages 276 to 286, are exempt from these provisions as they are also
consolidated in the group financial statements.
* Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of GlaxoSmithKline
Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and GlaxoSmithKline LLC, is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company, and the company
has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and
GlaxoSmithKline LLC.
See pages 276 to 286 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these financial
statements.227
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
45. Legal proceedings
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative Intellectual property
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity and
anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related private enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products or
litigation. The most significant of these matters, other than tax processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those
matters, are described below. The Group makes provision for these patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent
proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, protection for the product at issue. The consequences of any such
‘Accounting principles and policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that product and
could materially affect future results of operations for the Group.
The Group may become involved in significant legal proceedings in
respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the Flovent HFA
expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate On 15 February 2017, the Group received a Paragraph IV
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate certification from Teva for Flovent HFA. This was the first Paragraph
disclosures about such cases would be included in this note, IV certification the Group had received from a generic
but no provision would be made for the cases. pharmaceutical company seeking to make an AB rated version of
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, Flovent HFA. Three patents are at issue. Teva alleged that its generic
other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group is version of Flovent did not infringe two patents directed to actuation
unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect at indicators (metered dose) listed in the Orange Book. Teva also
this stage. The Group does not believe that information about the alleged that U.S. Patent No. 6,743, 413 (‘413 patent’) which claims a
amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful method of treatment with a formulation containing an active
with respect to those legal proceedings. This is due to a number of medication and a propellant known as 134a, substantially free of
factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the surfactant, and its use in the hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) metered dose
entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories inhalers for Flovent is not valid. After reviewing the Teva complaint,
of liability, damages and governing law. the Group did not sue Teva under the ‘413 patent and asked the FDA
to remove the ‘413 patent from the Orange Book. Teva produced
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are
evidence showing that it did not infringe the dose counter patents.
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions
On 20 June 2017, the Group withdrew the case against Teva.
are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice,
where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable Bexsero/Men B vaccines
estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute. For certain Following its acquisition of the Novartis Vaccines business, the
product liability claims, the Group will make a provision where there Group took over patent litigation originally filed by Novartis against
is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) in the UK, Italy and the United States related to
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required meningococcal B (Men B) vaccines. In various cases, Novartis had
to cover unasserted claims. At 31 December 2017, the Group’s alleged that European patents owned by Pfizer were not infringed by
aggregate provision for legal and other disputes (not including tax the Group’s vaccine, Bexsero and were invalid. Novartis had also
matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was £186 million. The filed suit against Pfizer for patent infringement, alleging that Pfizer’s
ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts provided sale of its vaccine, Trumenba, infringes Novartis’ patents related to
and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, Men B vaccines. Pfizer had filed suit against the Group in the UK
investigations and possible settlement negotiations. seeking to invalidate six UK patents owned by the Group that have
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore, there relevance to Trumenba and in Canada for infringement of a patent
can be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of covering Trumenba. On 24 April 2017, the Group and Pfizer entered
any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the into a confidential global settlement resolving all matters that permits
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial each company to manufacture and sell their respective Men B
statements. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse vaccines.
impact on the results of operations of the Group in the reporting
period in which the judgements are incurred or the settlements
entered into.228
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Legal proceedings continued
Dolutegravir/Tivicay/Triumeq DOC Generici filed an action in September 2016 in the Court of
In September and October, 2017, ViiV Healthcare received patent Rome seeking a declaration that the Italian SPC covering Kivexa
challenge letters under the Hatch-Waxman Act from Lupin, Mylan, was invalid because it is based upon the invalid lamivudine and
Cipla and Dr. Reddy’s Labs for Triumeq, and from Cipla, Dr. Reddy’s, abacavir combination patent. ViiV Healthcare has counterclaimed for
Apotex and Sandoz for Tivicay and Triumeq. ViiV Healthcare lists two infringement of the Italian SPC. The trial in this action is to be heard
patents for dolutegravir, the active ingredient in Tivicay and one of the in Q3 2018.
active ingredients in Triumeq, in the FDA Orange Book. One patent,
In June 2017, Biogaran commenced proceedings in France seeking
covering the molecule dolutegravir, expires on 5 October 2027. A
revocation of the French SPC covering Kivexa. No trial date has been
second patent, claiming a certain crystal form of dolutegravir, expires
set for this action.
on 8 December 2029. All the letters challenged only the patent for
the crystal form. Some generic companies alleged that the crystal In Portugal, ViiV Healthcare initiated arbitration proceedings against
form patent is not valid. Others challenged validity and asserted that Farmoz under the SPC covering Kivexa. Farmoz had filed for
their proposed product would not infringe the crystal form patent. marketing approval for a generic version of Kivexa. No arbitration
On 7 February 2017, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement suits date has yet been scheduled in this action.
against all the generic companies in the US District Court for the In February 2017, Kyowa Pharmaceuticals filed a nullity action
District of Delaware. Additionally, ViiV Healthcare also filed suit relating to Kivexa in Japan. Oral hearing of the trial was held at the
against certain of the generic companies in the US District Court for Japan Patent Office on 30 January 2018. The decision of the Japan
the District of New Jersey, and the US District Court for the District Patent Office is expected in 2018.
of West Virginia. No trial date has yet been set.
Lexiva
On 7 February 2018, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement
The US patent covering Lexiva expired on 24 December 2017 and
litigation against Gilead Sciences Inc. (Gilead) over bictegravir in
the product has paediatric exclusivity until 24 June 2018. Pursuant to
the US District Court for the District of Delaware (US Patent No.
a settlement of litigation and confidential licence agreement, Mylan is
8,129,385) and the Canadian Federal Court (Canadian Patent No.
presently selling a generic version of Lexiva in the US.
2,606,282). ViiV Healthcare alleges that Gilead’s triple combination
HIV drug containing the HIV integrase inhibitor bictegravir infringes Product liability
ViiV Healthcare’s patent covering dolutegravir and other compounds Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development
that include dolutegravir’s unique chemical scaffold. In both the US of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of products
and Canada, ViiV Healthcare seeks financial redress rather than for use by humans following approval by regulatory bodies.
injunctive relief. No trial date has yet been set.
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines are
Kivexa introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues may
Between Q1 2017 and Q1 2018, ViiV Healthcare reached become, or be claimed by some to be, evident. The Group is
confidential agreements with each of Vale Pharmaceuticals, Lupin, currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits related
Sandoz, STADA and Zentiva to settle various challenges to the to the Group’s Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
validity of the Supplementary Protection Certificate (‘SPC’) for the products. The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the
patent covering the combination of lamivudine and abacavir for expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category
Kivexa and certain counterclaims brought by ViiV Healthcare for and has included a provision, as appropriate, for the matters below
infringement of that SPC. These settlements brought an end to in the provision for legal and other disputes. Matters for which the
litigation and arbitration proceedings between ViiV Healthcare and Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other
Lupin in Germany and Portugal, between ViiV Healthcare and provisions.
STADA in Germany and Italy, between ViiV Healthcare and Sandoz
in Austria, Germany, Portugal, Spain and Sweden, between
ViiV Healthcare and Vale Pharmaceuticals in Portugal, and between
ViiV Healthcare and Zentiva in Portugal.229
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
45. Legal proceedings continued
Avandia Seroxat/Paxil and Paxil CR
The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging that
of individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries. Most of
of Avandia. Economic loss actions have also been filed seeking these lawsuits contain one or more of the following allegations: (i)
restitution and penalties under consumer protection and other laws. that use of Paxil during pregnancy caused congenital malformations,
The federal cases filed against the Group are part of a multi-district persistent pulmonary hypertension or autism; (ii) that Paxil treatment
litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern caused patients to commit suicidal or violent acts; and (iii) that the
District of Pennsylvania (the ‘MDL Court’). Cases have also been Group failed to warn that patients could experience certain
filed in a number of state courts. In addition, the County of Santa symptoms on discontinuing Paxil treatment.
Clara, California, has brought an action on behalf of California
– Pregnancy
residents which is pending in the MDL Court, alleging violations of
The Group has reached agreements to settle the majority of the US
California’s False Advertising Act and seeking restitution, damages,
claims relating to the use of Paxil during pregnancy as of February
and civil penalties.
2018, but a number of claims related to use during pregnancy are
As of February 2018, there are five remaining personal injury cases still pending in various courts in the US. Of these remaining lawsuits,
on appeal from summary judgement decisions in favour of the Group there are three cases still pending in state court in California and one
(one in federal court in Pennsylvania and four in California state in federal court in California. There is one case in state court in
court). Kentucky, one in state court in Oklahoma, and one lawsuit joining the
claims of eight plaintiffs in state court in Illinois. Other matters have
There were four purported class actions in the US seeking economic
been dismissed without payment.
damages on behalf of third party payers asserting claims under the
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and The Singh action in Alberta, Canada, a proposed national class
consumer protection laws. Two plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their action, seeks to certify a class relating to birth defects generally.
actions. On 7 December 2017, the MDL Court granted the Group’s The Group is awaiting a hearing on the motion in Singh to certify
motion for summary judgement on the two remaining plaintiffs’ the case as a class action. Another Canadian class action, Jensen,
claims. Plaintiffs have filed an appeal of the decision in the US alleging claims of Paxil (and other SSRI) use and autism was filed in
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and a briefing schedule Saskatchewan in January 2017. On 27 March 2017, court approval
has been set. was received for the settlement of Bartram, a third class action suit
in British Columbia.
In the Santa Clara County action, the Group filed a motion for
summary judgement on the basis of pre-emption and also is – Acts of violence
seeking partial summary judgement on the County’s restitution As of February 2018, there were six pending claims or cases
claim. On 7 December 2017, the MDL Court granted the Group’s concerning allegations that patients who took paroxetine or Paxil
motion. The County’s claims for civil penalties remain pending committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts of violence: five
before the MDL Court. claims or cases are in the US and one case is in Canada. One
of the US cases, Dolin, involving the suicide of a man who allegedly
There are 13 purported class actions in Canada, two of which are
took generic paroxetine manufactured by Mylan, resulted in a
active. In the two active cases, class certification hearings were
$3 million verdict for the plaintiff. The Group has appealed the
held. In the Ontario action, the proceedings were adjourned. On
verdict to the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
7 December 2017, the Nova Scotia court issued an Order certifying
a nationwide class of all users of Avandia. The Group has filed an
appeal of that class certification decision.230
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Legal proceedings continued
– Discontinuation SEC/DOJ and SFO Anti-corruption enquiries
In the UK, a long-pending group action alleges that Seroxat caused On 27 May 2014, the UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) began a formal
severe discontinuation symptoms. In 2010, the Legal Services criminal investigation into the Group’s commercial operations in a
Commission (“LSC”) withdrew public funding from hundreds of number of countries, including China. The Group is co-operating
claimants, causing termination of most claims. In 2015, the Legal with and responding to these requests. The SFO inquiry followed
Aid Agency (formerly the LSC) discharged the public funding investigations initiated by China’s Ministry of Public Security in June
certificate following a 2013 recommendation of its Special Cases 2013 (the “China Investigations”) which resulted in a ruling in 2014
Review Panel that these cases have poor prospects of success. that, according to Chinese law, GSK China Investment Co. Ltd.
However, more recently, Fortitude Law was engaged with the (“GSKCI”) had offered money or property to non-government
purpose of resurrecting the Seroxat group action, and obtained personnel in order to obtain improper commercial gains and GSKCI
third-party funding for the experts and the 103 remaining claimants. being found guilty of bribing non-government personnel.
The Group asked the court to require the third-party funder to
On 30 September 2016, the Group reached a global resolution with
provide security for the litigation costs in the event plaintiffs lose.
the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regarding the
On 8 December 2017, the High Court ruled in favour of the Group
SEC’s investigation under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
on its application for an order that the claimants’ litigation funder
(FCPA) into the Group’s commercial practices in countries outside of
give security for costs for a sum in excess of the total funding it had
the US, including China. As part of the resolution, the Group agreed
committed to the case. The trial of the action is scheduled to
to pay a civil penalty of $20 million to the US Government. The US
commence in May 2019.
Department of Justice (DOJ) confirmed that it had concluded its
Zofran investigation into the Group’s commercial practices and would take
Plaintiffs allege that their children suffered birth defects as a result no action against the Group. As part of the resolution with the SEC,
of the mothers’ ingestion of Zofran and/or generic ondansetron for the Group agreed to certain undertakings, including a period of
pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting. Plaintiffs assert that the self-monitoring and reporting. The Group’s obligations under that
Group sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women, failed resolution continue through 30 September 2018.
to warn of the risks, and illegally marketed Zofran “off-label” for use In the course of its current inquiry, the SFO has requested additional
by pregnant women. As of February 2018, the Group is a defendant information from the Group regarding third party advisers engaged
in 420 personal injury lawsuits in the US. 406 of the cases are part by the company in the course of the China Investigations. The SEC
of a multi-district litigation proceeding (MDL) in the District of and DOJ are also investigating these matters following the Group’s
Massachusetts. reporting of the SFO’s inquiries. The Group is co-operating and
The MDL cases are in discovery. The MDL continues with monthly responding to these requests.
status conferences where issues such as the sufficiency of the The Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected
pleadings and the scope of discovery will be addressed. The Group financial effect of these investigations, and no provision has been
continues to seek the dismissal of individual cases as appropriate. made for them.
The Brown case pending in Oregon is in discovery and is scheduled
US Vaccines subpoena
for trial in October 2018. The remaining nine state court cases in
On 25 February 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US
the US, eight of which are in California, are still in their early days.
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting
The Group is also a defendant in four proposed class actions in
documents relating to the Group’s Vaccines business. The Group is
Canada. There has been no significant activity in 2017 in the
responding to the subpoena. The Group is unable to make a reliable
Canadian class actions.
estimate of the expected financial effect of this matter, and no
Sales and marketing and regulation provision has been made for it.
The Group’s marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical
and Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental US subpoena relating to Imitrex and Amerge
investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under various On 7 March 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US
theories of law. The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting
of the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this documents relating to the Group’s US contracts for Imitrex and
category, and has included a provision for such matters in the Amerge. The Group has completed its response to the subpoena.
provision for legal and other disputes, except as noted below. The Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected
financial effect of this matter, and no provision has been made for it.
Matters for which the Group has made a provision are also noted
in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.231
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
45. Legal proceedings continued
Average wholesale price Lamictal
The Attorney General in Illinois filed suit against the Group and a Purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers filed suit in the
number of other pharmaceutical companies claiming damages and US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the
restitution due to average wholesale price (AWP) and/or wholesale Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay
acquisition cost (WAC) price reporting for pharmaceutical products generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the
covered by the state’s Medicaid programmes. The case alleges that purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive reverse
the Group reported or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC payment settlement to resolve patent infringement litigation. A
prices, which, in turn, allegedly caused the state Medicaid agency to separate count accuses the Group of monopolising the market.
reimburse providers more money for covered medicines than the
On 26 June 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial court’s
agency intended. The state has sought recovery on behalf of itself as
decision to dismiss the case and remanded the action back to the
payer and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers. The case is
trial court. On 18 May 2016, the trial court denied the indirect
ongoing, and no trial date has yet been set as to the Group.
purchaser class plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration. As a result, the
Cidra third-party payer litigation indirect purchaser class representatives have agreed to a settlement
On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers filed suit to exit the case and resolve their remaining claims. Terms of the
against the Group in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania County Court settlement are confidential. The case will continue to move forward
of Common Pleas seeking compensation for reimbursements they with document production and witness depositions with regard to
made for medicines manufactured at the Group’s former Cidra plant the claims of the direct purchasers.
in Puerto Rico. These insurers claim that the Group knowingly and
Wellbutrin XL
illegally marketed and sold adulterated drugs manufactured under
Plaintiffs claimed anti-trust injury related to allegedly sham patent
conditions non-compliant with cGMP (current good manufacturing
litigation filed by Biovail against generic companies pursuing ANDAs
practices) and that they, as third-party insurers, were unlawfully
for generic Wellbutrin XL. Plaintiffs alleged that a conspiracy to delay
induced to pay for them. The suit alleges both US federal and various
generic approval existed between Biovail and the Group, but the US
state law causes of action. The Court denied the Group’s motion to
District Court granted summary judgement in favour of the Group on
dismiss and discovery is scheduled to be completed in 2018, with
those claims. The sole remaining claims in the matter relate to
the case to be scheduled for trial sometime in late 2018.
plaintiffs’ allegations that the Group entered into an anti-competitive
Anti-trust/competition reverse payment settlement to resolve the patent infringement
Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been brought litigation. The District Court granted summary judgement in favour of
against the Group alleging violation of competition or anti-trust laws. the Group on all claims. On 9 August 2017, the US Court of Appeals
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected for the Third Circuit Court affirmed the trial court’s dismissal of
financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and has plaintiffs’ case on summary judgement. On 31 August 2017, plaintiffs
included a provision for such matters in the provision for legal and filed a motion for a rehearing en banc before the Third Circuit which
other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which the Group was denied on 20 September 2017. Plaintiffs did not file a petition for
has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. certiorari asking the United States Supreme Court to review the
decision, so the dismissal of the action is now final.
UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation
Commercial and corporate
On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets Authority
(CMA) issued a decision fining the Group and two other The Group is a defendant in certain cases which allege violation
pharmaceutical companies for infringement of the Competition of US federal securities and ERISA laws. The Group has been able
Act. The CMA imposed a fine of £37.6 million on the Group, as to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect of the
well as fines totaling £7.4 million against the other companies. This matters discussed in this category and has included a provision for
relates to agreements to settle patent disputes between the Group such matters in the provision for legal and other disputes. Matters for
and potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations, entered which the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29,
between 2001 and 2003. The Group terminated the agreements at ‘Other provisions’.
issue in 2004. The Group believes it has strong grounds for its
appeal of the CMA’s finding to the Competition Appeal Tribunal
(CAT) in order to overturn the fine or substantially reduce it. The
appeal concluded in April 2017. The CAT delivered its initial
judgement on the appeal on 8 March 2018 referring all the principle
points at issue to the Court of Justice of the EU for a preliminary
ruling. The matter will then return to the CAT for final judgement.
No provision has been made for this matter.232
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Legal proceedings continued
Securities/ERISA class actions – Stiefel Environmental matters
On 12 December 2011, the US Securities and Exchange The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating
Commission (SEC) filed a formal complaint against Stiefel to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain
Laboratories, Inc. and Charles Stiefel in the US District Court for sites, primarily in the US. Some of these matters are the subject of
the District of Florida alleging that Stiefel and its principals violated litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state
federal securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort
shares in the employee stock plan back to the company at a greatly actions brought by private parties.
undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that the
The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
company was about to be sold to the Group. The case was stayed
approximately 19 sites, of which 10 appear on the National Priority
while several private actions brought by former Stiefel employees
List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
proceeded through the courts, but was returned to active status in
Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). These proceedings
early summer 2015. It is unclear when the case ultimately will be
seek to require the operators of hazardous waste facilities,
scheduled for trial.
transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous waste
In addition to the SEC case, one private matter (the “Martinolich” disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse the US
case) remains. It is also pending in federal district court in Florida, Government for cleanup costs. In most instances, the Group is
but has been stayed pending the trial of the SEC matter. The involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste.
allegations in the Martinolich case largely track those in the SEC
Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and
matter: plaintiff, a former Stiefel employee, alleges that Stiefel and
severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are frequently
its officers and directors violated the US Employee Retirement
resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed
Income Security Act (ERISA) and federal and state securities
of by the generator at the site. The Group’s proportionate liability for
laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their shares in the
cleanup costs has been substantially determined for 18 of the sites
employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly undervalued price
referred to above.
and without disclosing to employees that Stiefel was about to be
sold to the Group. The Group’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. The cost
of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over time,
be significant. The Group has made a provision for these matters, as
noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.233
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP (including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
Directors’ statements of responsibilities in relation
to the company’s financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company, Disclosure of information to auditors
GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each
report in accordance with applicable law and regulations. confirmed that:
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial – so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements
– he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and
as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware
Practice). Under company law the Directors must not approve the
of that information.
parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
company and its profit or loss for that period. with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Going concern basis
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters considered in
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
connection with the viability statement, the Directors considered it
consistently;
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable preparing the financial statements.
and prudent;
The UK Corporate Governance Code
– state with regard to the parent company financial statements that The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in
company financial statements; and the Corporate Governance section on pages 79 to 112. The Board
further considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair,
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless
balanced and understandable, and provides the information
it is inappropriate to presume that the parent company will
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and
continue in business.
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, the
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance in
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that
which are specified for their review.
the parent company financial statements and Remuneration report
(on pages 113 to 141) comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.
Philip Hampton
The parent company financial statements for the year ended Chairman
31 December 2017, comprising the balance sheet for the year
12 March 2018
ended 31 December 2017 and supporting notes, are set out on
pages 239 to 242 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent company
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report
on pages 234 to 238.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 are
included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed form and
made available on our website. The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on our website in
accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements. Access to the website is
available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may
be different.
The Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
which represent the management report, include a fair review of
the development and performance of the business and the position
of the company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.234
GSK Annual Report 2017
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the parent company financial statements
Our Opinion Our audit approach
In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s parent company financial Overview
statements (the “financial statements”): Materiality
– give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s – Overall materiality: £70 million (2016 – £70 million), based on 1%
affairs at 31 December 2017; of total assets capped at an allocation of Group materiality.
– have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Scope
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom – The parent company is a single entity and operates in one location.
Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 “Reduced
Areas of focus
Disclosure Framework”, and applicable law); and
– Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
– Vaccines contingent consideration liability.
Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the The scope of our audit
Annual Report, which comprise: the Company balance sheet at 31 As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and
December 2017; the Company statement of changes in equity for the assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial
year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, which statements. In particular, we looked at where the directors made
include a description of the significant accounting policies. subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit & Risk
considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Committee.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework
Basis for opinion
applicable to the Company and the pharmaceutical industry in which
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Company which
on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our
were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud. We
responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’
designed audit procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our
the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is
report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or
Independence intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion. We focused on
We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial the Company financial statements in the event of non-compliance
statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, UK Listing
applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our Rules and UK taxation legalisation. Our tests included, but were not
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. limited to, the review of the financial statement disclosures to
underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit
with legal advisors, enquiries of management and review of Internal
services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided
Audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
to the Group or to the parent company.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described
Other than those disclosed in Note 8 to the Group financial above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and
statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the
and to its subsidiaries in the period from 1 January 2017 to financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
31 December 2017.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities,
including fraud. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of
management override of internal controls, including testing journals
and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors
that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.235
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the parent company financial statements continued
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud)
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit;
and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon,
were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide
a separate opinion on these matters. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries We evaluated management’s assumption whether any indicators of
Refer to Note F in the parent company financial statements impairment existed by comparing the net assets of the subsidiaries at
31 December 2017 with the parent company’s investment carrying
The parent company holds fixed asset investments comprising
values.
investments in subsidiaries of £20,275 million at 31 December
2017 (2016 – £20,236 million). For those investments where the net assets were lower than the
carrying values, we considered their recoverable value by reference to
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less
the Group’s market capitalisation at 31 December 2017 and the
impairment in the Company balance sheet at 31 December 2017.
valuations implied by other models, including valuation models prepared
Investments are tested for impairment if impairment indicators
for the acquisition-related liabilities and for goodwill impairment review
exist. If such indicators exist, the recoverable amounts of the
purposes, all of which were subject to audit procedures as part of our
investments in subsidiaries are estimated in order to determine the
Group audit.
extent of the impairment loss, if any. Any such impairment loss is
recognised in the income statement. As a result of our work, we agreed with management that the carrying
values of the investments held by the parent company are supportable
Management judgement is required in the area of impairment
in the context of the parent company financial statements taken as a
testing, particularly in determining whether any impairment triggers
whole.
have arisen that trigger the need for an impairment review and in
assessing whether the carrying value of an asset can be
supported by the recoverable amount which is determined by
reference to the Group’s market capitalisation and the valuations
implied by other acquisition-related liabilities.
Vaccines contingent consideration liability We deployed our valuation specialists to consider the reasonableness
Refer to Note H and J in the parent company financial of management’s assumptions including growth projections and
statements. probability of success as well as the integrity and accuracy of
management’s model. We compared sales forecasts to independent
On acquisition of the Vaccines business from Novartis in 2015,
market analysis and to board approved long range forecasts. We also
the parent company recognised a contingent consideration liability
verified that the projections are consistent with those used in other
which represents certain future milestone and royalty payments.
estimates, including intangible asset impairment models.
The liability includes milestone payments for acquired products
reaching set revenue and development targets. We considered the appropriateness of management’s judgements
about the probability of achieving the milestones in relation to
The liability is required to be re-measured to its fair value at each
development progress and quantified how sensitive the liability is to
reporting date based on latest forecast and expectations of the
different assumptions around the probability of success. Where the
probability of successful product launches. The value of the liability
probability of success changed in 2017, we verified that this was driven
at 31 December 2017 was £584 million (2016 – £545 million).
by a comparative change in the stage of development of the vaccine.
The carrying value of the liability is based on assumptions such as
The liability is subject to significant estimation uncertainty. However,
forecast cash flows, discount rates, taxation rates and the
based on our procedures performed, we are comfortable that the value
probability of certain vaccines achieving development milestones.
of the liability at 31 December 2017 is reasonable in the context of the
parent company financial statements taken as a whole and reflects
management’s best estimate at this time.
We reviewed the disclosures about the liability included in the Group
financial statements. We are satisfied that these disclosures are
appropriate.236
GSK Annual Report 2017
Independent Auditors’ report to the members
of GlaxoSmithKline plc continued
Report on the parent company financial statements continued
How we tailored the audit scope
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a
whole, taking into account the structure of the parent company, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in which it operates.
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the
financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality £70 million (2016 – £70 million).
How we determined it 1% of total assets capped at an allocation of Group materiality.
Rationale for benchmark applied The parent company holds the Group’s investments and is not in itself profit-oriented. The
strength of the balance sheet is the key measure of financial health that is important to
shareholders since the primary concern for the parent company is the payment of dividends.
Using a benchmark of total assets is therefore most appropriate. This has been capped at
£70 million following an allocation of Group audit materiality since the parent company is a
component for the Group audit.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above £10 million
(2016 – £10 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern
In accordance with ISAs (UK) we report as follows:
Reporting obligation Outcome
We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. However,
draw attention to in respect of the directors’ statement in the because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this
financial statements about whether the directors considered it statement is not a guarantee as to the parent Company’s ability to
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in continue as a going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the directors’ identification
of any material uncertainties to the parent company’s ability to
continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve
months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors’ statement relating to We have nothing to report.
going concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is
materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.237
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual We have nothing to report having performed a review of the
Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment
thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our of the principal risks facing the parent company and statement in
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other relation to the longer-term viability of the parent company. Our review
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form making inquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting
of assurance thereon. their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with
the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our
“Code”); and considering whether the statements are consistent with
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so,
the knowledge and understanding of the parent company and its
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
environment obtained in the course of the audit. (Listing Rules)
the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an Other Code provisions
apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a when:
material misstatement of the financial statements or a material
– The statement given by the directors, on page 104, that they
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have
consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this
and understandable, and provides the information necessary for
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have
the members to assess the parent company’s position and
nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
performance, business model and strategy is materially
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, we also inconsistent with our knowledge of the parent company obtained
considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies in the course of performing our audit;
Act 2006 have been included.
– The section of the Annual Report on pages 99 to 106 describing
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately
undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, address matters communicated by us to the Audit Risk
(CA06), ISAs (UK) and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Committee; and
Authority (FCA) require us also to report certain opinions and matters
– The directors’ statement relating to the parent company’s
as described below (required by ISAs (UK) unless otherwise stated).
compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure
Strategic Report and Directors’ Report from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the Rules, for review by the auditors.
audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors’
Directors’ Remuneration
Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 is consistent with the
In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
applicable legal requirements. (CA06)
Companies Act 2006. (CA06)
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the parent company
and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not
identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and
Directors’ Report. (CA06)
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the parent
company and of the principal risks that would threaten the
solvency or liquidity of the parent company
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding:
– The directors’ confirmation on page 105 of the Annual Report that
they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks
facing the parent company, including those that would threaten its
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity;
– The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and
explain how they are being managed or mitigated; and
– The directors’ explanation on page 57 of the Annual Report as to
how they have assessed the prospects of the parent company,
over what period they have done so and why they consider that
period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they
have a reasonable expectation that the parent company will be
able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due
over the period of their assessment, including any related
disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or
assumptions.238
GSK Annual Report 2017
Independent Auditors’ report to the members
of GlaxoSmithKline plc continued
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements Use of this report
As explained more fully in the directors’ statement of responsibilities This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for
set out on page 233, the directors are responsible for the preparation the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter
of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to by our prior consent in writing.
fraud or error.
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in
assessing the parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern, our opinion:
disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using
– we have not received all the information and explanations we
the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either
require for our audit; or
intend to liquidate the parent company or to cease operations or have
no realistic alternative but to do so. – adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
from branches not visited by us; or
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, – certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that not made; or
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of – the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement accounting records and returns.
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users Appointment
taken on the basis of these financial statements. We have audited the financial statements of the parent company since
the year ended 31 December 2000 following the parent company’s
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial
inception. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 18 years,
statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/
covering the years ended 31 December 2000 to 31 December 2017.
auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’
The year ended 31 December 2017 is our final year of engagement
report.
following the Company’s decision to rotate the external audit.
Other matters
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The parent company has passed a resolution in accordance with
section 506 of the Companies Act that the senior statutory auditor’s
name should not be stated.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
12 March 2018239
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Company balance sheet – Investor information
UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) as at 31 December 2017
2017 2017 2016 2016
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets – investments F 20,275 20,236
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables G 8,715 2,128
Cash at bank 15 12
Total current assets 8,730 2,140
Bank overdrafts (15) (10)
Trade and other payables H (837) (555)
Total current liabilities (852) (565)
Net current assets 7,878 1,575
Total assets less current liabilities 28,153 21,811
Provisions for liabilities I (27) (23)
Other non-current liabilities J (238) (534)
Net assets 27,888 21,254
Capital and reserves
Share capital K 1,343 1,342
Share premium account K 3,019 2,954
Other reserves 1,420 1,420
Retained earnings:
At 1 January 15,538 20,033
Profit/(loss) for the year 9,893 (111)
Other changes in retained earnings (3,325) (4,384)
L 22,106 15,538
Equity shareholders’ funds 27,888 21,254
The financial statements on pages 239 to 242 were approved by the Board on 12 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Hampton
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2017
Share Share premium Other Retained Total
capital account reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2016 1,340 2,831 1,420 20,033 25,624
Loss attributable to shareholders – – – (111) (111)
Dividends to shareholders – – – (4,850) (4,850)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 2 87 – – 89
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – 36 – 466 502
At 31 December 2016 1,342 2,954 1,420 15,538 21,254
Profit attributable to shareholders – – – 9,893 9,893
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,906) (3,906)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 1 55 – – 56
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – 10 – 581 591
At 31 December 2017 1,343 3,019 1,420 22,106 27,888240
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
A) Presentation of the financial statements B) Accounting policies
Description of business Foreign currency transactions
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets and
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines sheet date.
and health-related consumer products.
Dividends paid and received
Preparation of financial statements Dividends paid and received are included in the financial statements
The financial statements, which are prepared using the historical in the period in which the related dividends are actually paid or
cost convention (as modified to include the revaluation of certain received.
financial instruments) and on a going concern basis, are prepared in
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Expenditure
Disclosure Framework’ and with UK accounting presentation and the Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
Companies Act 2006 as at 31 December 2017, with comparative when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
figures as at 31 December 2016. made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the estimated.
income statement of the company is not presented in this Annual
Report. Investments in subsidiary companies
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
The company is included in the Group financial statements of
provision for impairment and also adjusted for movements in
GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available.
contingent consideration.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, Impairment of investments
in accordance with FRS 101: The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
– Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based payment’
Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to
– IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments - Disclosures’ the income statement in the year concerned.
– Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’
Share based payments
– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’
The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over
comparative information requirements in respect of
the company’s shares, represents additional capital contributions
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1
by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in
– Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D),
subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’
111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’
equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of
– IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
– Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes
in accounting estimates and errors’ Taxation
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and the
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party transactions
balance sheet date.
entered into between two or more members of
a Group. Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
Accounting convention and standards
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are
cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting
considered recoverable against future taxable profits.
standards.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected
Accounting principles and policies
to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally
expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax liabilities and assets
accepted accounting principles requires management to make
are not discounted.
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and Financial guarantees
liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts could Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf
differ from those estimates. of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and amortised
over the life of the guarantee.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
Legal and other disputes
described in Note B. These policies have been consistently applied,
The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where
unless otherwise stated.
an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and
legal and other expenses arising from claims against the company.
At 31 December 2017 provisions for legal and other disputes
amounted to £27 million (2016 – £23 million).241
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
C) Key accounting judgements and estimates The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
Legal and other disputes provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
management makes a judgement that an outflow of resources is The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no
probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal
of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising from claims proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported
against the company. The estimated provisions take into account the in the company’s financial statements by a material amount.
specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice,
D) Operating profit
are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time
A fee of £12,053 (2016 – £12,053) relating to the audit of the
as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge.
company has been charged in operating profit.
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
E) Dividends
established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts and
circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting The directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend
requirements. At 31 December 2017 provisions for legal and other for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend for 2016. For further
disputes amounted to £27 million (2016 – £23 million). details, see Note 16 to the Group financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
F) Fixed assets – investments
2017 2016
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
18,552 18,552
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 1,139 1,139
Contribution relating to contingent consideration 584 545
20,275 20,236
G) Trade and other receivables
2017 2016
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 31 201
Other receivables 1 4
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 8,299 1,478
8,331 1,683
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 384 445
8,715 2,128
H) Trade and other payables
2017 2016
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other creditors 438 514
Contingent consideration payable 346 11
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 53 30
837 555
The company has guaranteed debt issued by its subsidiary companies from two of which it receives fees. In aggregate, the company has
outstanding guarantees over £16.7 billion of debt instruments (2016 – £18.4 billion). The amounts due from the subsidiary company in relation
to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade and other receivables’ (see Note G).242
GSK Annual Report 2017
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
I) Provisions for liabilities
2017 2016
£m £m
At 1 January 23 40
Exchange adjustments (3) 13
Charge for the year 52 78
Utilised (45) (108)
At 31 December 27 23
The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
J) Other non-current liabilities
2017 2016
£m £m
Contingent consideration payable 238 534
238 534
The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The current year
liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’.
K) Share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary Shares of 25p each account
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2016 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2017 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2016 5,361,307,647 1,340 2,831
Issued under employee share schemes 7,008,415 2 87
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – – 36
At 31 December 2016 5,368,316,062 1,342 2,954
Issued under employee share schemes 4,237,758 1 55
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – – 10
At 31 December 2017 5,372,553,820 1,343 3,019
31 December 31 December
2017 2016
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 38,647 71,382
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,588,799 4,560,302
At 31 December 2017, of the issued share capital, 66,696,677 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 414,605,950 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,891,251,193 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of the
shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 43, ‘Employee share schemes’.
L) Retained earnings
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £9,893 million (2016 – £111 million loss), which after dividends of £3,906 million
(2016 – £4,850 million), gave a retained profit of £5,987 million (2016 – £4,961 million loss). No Treasury shares were purchased in the
year (2016 – £nil). After the effect of the £581 million Treasury shares transferred to a subsidiary company (2016 – £466 million), retained
earnings at 31 December 2017 stood at £22,106 million (2016 – £15,538 million), of which £4,096 million was unrealised (2016 – £4,096
million). In addition, the £10 billion dividend received by the company during 2017 will not be distributable until after the 2017 Annual Report
is filed during April 2018.
M) Group companies
See pages 276 to 286 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, which forms part of these financial statements.224433
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001177 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Investor
information
In this section
Quarterly trend 244
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 246
Five year record 248
Product development pipeline 251
Products, competition and intellectual property 254
Principal risks and uncertainties 257
Share capital and share price 267
Dividends 269
Financial calendar 269
Annual General Meeting 2018 270
Tax information for shareholders 270
Shareholder services and contacts 272
US law and regulation 274
Group companies 276
Glossary of terms 287244
GSK Annual Report 2017
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2017.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2017 Q4 2017 Q3 2017 Q2 2017 Q1 2017
Reported Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,276 7 3 4,540 (1) 3 4,190 3 2 4,357 12 3 4,189 17 4
Vaccines 5,160 12 6 1,208 6 9 1,689 5 – 1,111 16 5 1,152 31 16
Consumer Healthcare 7,750 8 2 1,891 1 4 1,964 5 2 1,852 10 – 2,043 16 2
Total turnover 30,186 8 3 7,639 1 4 7,843 4 2 7,320 12 3 7,384 19 5
Cost of sales (10,342) 11 8 (2,558) 2 4 (2,652) 5 3 (2,619) 23 16 (2,513) 18 8
Selling, general and administration (9,672) 3 (1) (2,533) (7) (3) (2,308) 1 (2) (2,379) 9 – (2,452) 12 (1)
Research and development (4,476) 23 19 (1,209) 21 24 (1,047) 14 11 (1,260) 42 34 (960) 18 7
Royalty income 356 (11) (13) 69 (41) (39) 107 – (3) 98 18 12 82 (10) (15)
Other operating income/(expense) (1,965) (896) (66) (1,180) 177
Operating profit/(loss) 4,087 57 39 512 (14) (4) 1,877 31 27 (20) 87 (45) 1,718 >100 100
Net finance costs (669) (138) (181) (177) (173)
Profit on disposal of associates 94 66 8 20 –
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 13 2 7 (1) 5
Profit/(loss) before taxation 3,525 82 58 442 4 17 1,711 34 30 (178) 44 (18) 1,550 >100 >100
Taxation (1,356) (805) (316) 92 (327)
Tax rate % 38.5% >100% 18.5% 51.7% 21.1%
Profit/(loss) after taxation for the period 2,169 >100 71 (363) >(100) >(100) 1,395 58 53 (86) 83 50 1,223 >100 >100
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 183 183 94 177
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders 1,532 (546) 1,212 (180) 1,046
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 31.4p 67 36 (11.2)p >(100) >(100) 24.8p 49 46 (3.7)p 59 29 21.4p >100 >100
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 31.0p (11.2)p 24.6p (3.7)p 21.3p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 30,186 8 3 7,639 1 4 7,843 4 2 7,320 12 3 7,384 19 5
Cost of sales (8,771) 5 1 (2,258) 3 5 (2,304) 1 (2) (1,988) 3 (2) (2,221) 15 5
Selling, general and administration (9,341) 6 1 (2,420) (2) 2 (2,280) 4 2 (2,294) 11 2 (2,347) 13 –
Research and development (3,862) 11 8 (992) (2) – (898) 3 1 (1,053) 32 24 (919) 19 8
Royalty income 356 (11) (13) 69 (41) (39) 107 – (3) 98 18 12 82 (10) (15)
Operating profit 8,568 12 5 2,038 1 5 2,468 7 5 2,083 14 – 1,979 30 9
Net finance costs (657) (135) (177) (176) (169)
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 13 2 7 (1) 5
Profit before taxation 7,924 13 5 1,905 3 7 2,298 7 5 1,906 15 – 1,815 33 11
Taxation (1,667) (381) (482) (405) (399)
Tax rate % 21.0% 20.0% 21.0% 21.2% 22.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,257 13 6 1,524 5 9 1,816 7 4 1,501 15 – 1,416 32 10
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 793 192 228 174 199
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,464 1,332 1,588 1,327 1,217
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 111.8p 11 4 27.2p 7 11 32.5p 3 – 27.2p 12 (2) 25.0p 31 9
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 58.245
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Quarterly trend Quarterly trend continued
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2017.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2017 Q4 2017 Q3 2017 Q2 2017 Q1 2017
Reported Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,276 7 3 4,540 (1) 3 4,190 3 2 4,357 12 3 4,189 17 4
Vaccines 5,160 12 6 1,208 6 9 1,689 5 – 1,111 16 5 1,152 31 16
Consumer Healthcare 7,750 8 2 1,891 1 4 1,964 5 2 1,852 10 – 2,043 16 2
Total turnover 30,186 8 3 7,639 1 4 7,843 4 2 7,320 12 3 7,384 19 5
Cost of sales (10,342) 11 8 (2,558) 2 4 (2,652) 5 3 (2,619) 23 16 (2,513) 18 8
Selling, general and administration (9,672) 3 (1) (2,533) (7) (3) (2,308) 1 (2) (2,379) 9 – (2,452) 12 (1)
Research and development (4,476) 23 19 (1,209) 21 24 (1,047) 14 11 (1,260) 42 34 (960) 18 7
Royalty income 356 (11) (13) 69 (41) (39) 107 – (3) 98 18 12 82 (10) (15)
Other operating income/(expense) (1,965) (896) (66) (1,180) 177
Operating profit/(loss) 4,087 57 39 512 (14) (4) 1,877 31 27 (20) 87 (45) 1,718 >100 100
Net finance costs (669) (138) (181) (177) (173)
Profit on disposal of associates 94 66 8 20 –
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 13 2 7 (1) 5
Profit/(loss) before taxation 3,525 82 58 442 4 17 1,711 34 30 (178) 44 (18) 1,550 >100 >100
Taxation (1,356) (805) (316) 92 (327)
Tax rate % 38.5% >100% 18.5% 51.7% 21.1%
Profit/(loss) after taxation for the period 2,169 >100 71 (363) >(100) >(100) 1,395 58 53 (86) 83 50 1,223 >100 >100
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 183 183 94 177
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders 1,532 (546) 1,212 (180) 1,046
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 31.4p 67 36 (11.2)p >(100) >(100) 24.8p 49 46 (3.7)p 59 29 21.4p >100 >100
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 31.0p (11.2)p 24.6p (3.7)p 21.3p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 30,186 8 3 7,639 1 4 7,843 4 2 7,320 12 3 7,384 19 5
Cost of sales (8,771) 5 1 (2,258) 3 5 (2,304) 1 (2) (1,988) 3 (2) (2,221) 15 5
Selling, general and administration (9,341) 6 1 (2,420) (2) 2 (2,280) 4 2 (2,294) 11 2 (2,347) 13 –
Research and development (3,862) 11 8 (992) (2) – (898) 3 1 (1,053) 32 24 (919) 19 8
Royalty income 356 (11) (13) 69 (41) (39) 107 – (3) 98 18 12 82 (10) (15)
Operating profit 8,568 12 5 2,038 1 5 2,468 7 5 2,083 14 – 1,979 30 9
Net finance costs (657) (135) (177) (176) (169)
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 13 2 7 (1) 5
Profit before taxation 7,924 13 5 1,905 3 7 2,298 7 5 1,906 15 – 1,815 33 11
Taxation (1,667) (381) (482) (405) (399)
Tax rate % 21.0% 20.0% 21.0% 21.2% 22.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,257 13 6 1,524 5 9 1,816 7 4 1,501 15 – 1,416 32 10
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 793 192 228 174 199
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,464 1,332 1,588 1,327 1,217
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 111.8p 11 4 27.2p 7 11 32.5p 3 – 27.2p 12 (2) 25.0p 31 9
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 58.246
GSK Annual Report 2017
Financial record continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2017
Total US Europe International
2016
2017 (revised) Growth 2017 Growth 2017 Growth 2017 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 6,991 6,510 7 3 3,556 8 3 1,458 5 – 1,977 9 5
Anoro Ellipta 342 201 70 63 234 68 61 69 77 67 39 70 65
Arnuity Ellipta 35 15 >100 >100 32 >100 >100 – – – 3 >100 >100
Avamys/Veramyst 281 277 1 (4) 1 (96) (96) 76 3 (3) 204 15 9
Flixotide/Flovent 596 637 (6) (10) 323 (15) (18) 95 1 (5) 178 8 5
Incruse Ellipta 201 114 76 68 134 56 49 51 >100 >100 16 >100 >100
Nucala 344 102 >100 >100 236 >100 >100 70 >100 >100 38 >100 >100
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,006 620 62 55 602 75 67 202 44 36 202 49 42
Seretide/Advair 3,130 3,485 (10) (14) 1,610 (12) (16) 736 (12) (17) 784 (5) (8)
Trelegy Ellipta 2 – – – 2 – – – – – – – –
Ventolin 767 785 (2) (6) 380 (10) (14) 132 4 (2) 255 8 5
Other 287 274 5 3 2 >(100) 3 27 (4) (4) 258 4 3
HIV 4,350 3,556 22 16 2,697 26 21 1,114 10 3 539 33 26
Epzicom/Kivexa 234 568 (59) (61) 27 (86) (87) 114 (54) (57) 93 (22) (25)
Juluca 5 – – – 5 – – – – – – – –
Selzentry 128 125 2 (2) 66 – (5) 42 1 (4) 20 15 11
Tivicay 1,404 953 47 40 923 44 38 315 39 30 166 95 88
Triumeq 2,461 1,735 42 35 1,632 40 34 606 39 31 223 66 58
Other 118 175 (32) (37) 44 (28) (31) 37 (41) (44) 37 (28) (35)
Immuno-inflammation 377 340 11 6 339 9 5 27 29 24 11 37 –
Benlysta 375 306 23 17 338 22 17 27 29 19 10 26 26
Other 2 34 (95) (99) 1 (98) (96) – – – 1 – –
Established pharmaceuticals 5,558 5,698 (2) (5) 976 (10) (14) 1,384 (5) (11) 3,198 2 –
Dermatology 456 393 16 11 7 (56) (56) 162 11 5 287 24 20
Augmentin 587 563 4 2 – – – 182 3 (4) 405 5 5
Avodart 613 635 (3) (9) 15 (79) (79) 297 (6) (12) 301 21 16
Coreg 134 131 2 (2) 134 2 (2) – – – – – –
Eperzan/Tanzeum 87 121 (28) (31) 83 (30) (32) 3 – – 1 >(100) (100)
Imigran/Imitrex 168 177 (5) (8) 77 (9) (12) 65 5 – 26 (13) (17)
Lamictal 650 614 6 1 332 6 1 107 1 (5) 211 8 5
Requip 110 116 (5) (9) 12 (8) (15) 29 (3) (13) 69 (5) (5)
Serevent 96 96 – (4) 52 6 2 33 (6) (11) 11 (8) (8)
Seroxat/Paxil 184 206 (11) (14) – – – 39 (3) (8) 145 (4) (7)
Valtrex 128 118 8 3 20 25 19 29 16 12 79 3 (3)
Zeffix 89 111 (20) (22) 1 (50) (50) 6 (14) (29) 82 (20) (21)
Other 2,256 2,417 (7) (8) 243 (7) (11) 432 (16) (21) 1,581 (4) (4)
Pharmaceuticals 17,276 16,104 7 3 7,568 11 6 3,983 3 (3) 5,725 6 4
Vaccines turnover 2017
Total US Europe International
2016
2017 (revised) Growth 2017 Growth 2017 Growth 2017 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 890 662 34 27 339 40 34 391 40 31 160 15 6
Bexsero 556 390 43 34 152 25 20 342 45 36 62 94 75
Menveo 274 202 36 29 187 55 48 34 26 19 53 (2) (7)
Other 60 70 (14) (20) – – – 15 (12) (18) 45 (15) (21)
Influenza 488 414 18 12 361 15 10 49 53 44 78 16 9
Fluarix, FluLaval 488 414 18 12 361 15 10 49 53 44 78 16 9
Shingles 22 – – – 22 – – – – – – – –
Shingrix 22 – – – 22 – – – – – – – –
Established vaccines 3,760 3,516 7 1 1,147 10 5 1,160 4 (2) 1,453 7 1
Infanrix, Pediarix 743 769 (3) (8) 330 (2) (7) 315 (6) (11) 98 2 (4)
Boostrix 560 470 19 13 262 10 5 185 33 24 113 22 14
Hepatitis 693 602 15 10 379 29 23 201 2 (4) 113 2 (2)
Rotarix 524 469 12 6 132 2 (2) 95 27 19 297 12 6
Synflorix 509 504 1 (6) – – – 67 (1) (7) 442 1 (5)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 301 300 – (5) – – – 164 8 1 137 (8) (12)
Cervarix 134 81 65 57 – – – 29 (12) (18) 105 >100 >100
Other 296 321 (8) (13) 44 8 – 104 (7) (11) 148 (12) (17)
Vaccines 5,160 4,592 12 6 1,869 17 12 1,600 12 6 1,691 8 1
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.247
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2016
Total US Europe International
2015
2016 (revised) Growth 2016 Growth 2016 Growth 2016 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 6,510 5,741 13 2 3,306 20 7 1,383 (2) (10) 1,821 16 3
Anoro Ellipta 201 79 >100 >100 139 >100 >100 39 >100 >100 23 >100 >100
Arnuity Ellipta 15 3 >100 >100 14 >100 >100 – – – 1 >100 (100)
Avamys/Veramyst 277 229 21 8 25 – (12) 74 12 2 178 29 15
Flixotide/Flovent 637 623 2 (8) 378 – (11) 94 2 (8) 165 9 –
Incruse Ellipta 114 14 >100 >100 86 >100 >100 23 >100 >100 5 >100 >100
Nucala 102 1 >100 >100 71 >100 >100 23 >100 >100 8 – –
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 620 257 >100 >100 344 >100 >100 140 75 60 136 97 67
Seretide/Advair 3,485 3,681 (5) (15) 1,829 (2) (13) 835 (18) (24) 821 2 (7)
Ventolin 785 620 27 15 421 38 23 127 9 1 237 19 12
Other 274 234 17 (1) (1) 34 (100) 28 5 (3) 247 19 (2)
HIV 3,556 2,322 53 37 2,132 64 46 1,017 42 29 407 34 21
Epzicom/Kivexa 568 698 (19) (27) 195 (23) (32) 251 (17) (25) 122 (13) (21)
Selzentry 125 124 1 (9) 65 10 (2) 41 (14) (22) 19 11 4
Tivicay 953 588 62 45 635 65 46 228 55 40 90 62 47
Triumeq 1,735 730 >100 >100 1,159 >100 >100 434 >100 >100 142 >100 >100
Other 175 182 (4) (12) 78 (19) (28) 63 50 36 34 (23) (24)
Immuno-inflammation 340 263 29 15 311 29 14 21 40 27 8 33 17
Benlysta 306 230 33 19 277 33 18 21 40 20 8 33 33
Other 34 33 3 (9) 34 3 (9) – – – – – –
Established pharmaceuticals 5,698 5,831 (2) (11) 1,088 (12) (21) 1,463 4 (5) 3,147 (1) (9)
Dermatology 393 412 (5) (12) 16 (61) (63) 146 6 (2) 231 (1) (9)
Augmentin 563 528 7 – – – – 177 4 (5) 386 8 2
Avodart 635 657 (3) (14) 70 (58) (63) 317 25 13 248 5 (8)
Coreg 131 123 7 (5) 131 7 (5) – – – – – –
Eperzan/Tanzeum 121 41 >100 >100 118 >100 >100 3 >100 100 – – –
Imigran/Imitrex 177 160 11 3 85 12 8 62 11 4 30 7 (11)
Lamictal 614 531 16 5 313 18 5 106 10 1 195 15 9
Requip 116 93 25 8 13 >100 >100 30 3 (7) 73 24 3
Serevent 96 93 3 (6) 49 14 – 35 (3) (11) 12 (14) (14)
Seroxat/Paxil 206 165 25 10 15 >(100) (100) 40 14 6 151 6 (8)
Valtrex 118 165 (28) (37) 16 (20) (30) 25 4 (4) 77 (36) (45)
Zeffix 111 134 (17) (24) 2 – – 7 – (14) 102 (18) (25)
Other 2,417 2,729 (11) (19) 260 (45) (51) 515 (9) (17) 1,642 (3) (10)
Pharmaceuticals 16,104 14,157 14 3 6,837 24 10 3,884 9 – 5,383 6 (3)
Vaccines turnover 2016
Total US Europe International
2015
2016 (revised) Growth 2016 Growth 2016 Growth 2016 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 662 326 >100 86 243 >100 85 280 >100 87 139 74 69
Bexsero 390 115 >100 >100 122 >100 >100 236 >100 >100 32 >100 >100
Menveo 202 160 26 16 121 22 8 27 (25) (31) 54 >100 >100
Other 70 51 37 29 – – – 17 13 – 53 44 39
Influenza 414 268 54 38 315 60 42 32 39 26 67 40 31
Fluarix, FluLaval 414 268 54 38 315 60 42 32 39 26 67 40 31
Established vaccines 3,516 3,062 15 4 1,041 10 (2) 1,111 19 8 1,364 16 5
Infanrix, Pediarix 769 733 5 (5) 338 26 12 335 1 (8) 96 (27) (31)
Boostrix 470 358 31 18 238 14 1 139 58 43 93 52 39
Hepatitis 602 540 11 1 294 8 (4) 197 28 17 111 (2) (8)
Rotarix 469 417 12 1 129 (7) (17) 75 17 8 265 24 10
Synflorix 504 381 32 19 – – – 68 74 59 436 27 15
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 300 260 15 5 – – – 152 12 – 148 19 9
Cervarix 81 88 (8) (14) 1 (67) (67) 33 (11) (22) 47 (2) (4)
Other 321 285 13 1 41 (21) (27) 112 29 22 168 21 4
Vaccines 4,592 3,656 26 14 1,599 27 13 1,423 30 18 1,570 21 10
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.248
GSK Annual Report 2017
Financial record continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the
Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
Comparative information for 2013 is also reported including the effect of the divestments completed in 2013.
2016 2015 2014 2013
2017 (revised) (revised) (revised) (revised)
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m £m £m
US 11,263 10,197 8,222 7,409 8,695
Europe 7,943 7,476 6,435 6,284 6,670
International 10,980 10,216 9,266 9,313 10,237
30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006 25,602
Divestments – – – – 903
Total turnover including divestments 30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006 26,505
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Group turnover by segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,276 16,104 14,157 15,438 17,359
Vaccines 5,160 4,592 3,656 3,159 3,384
Consumer Healthcare 7,750 7,193 6,038 4,322 4,713
Segment turnover 30,186 27,889 23,851 22,919 25,456
Corporate and other unallocated turnover – – 72 87 146
30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006 25,602
Divestments completed in 2013 – – – – 903
30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006 26,505
Pharmaceuticals turnover
Respiratory 6,991 6,510 5,741 6,168 7,259
HIV 4,350 3,556 2,322 1,498 1,386
Immuno-inflammation 377 340 263 214 161
Established Pharmaceuticals 5,558 5,698 5,831 7,558 8,553
17,276 16,104 14,157 15,438 17,359
Vaccines turnover
Meningitis 890 662 326 – –
Influenza 488 414 268 215 251
Shingles 22 – – – –
Established Vaccines 3,760 3,516 3,062 2,944 3,133
5,160 4,592 3,656 3,159 3,384
Consumer Healthcare turnover
Wellness 4,001 3,726 2,970 1,565 1,807
Oral care 2,466 2,223 1,875 1,806 1,892
Nutrition 680 674 684 633 628
Skin health 603 570 509 318 386
7,750 7,193 6,038 4,322 4,713249
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Five year record continued
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Financial results – Total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006 26,505
Operating profit 4,087 2,598 10,322 3,597 7,028
Profit before taxation 3,525 1,939 10,526 2,968 6,647
Profit after taxation 2,169 1,062 8,372 2,831 5,628
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 31.4 18.8 174.3 57.3 112.5
Diluted earnings per share 31.0 18.6 172.3 56.7 110.5
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 4,886 4,860 4,831 4,808 4,831
Diluted 4,941 4,909 4,888 4,865 4,919
2016 2015 2014 2013
2017 (revised) (revised) (revised) (revised)
Financial results – Adjusted £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006 25,602
Operating profit 8,568 7,671 5,659 6,456 7,724
Profit before taxation 7,924 7,024 5,021 5,840 7,075
Profit after taxation 6,257 5,526 4,045 4,675 5,443
pence pence pence pence pence
Adjusted earnings per share 111.8 100.6 74.6 92.7 107.5
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 83.4 28.0 152.4 46.6 91.4
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.250
GSK Annual Report 2017
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 40,474 42,370 36,859 25,973 26,859
Current assets 15,907 16,711 16,587 15,059 15,732
Total assets 56,381 59,081 53,446 41,032 42,591
Current liabilities (26,569) (19,001) (13,417) (13,676) (14,182)
Non-current liabilities (26,323) (35,117) (31,151) (22,420) (20,597)
Total liabilities (52,892) (54,118) (44,568) (36,096) (34,779)
Net assets 3,489 4,963 8,878 4,936 7,812
Shareholders’ equity (68) 1,124 5,114 4,263 6,997
Non-controlling interests 3,557 3,839 3,764 673 815
Total equity 3,489 4,963 8,878 4,936 7,812
Number of employees
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
US 14,526 14,491 14,696 16,579 16,530
Europe 43,002 42,330 43,538 37,899 38,367
International 40,934 42,479 43,021 43,443 44,554
98,462 99,300 101,255 97,921 99,451
Manufacturing 38,245 38,372 38,855 32,171 31,502
Selling 37,374 38,158 39,549 42,785 45,397
Administration 11,307 11,244 11,140 10,630 10,232
Research and development 11,536 11,526 11,711 12,335 12,320
98,462 99,300 101,255 97,921 99,451
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are employed and
managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US Dollars for
Sterling as reported by the Bank of England (4pm buying rate).
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the 4pm buying rates for each day of the year.
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Average 1.29 1.35 1.53 1.65 1.56
2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017
Mar Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.38 1.42 1.43 1.35 1.35 1.33 1.36
Low 1.37 1.38 1.35 1.33 1.31 1.31 1.30
The 4pm buying rate on 2 March 2018 was £1= US$1.38.251
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key † In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe)
^ V iiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with NDA New Drug Application (US)
GSK, Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, Phase I E valuation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
is responsible for developing and delivering HIV medicines. in volunteers
1 Option-based alliance with Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Phase II D etermination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy,
S Month of first submission conducted in a small number of patients
A M onth of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first Phase III L arge comparative study (compound versus placebo
EU approval letter) and/or established treatment) in patients to establish
BLA Biological Licence Application clinical benefit and safety
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
HIV^ and Infectious Diseases
dolutegravir + HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor + non- HIV infection – (virologically suppressed patients)Approved S: May17 A: Nov17
rilpivirine† nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline plasmodium vivax malaria Submitted S: Nov17
Dectova (zanamivir) i.v.†neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) influenza Submitted S: Nov17
dolutegravir + HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor + nucleoside HIV infection III
lamivudine reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI)
fostemsavir HIV attachment inhibitor HIV infection III
cabotegravir HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor (long-acting) HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis III
cabotegravir + HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor + non- HIV infection III
rilpivirine† nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)
(long-acting regimen)
gepotidacin type 2 topoisomerase inhibitor bacterial infections II
(2140944)
32288361 HBV antisense oligonucleotide hepatitis B II
33894041 HBV LICA antisense oligonucleotide hepatitis B II
CCI15106† viral replication inhibitor (nucleoside) viral exacerbations of COPD I
3640254 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection I
3036656† leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor tuberculosis I
Respiratory
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis Approved A:Dec17
Trelegy (fluticasone glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting beta2 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Approved A:Nov17 A:Sep17
furoate + vilanterol† agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist
+ umeclidinium)
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody COPD Submitted S:Nov17
fluticasone furoate + glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting beta2 asthma III
vilanterol† + agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist
umeclidinium
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome III
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody nasal polyposis III
nemiralisib phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta (PI3Kδ) inhibitor COPD (acute and chronic) II
danirixin chemokine (C-X-C Motif) receptor 2 (CXCR2) COPD II
antagonist (oral)
2586881† recombinant human angiotensin converting acute lung injury II
enzyme 2 (rhACE2)
2862277 tumour necrosis factor receptor-1 (TNFR1) acute lung injury II
domain antibody
2245035 toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist asthma II
nemiralisib phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta (PI3Kδ) inhibitor activated PI3K delta syndrome II
3772847† interleukin 33r (IL33r) monoclonal antibody severe asthma II
2586881† recombinant human angiotensin converting pulmonary arterial hypertension I
enzyme 2 (rhACE2)252
GSK Annual Report 2017
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Respiratory continued
3008348 alpha V beta 6 integrin antagonist idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis I
nemiralisib phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta bronchiectasis I
(PI3Kδ) inhibitor
2292767 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta COPD I
(PI3Kδ) inhibitor
3511294 interleukin 5 (IL5) long-acting asthma I
monoclonal antibody
Oncology
3377794† NY-ESO-1 autologous engineered sarcoma, multiple myeloma, non-small cell lung cancer, II
TCR-T cells (engineered TCR) melanoma and ovarian cancer
2857916† B-cell maturation antigen antibody multiple myeloma II
drug conjugate
525762 BET family bromodomain inhibitor solid tumours and haematological malignancies I
3174998† OX40 agonist monoclonal antibody solid tumours and haematological malignancies I
3326595 protein arginine methyltransferase 5 cancer I
(PRMT5) inhibitor
3359609 induced T-cell costimulator (ICOS) cancer I
agonist antibody
1795091 toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist cancer I
2636771 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) beta castration resistant prostate cancer I
inhibitor
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus Approved A: Nov17 A: Jul17
antibody (s.c.)
3196165† granulocyte macrophage colony- osteoarthritis II
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody
3196165† granulocyte macrophage colony- rheumatoid arthritis II
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody
Benlysta + Rituxan B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal Sjogren’s syndrome II
antibody (s.c.) + cluster of differentiation
20 (CD20) monoclonal antibody (i.v.)
2982772 receptor-interacting protein 1 (RIP1) psoriasis II
kinase inhibitor
2982772 receptor-interacting protein 1 (RIP1) rheumatoid arthritis II
kinase inhibitor
2330811 oncostatin M (OSM) monoclonal antibodysystemic sclerosis II
2982772 receptor-interacting protein 1 (RIP1) ulcerative colitis II
kinase inhibitor
2831781† lymphocyte activation gene 3 (LAG3) autoimmune disease I
protein monoclonal antibody
2983559 receptor-interacting protein 2 (RIP2) inflammatory bowel diseases I
kinase inhibitor
3335065 Kynurenine 3-monooxygenase inhibitor acute pancreatitis I
Future pipeline optionality
daprodustat (1278863) prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor (oral) anaemia associated with chronic renal disease III
dezamizumab serum amyloid P component (SAP) amyloidosis II
(2398852)† + monoclonal antibody + SAP depleter
2315698† (CPHPC)
oxytocin (inhaled)† oxytocin postpartum hemorrhage II
tapinarof (2894512)† non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (topical) atopic dermatitis II
tapinarof (2894512)† non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (topical) psoriasis II
2881078 selective androgen receptor modulator muscle wasting I
Following a strategic review in 2017, assets from the Rare Diseases Unit are no longer included in the pipeline table with the future ownership of these assets in consideration.253
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Vaccines
Shingrix† recombinant Herpes Zoster prophylaxis Approved S: Nov16 A: Oct17
(Zoster Vaccine) (US)
Submitted
(EU)
Rotavirus live attenuated, PCV Rotavirus prophylaxis III
(Porcine circovirus) free
MMR live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis III (US)
Ebola† recombinant viral vector Ebola haemorrhagic fever prophylaxis II
S. pneumoniae next recombinant – conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis II
generation†
COPD recombinant reduction of the frequency of moderate and severe II
acute exacerbations in COPD patients by targeting
non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella
catarrhalis
Hepatitis C† heterologous recombinant viral vectors hepatitis C virus prophylaxis: prevention of II
establishment of chronic infection
Malaria next generation† recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
Men ABCWY recombinant – conjugated meningococcal A,B,C,W and Y disease prophylaxis II
in adolescents
Shigella† conjugated and outer membrane Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis II
Tuberculosis† recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
RSV replication-defective recombinant respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in paediatric II
viral vector population
Flu universal† universal inactivated influenza vaccine Flu infection prophylaxis with broad protection I/II
over multiple seasons
HIV† recombinant proteins HIV infection prophylaxis II
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies, with the exception of Rituxan owned by Biogen MA Inc.254
GSK Annual Report 2017
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Respiratory
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Respimat, Stiolto 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Utibron/Ultibro (NCE) (NCE)
Breezhaler, 2027-2030 2022-2025
Duaklir Genuair (device/ (device/
Bevespi formulation) formulation)
Arnuity Ellipta fluticasone furoate asthma Qvar, Pulmicort 2021 NA
Asmanex, Alvesco (NCE)
2027-2030
(device/
formulation)
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasonex 20212 2023
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair expired expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2018-20261 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Incruse Ellipta umeclidinium bromide COPD Spiriva Handihaler/ 2027 2029
Respimat, Eklira Genuair (NCE) (NCE)
Seebri Breezhaler 2027-2030 2022-2025
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Nucala mepolizumab severe eosinophilic asthma, EGPA Xolair, Cinqair, Fasenra expired4 20204
Relvar/Breo Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2025 2027
vilanterol trifenatate Flutiform, Dulera (NCE) (NCE)
2027-2030 2022-2025
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Seretide/Advair salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, expired expired
fluticasone propionate Flutiform, Dulera (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2018-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma/COPD Foradil, Striverdi, expired expired
Respimat, Onbrez (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
Breezhaler 2021
(HFA-device)
Trelegy Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ COPD Trimbow 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate (NCE) (NCE)
umeclidinium bromide 2027-2030 2022-2025
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2018-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Anti-virals
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, shingles Famvir expired expired
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various anxiety Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
disorders Lexapro
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, expired expired
finasteride
Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 20262 NA
hypertension, left ventricular (formulation)
dysfunction post MI
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
1 See Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Generic competition commenced in 2017.
3 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.
4 Data exclusivity expires 2025 (EU) and 2027 (US).255
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Rare diseases
Volibris ambrisentan pulmonary hypertension Tracleer, Revatio NA 2020
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta, Benlysta SC belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus 2025 2026
HIV
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired 20191,2
Descovy, Genvoya (combination)
Odefsey
Juluca dolutegravir, rilpivitine HIV/AIDS Genvoya, Odefsey 2027 2029
Descovy, Atripla (NCE) (NCE)
Lexiva/Telzir fosamprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, expired 2019
Reyataz (NCE)
Selzentry/Celsentri maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2021 2022
Prezista (NCE) (NCE)
Tivicay dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 20271 2029
Reyataz, Kaletra, (NCE) (NCE)
Biktarvy
Triumeq dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Atripla, Descovy, 2027 2029
and abacavir Odefsey, Genvoya, (NCE) (NCE)
Biktarvy
Vaccines products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Bexsero meningococcal group-B Meningitis group B prevention Trumenba 2027 2028
vaccine
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular diphtheria, tetanus, acellular Adacel expired expired
pertussis Pertussis booster vaccination
Infanrix Hexa/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Prophylaxis against diphtheria, Pentacel, Pediacel, 2018 expired
polio, hepatitis B, Haemophilus tetanus, pertussis, polio, Pentaxim, Pentavac,
influenzae type B (EU) hepatitis B, Haemophilus Hexaxim, Hexyon
influenzae type B (EU) Vaxelis
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2020 2020
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Intenza, Flumist QIV, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Vaxigrip QIV,
and 2 subtype B) Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Fluzone, Influvac,
and 2 subtype B) Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Menveo meningococcal group A, C, W- Meningitis group A, C, W-135 Nimenrix, Menactra 2025 2025
135 and Y conjugate vaccine and Y prophylaxis
Prepandrix derived split inactivated pandemic H5N1 influenza Aflunov, Vepacel – 2026
influenza virus antigen, prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Priorix, Priorix Tetraa,b live attenuated measles, mumps, measles, mumps, rubella and MMR II (M-M-RVaxPro) 20194 expired
Varilrixb rubella and varicella vaccine chickenpox prophylaxis Proquad, Varivax
Rotarix Human rotavirus RIX4414 strain Rotavirus prophylaxis Rotateq – 2020
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal Prophylaxis against invasive Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2024
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia,
acute otitis media
Shingrix zoster vaccine herpes zoster Zostavax 2026 2026
recombinant, adjuvanted (shingles)
1 See Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. 4 Refers to Priorix and Priorix Tetra, as all patents on Varilrix have expired.
2 Generic competition commenced in many markets during 2016. a Related compounds/indications are measles, mumps and rubella vaccine/prophylaxis
3 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in b Related compound is varicella vaccine
multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.256
GSK Annual Report 2017
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Wellness
Respiratory
Otrivin nasal spray nasal decongestant Germany, Poland, Afrin, Merck
Russia, Sweden, Ukraine Nasivin, Merck
Theraflu tablets and syrups cold and flu relief Russia, Poland, Ukraine, Tylenol Cold & Flu,
US Johnson & Johnson
Mucinex, Reckitt Benckiser
Lemsip, Reckitt Benckiser
Flonase nasal spray allergy relief US Claritin, Bayer, Nasacort, Sanofi
Flixonase, Piriton nasal spray, tablets allergy relief UK, Ireland Benadryl, Johnson & Johnson
Nicorette (US), lozenges, gum and trans-dermal treatment of nicotine withdrawal global Nicorette, Johnson & Johnson
NicoDerm, patches as an aid to smoking reduction NiQuitin, Perrigo
Nicotinell and cessation
(ex. Australia)
Pain relief
Panadol and tablets, caplets, infant paracetamol-based treatment global (except US) Advil, Pfizer
Panadol Cold syrup drops for headache, joint pain, fever, Aspirin, Bayer
& Flu cold symptoms Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Voltaren topical gel non-steroidal, diclofenac based global (except US) Advil, Pfizer
anti-inflammatory Aspirin, Bayer
Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Other
ENO effervescent immediate relief antacid global (except US) Estomazil, Hypermarca
Gelusil, Pfizer
Tums chewable tablets immediate relief antacid US Alka-Seltzer, Bayer
Gaviscon, Reckitt Benckiser
Rolaids, Sanofi
Oral health
Sensodyne, toothpastes, toothbrushes, relief of dentinal hypersensitivity. global Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief,
Pronamel mouth rinse Pronamel additionally protects Colgate-Palmolive
against acid erosion Elmex, Colgate-Palmolive
Oral B, Procter & Gamble
parodontax/ toothpaste, medicated helps prevent bleeding gums, Germany, Ireland Colgate Total Gum Health,
Corsodyl mouthwash, gel and spray treats and prevents gingivitis Italy, United Kingdom Colgate-Palmolive
Yunnan Baiyao, State
Enterprise (China)
Polident, denture adhesive, denture improve retention and comfort global Fixodent and Kukident,
Poligrip, cleanser of dentures, cleans dentures Procter & Gamble,
Corega Steradent, Reckitt Benckiser
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes aids prevention of dental cavities, global Colgate, Colgate-Palmolive
mouthwashes maintains healthy teeth, gums Crest, Procter & Gamble
and fresh breath Oral-B, Procter & Gamble
Skin health
Zovirax topical cream and lip care to treat and prevent global Compeed, Johnson & Johnson
Abreva non-medicated patch the onset of cold sores Carmex, Carma Labs
Blistex, Blistex Incorporated
retail own label
Nutrition
Horlicks malted drinks and foods nutritional Indian sub-continent, Bournvita, Mondelez
beverages & food United Kingdom, Ireland Complan, Heinz257
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and government
relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation,
that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
The risks below are those that we believe could cause our actual Litigation and government investigations, including related provisions
results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we may make for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related
costs such as insurance premiums, could materially and adversely
We must adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and
affect our financial results.
regulations. These requirements apply to research and development,
manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in our
Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products and significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in
affect not only the cost of product development but also the time Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings,’ on pages 227 to 232.
required to reach the market and the likelihood of doing so
UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a
successfully.
company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties. A
Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental summary of the activities that the Group takes to manage each of
interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of our principal risks accompanies the description of each principal
a particular risk may change. Changes to certain regulatory regimes risk below. The principal risks and uncertainties are not listed in
may be substantial. Any change in, and any failure to comply with, order of significance.
applicable law and regulations could materially and adversely affect
our financial results.
Patient safety
Risk definition Individual Medical Officers within the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse Consumer Healthcare businesses and our substantial Safety and
events from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse issues
in a timely manner. reported for our products during the course of clinical studies. Once
a Group product is approved for marketing, we have an extensive
Risk impact
post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system. Information
The risk impact has the potential to compromise our ability to
on possible side effects of products is received from several sources
conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to
including unsolicited reports from healthcare professionals (HCPs)
ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk/
and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and scientific literature,
benefit profile of our products, including the completeness and
traditional media and social media. It is our policy that employees are
accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional studies/
required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or
analyses, as appropriate. This could lead to potential harm to
quality of our products. Each of our country managers is responsible
patients, reputational damage, product liability claims or other
for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the
litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as fines,
collection of safety information and reporting the information to the
penalties or loss of product authorisation.
relevant central safety department, in accordance with policy and
Context legal requirements.
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development
Information that changes the risk/benefit profile of one of our
of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
products will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate
products to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for use
and minimise the risk. Proposed actions are discussed with
by humans. Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the
regulatory authorities and can include modifying the prescribing
safety of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical
information, communications to physicians and other healthcare
trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when
providers, restrictions on product prescribing/availability to help
products are widely introduced into the marketplace. Questions
assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
about the safety of our products may be raised not only by our
In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to
ongoing safety surveillance and post-marketing studies but also by
withdraw the medicine from the market.
governmental agencies and third parties that may analyse publicly
available clinical trial results. Our Global Safety Board (GSB), comprising senior physicians and
representatives of supporting functions, is an integral component of
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability
the system. The GSB (including subsidiary boards dedicated to
lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for
Consumer Healthcare products and Vaccines) reviews the safety of
damages related to our products. Litigation, particularly in the US, is
investigational and our marketed products and has the authority to
inherently unpredictable. Class actions that seek to sweep together
stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial is not ethically or
all persons who take our products increase the potential liability.
scientifically justified in light of information that has emerged since
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently
the start of the trial.
asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent
potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially and In addition to the medical governance framework as described
adversely affect the Group’s financial results. above, we use several mechanisms to foster the early evaluation,
mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they arise and of potential
Mitigating activities
claims even before they occur. The goal of the programmes is to
The Chief Medical Officer (CMO), who is also the Medical Officer
create a culture of early identification and evaluation of risks and
for Pharmaceuticals, is responsible for medical governance under a
claims (actual or potential), in order to minimise liability and litigation.
global policy. Under that policy, safeguarding human subjects in our
clinical trials and patients who take our products is of paramount
importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating
and addressing matters of human safety.258
GSK Annual Report 2017
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Product quality
Risk definition This is an industry standard which incorporates quality concepts
Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices throughout the product lifecycle. The GSK PQS is augmented by a
(cGMP) or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the consolidation of the numerous regulatory requirements defined by
supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and markets across the world, which assures that it meets external
distribution of products. expectations for product quality in the markets supplied. The PQS is
routinely updated to ensure that it keeps pace with the evolving
Risk impact
external regulatory environment and with new scientific
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching
understanding of our products and processes. As part of our drive to
implications in terms of patient and consumer safety resulting in
continually improve the operational deployment of our PQS, we are
product launch delays, supply interruptions and product recalls.
making our policies and procedures simpler to understand and
This would have the potential to do damage to our reputation, as
implement, as well as adopting innovative tools to give a more
well as result in other regulatory, legal and financial consequences.
user-friendly experience.
Context
An extensive global network of quality and compliance professionals
Patients, consumers and HCPs trust the quality of our products.
is aligned with each business unit to provide oversight and assist
Product quality may be influenced by many factors including
with the delivery of quality performance and operational compliance,
product and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing
from site level to senior management level. Management oversight of
components, compliance with GMP, accuracy of labelling, reliability
those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of Quality
of the external supply chain, and the embodiment of an overarching
Councils and through an independent Chief Product Quality Officer
quality culture. The internal and external environment continues to
and Global Product Quality Office. We provide the Corporate
evolve as new products and new legislation are introduced.
Executive Team & Risk Oversight and Compliance Council with an
Critically, we are addressing the impact of Brexit on our supply
integrated assessment of Regulated Quality (GxP) performance. The
chain management and quality oversight between the UK and the
defined key performance indicators cover manufacturing practice,
EU and are developing and deploying appropriate contingency
clinical practice, pharmacovigilance practice, regulatory practice,
plans to avoid interruption of supply to patients.
drug safety assessment, and animal welfare.
Mitigating activities
We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and
We have developed and implemented a single Pharmaceutical
managing third party suppliers that provide materials which are used
Quality System (PQS) that defines the quality standards and systems
in finished products. Contract manufacturers making our products
for our businesses associated with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and
are expected to comply with GSK standards and are regularly
Consumer Healthcare products and clinical trial materials. This
audited to provide assurance that standards are met.
system has a broad scope and is applicable throughout the product
lifecycle from R&D to mature commercial supply. All staff members are regularly trained to ensure that cGMP
standards and behaviours based on our values are followed.
There is no single external quality standard or system that governs
Additionally, advocacy and communication programmes are routinely
the detailed global regulatory expectations for the quality of medicinal
deployed to ensure consistent messages are conveyed across the
products. Requirements are often complex and fragmented across
organisation, whether they originate from changes in regulation,
national and regional boundaries. Consequently, we have adopted
learnings from inspections, or regulatory submissions. There is a
the internationally recognised principles from the ‘ICH Q10:
continued emphasis on the value of quality performance metrics to
Pharmaceutical Quality Systems’ framework as the basis for the
facilitate improvement and foster a culture of ‘right first time’.
GSK PQS.
Financial controls and reporting
Risk definition Any changes in the substance or application of the governing tax
Failure to comply with current tax laws or incurring significant laws, failure to comply with such tax laws or significant losses due
losses due to treasury activities; failure to report accurate financial to treasury activities could materially and adversely affect our
information in compliance with accounting standards and applicable financial results.
legislation.
Context
Risk impact The Group is required by the laws of various jurisdictions to disclose
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and publicly its financial results and events that could materially affect
disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income the financial results of the Group. Regulators routinely review the
and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action and financial statements of listed companies for compliance with new,
could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Changes revised or existing accounting and regulatory requirements. The
in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters such as Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory
transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax requirements concerning our financial statements and disclosure of
credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief material information including any transactions relating to business
allowed on the interest on debt funding, could impact our effective restructuring such as acquisitions and divestitures. However, should
tax rate. Significant losses may arise from inconsistent application of we be subject to an investigation into potential non-compliance
treasury policies, transactional or settlement errors, or counterparty with accounting and disclosure requirements, this may lead to
defaults. restatements of previously reported results and significant penalties.259
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial controls and reporting continued
Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign There is shared accountability for financial results across our
exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis. businesses. Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional
These transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk. management and then reviewed with the Financial Controller and the
The Group’s effective tax rate reflects rates of tax in the jurisdictions Chief Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our Financial Controller
in which the Group operates that are both higher and lower than the and our CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and
UK rate and takes into account regimes that encourage innovation to evaluate performance to plan. Significant judgments are reviewed
and investment in science by providing tax incentives which, if and confirmed by senior management. Business reorganisations and
changed, could affect the Group’s tax rate. In addition, the worldwide newly acquired activities are integrated into risk assessments and
nature of our operations means that our intellectual property, R&D appropriate controls and reviews are applied.
and manufacturing operations are centred in a number of key
The Disclosure Committee reporting to the Board, reviews the
locations. A consequence of this is that our cross-border supply
Group’s quarterly results and Annual Report and determines
routes, necessary to ensure supplies of medicines into numerous
throughout the year, in consultation with its legal advisors, whether
end markets, can be complex and result in conflicting claims from tax
it is necessary to disclose publicly information about the Group
authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual countries. Tax
through Stock Exchange announcements. The Treasury Management
legislation itself is also complex and differs across the countries in
Group meets on a regular basis to seek to ensure that liquidity,
which we operate. As such, tax risk can also arise due to differences
interest rate, counterparty, foreign currency transaction and foreign
in the interpretation of such legislation. The tax charge included in our
currency translation risks are all managed in line with the conservative
financial statements is our best estimate of tax liability pending audits
approach as detailed in the associated risk strategies and policies
by tax authorities.
which have been adopted by the Board.
We expect there to be continued focus on tax reform in 2018 and
Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits approved by the
future years driven by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation
Board for both credit rating and individual counterparties. Oversight
& Development’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project and
of Treasury’s role in managing counterparty risk in line with agreed
European Commission initiatives including the use of fiscal state aid
policy is performed by a Corporate Compliance Officer, who
investigations. Together with domestic initiatives around the world,
operates independently of Treasury. Further details on mitigation
these may result in significant changes to established tax principles
of Treasury risks can be found on pages 213 and 214, Note 42,
and an increase in tax authority disputes. These, regardless of their
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. Tax risk is managed
merit or outcomes, can be costly, divert management attention
through robust internal policies, processes, training and compliance
and may adversely impact our reputation and relationship with key
programmes to ensure we have alignment across our business and
stakeholders.
meet our tax obligations. We seek to maintain open, positive
Mitigating activities relationships with governments and tax authorities worldwide and we
We maintain a control environment designed to identify material welcome constructive debate on taxation policy. We monitor
errors in financial reporting and disclosure. The design and operating government debate on tax policy in our key jurisdictions to deal
effectiveness of key financial reporting controls are regularly tested proactively with any potential future changes in tax law. We engage
by management and via Independent Business Monitoring. This advisors and legal counsel to confirm the implications for our
provides us with the assurance that controls over key financial business of tax legislation such as the recently enacted US Tax Cuts
reporting and disclosure processes have operated effectively. A and Jobs Act. Where appropriate we are active in providing relevant
minimum standard control set has been implemented, whereby all business input to tax policy makers. Significant decisions are
Finance personnel, irrespective of size or geographical location, are submitted for consideration to the Tax Governance Board which
required to apply and ensure they are monitored. Our Global Finance meets quarterly and comprises senior personnel from across the
Risk Management and Controls Centre of Excellence provides extra GSK’s Finance division.
support to large Group organisations undergoing transformation
Our tax affairs are managed on a global basis through a co-ordinated
such as system deployment or significant business transformation.
team of tax professionals led by the Global Head of Tax who works
We have also added operational resources to ensure processes and
closely with the business. They are suitably qualified for the roles they
controls are maintained during business transformation, the upgrade
perform and we support their training needs in order that they
of our financial systems and processes. Additional risk mitigation
continue to be able to provide up to date technical advice. We submit
has been introduced by amending the programme timelines of
tax returns according to statutory time limits and engage with tax
system upgrades.
authorities to seek to ensure our tax affairs are current, entering
We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial arrangements such as Continuous Audit Programmes and Advance
reporting requirements by working with our external auditors and Pricing Agreements where appropriate. These agreements provide
legal advisors. long-term certainty for both tax authorities and for us over the tax
treatment of our business. In exceptional cases where matters
cannot be settled by agreement with tax authorities, we may have
to resolve disputes through formal appeals or other proceedings.260
GSK Annual Report 2017
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Anti-bribery and corruption
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure of GSK employees, consultants and third parties to comply Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment to
with our Anti-bribery & corruption (ABAC) principles and standards, zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk. In light of the
as well as with all applicable legislation. complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we constantly evolve
our oversight of activities and data, reinforce to our workforce clear
Risk impact
expectations regarding acceptable behaviours, and maintain regular
Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated
communications between the centre and local markets.
persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil and
criminal liability and may compromise the Group’s ability to supply its We have an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to ensure
products under certain government contracts. In addition to legal compliance with our ABAC policies and mitigate the risk of bribery
penalties, a failure to prevent bribery through complying with ABAC and corruption. It builds on our values and business standards to
legislation and regulations could have substantial implications for the form a comprehensive and practical approach to compliance, and is
reputation of the company, the credibility of senior leaders, and an flexible to the evolving nature of our business.
erosion of investor confidence in our governance and risk
Our ABAC programme is built on best in class principles and is
management.
subject to ongoing review and development. It provides us with the
Context basis from which we seek to manage the risk from top down and
We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global bottom up. For example, the programme comprises top-level
business operations. In some markets, the government structure and commitment from the Board of Directors and leadership and a global
the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on our risk assessment to enable targeted intervention and compliance
bribery and corruption risk exposure. In addition to the global nature monitoring activities. The programme is underpinned by a global
of our business, the healthcare sector by its very nature maintains ABAC policy and written standards that address commercial and
relationships with government bodies, is highly competitive and other practices that give rise to ABAC risk and ongoing training and
subject to regulation. This increases the instances where we are communications. In addition, the programme mandates enhanced
exposed to activities and interactions with bribery and corruption risk. controls over interactions with government officials and during
business development transactions. We provide mandatory periodic
The Group has been subject to a number of ABAC inquiries. We
ABAC training to our staff and relevant third parties in accordance
reached a resolution with the US authorities in 2016 regarding their
with their roles, responsibilities and the risks they face.
ABAC inquiry, following which we are subject to a self-monitoring
arrangement until September 2018. Government investigations Programme governance is provided by the ABAC Governance
regarding our China and other business operations are ongoing. Board which includes representation from key functional areas and
These investigations are discussed further in Note 45, ‘Legal business units. We have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for
proceedings’. the implementation and evolution of the programme in response
to developments in the internal and external environment. This is
complemented with independent oversight and assurance
undertaken by the Audit & Assurance and Independent Business
Monitoring teams.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other large
multinational companies and use external expertise to drive
improvements in the programme.261
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Commercial practices
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to engage in commercial activities that are consistent with the Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure we achieve our
letter and spirit of legal, industry, or the Group’s requirements relating mission of helping people do more, feel better and live longer.
to marketing and communications about our medicines and We continue to strive for new product launches that are competitive
associated therapeutic areas; appropriate interactions with HCPs and resourced effectively. We also strive to have a healthy proportion
and patients; and legitimate and transparent transfer of value. of the Group’s sales ratio attributable to new product or innovation
sales.
Risk impact
Failure to manage risks related to commercial practices could This innovation helps us defray the effect, for example, of downward
materially and adversely affect our ability to grow a diversified global price pressure in major markets, declining emerging market growth
business and deliver more products of value for patients and and negative foreign exchange impact. Establishing new products
consumers. Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and that are priced to balance expectations of patients and consumers,
regulations may result in governmental investigation, regulatory action HCPs, payers, shareholders, and the community enables us to
and legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental maintain a strong global business and remain relevant to the needs of
and private plaintiffs which could result in government sanctions, and patients and consumers. Our values and behaviours provide a guide
criminal and/or financial penalties. Failure to provide accurate and for how we lead and make decisions. We constantly strive to do the
complete information related to our products may result in incomplete right thing and deliver quality products and ensure supply is
awareness of the risk/benefit profile of our products and possibly sustained to meet customer needs and demand requirements,
suboptimal treatment of patients and consumers. seeking to ensure our actions reflect our values, behaviours and the
mission of our company.
Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values could
also result in reputational harm and dilute trust established with We have taken action to enhance and improve standards and
external stakeholders. procedures for promotional interactions including an increased focus
on digital marketing, based on our values of transparency, respect,
Context
integrity and patient focus. We have policies and standards
We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly
governing promotional activities undertaken by us or on our behalf.
competitive and highly regulated. Our competitors may make
All of these activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high
significant product innovations and technical advances and may
ethical, regulatory, and industry standards. Where local standards
intensify price competition. In light of this competitive environment,
differ from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
continued development of commercially viable new products and the
We have harmonised policies and procedures to guide above
development of additional uses for existing products that reflect
country commercial practices processes as well as clarified
insights which help ensure those products address the needs of
applicable standards for operations in the various markets in which
patients/consumers, HCPs, and payers are critical to achieve our
we operate. Each business unit has adopted the Internal Control
strategic objectives.
Framework to support the assessment and management of its risks.
As do other pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer companies, we Commercial practices activities have appropriate monitoring
face downward price pressure in major markets, declining emerging programmes and oversight from both business unit Risk
market growth, and negative foreign exchange impact. Management and Compliance Boards and Country Executive
Developing new Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Boards that manage risks across in-country business activities.
products is a costly, lengthy and an uncertain process. A product Where in the past we have fallen below our own or any other
candidate may fail at any stage, including after significant economic regulatory or industry standards, we have sought to improve both the
and human resources have been invested. Our competitors’ framework and culture for our compliance processes.
products or pricing strategies or any failure on our part to develop All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and
commercially successful products, or to develop additional uses for approved according to our policies and standards, and conducted in
existing products, could materially and adversely affect our ability to accordance with local laws and regulations, to seek to ensure that
achieve our strategic objectives. these materials and activities fairly represent the products or services
We are committed to the ethical and responsible commercialisation of the Group. When necessary, we have disciplined (up to and
of our products to support our mission to improve the quality of including termination) employees who have engaged in misconduct
human life by enabling people to do more, feel better, and live longer. and have broadened our ability to claw back remuneration from
To accomplish this mission, we engage the healthcare community in senior management in the event of misconduct.
various ways to provide important information about our medicines. We have evolved our commercial operating model, embedding
Promotion of approved products seeks to ensure that HCPs globally industry leading changes in the compensation model for sales
have access to information they need, that patients and consumers professionals and their managers who interact with HCPs. These
have access to the information and products they need and that changes eliminated rewards based on individual sales or market
products are prescribed, recommended or used in a manner that share of prescription products in individuals’ territories in favour of
provides the maximum healthcare benefit to patients and consumers. rewards based on the quality of the individuals’ interactions with
We are committed to communicating information related to our HCPs. We now allow fair market value payments to be made by
approved products in a responsible, legal, and ethical manner. GSK to expert researchers and practitioners to speak about the
science behind our products, disease and clinical practice in a
limited number of GSK sponsored, medical-led meetings.262
GSK Annual Report 2017
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Research practices
Risk definition Scientific engagement (SE), defined as the interaction and
Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound preclinical and exchange of information between GSK and external communities to
clinical research. In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities advance scientific and medical understanding, including the
that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or appropriate development and use of our products, is an essential
the Group’s requirements, and failure to secure adequate patent part of scientific discourse. Such non-promotional engagement with
protection for GSK’s products. external stakeholder groups is vital to GSK’s mission and necessary
for scientific and medical advance. SE activities are essential but
Risk impact
present legal, regulatory, and reputational risk if the sharing of data,
The impacts of the risk include harm to human subjects, reputational
invited media coverage or payments to HCPs have, or are perceived
damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our
to have, promotional intent.
products, governmental investigation, legal proceedings brought
against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs (product A wide variety of biological materials are used by GSK in discovery,
liability suits and claims for damages), loss of revenue due to research and development phases. Through the Convention on
inadequate patent protection or inability to supply GSK products, Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Nagoya Protocol, the
and regulatory action such as fines, penalties, or loss of product international community has established a global framework
authorisation. Any of these consequences could materially and regulating access to, and use of, genetic resources of non-human
adversely affect our financial results and cause loss of trust from our origin in R&D. We support the principles of access and benefit
customers and patients. sharing to genetic resources as outlined in the CBD and the Nagoya
Protocol, recognising the importance of appropriate, effective and
Context
proportionate implementation measures at national and regional
Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns. While we
levels.
attempt to address this proactively, animal studies remain a vital part
of our research. In many cases, they are the only method that can be In addition, any loss of patent protection in a market for GSK’s
used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living products developed through our R&D, including reducing the
body before it is tested in humans, and they are generally mandated availability or scope of patent rights or compulsory licensing (in
by regulators and ethically imperative. Animal research can provide which a government forces a manufacturer to license its patents for
critical information about the causes of diseases and how they specific products to a competitor), could materially and adversely
develop. Nonetheless, we are continually seeking ways in which we affect our financial results in that market. Absence of adequate
can minimise our use of animals in research, whilst complying with patent or data exclusivity protection, which could lead to, for
regulatory requirements. example, competition from manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical
products, could limit the opportunity to rely on such markets for
Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess
future sales growth for our products, which could also materially and
and demonstrate an investigational product’s efficacy and safety or
adversely impact our financial results. Following expiration of certain
further evaluate the product once it has been approved for
intellectual property rights, a generic manufacturer may lawfully
marketing. We also work with human biological samples. These
produce a generic version of a product, and generic drug
samples are fundamental to the discovery, development and safety
manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to market generic
monitoring of our products.
versions of many of our most important products prior to the
The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of the expiration of our patents. Introduction of generic products typically
research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and leads to a rapid and dramatic loss of sales and reduces our
management, analysis, reporting and storage and retrieval. Our revenues and margins for our proprietary products. Moreover, in the
research data is governed by legislation and regulatory US, it has become common for patent infringement actions to
requirements. Research data and supporting documents are core prompt claims that anti-trust laws have been violated during the
components at various stages of pipeline progression decision- prosecution of the patent or during litigation involving the defence of
making and form the content of regulatory submissions. Poor data that patent.
integrity can compromise our research efforts and negatively impact
company reputation.
There are innate complexities and interdependencies required for
regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and
development footprint. Continually changing and increasingly
stringent submission requirements continue to increase the
complexity of worldwide product registration.263
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Research practices continued
Mitigating activities We established an Access and Benefit Sharing Centre of
We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Excellence to oversee applicable requirements and enforcement
Strategy (OAWES), led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and measures for the acquisition and use of genetic material of non-
Strategy, that ensures the humane and responsible care of animals human origin in scope of the Nagoya Protocol.
and increases the knowledge and application of non-animal
R&D maintains and controls pre-publication procedures to guard
alternatives. The OAWES provides a framework of animal welfare
against public disclosure in advance of filing patent applications. In
governance, promotes application of 3Rs (replacement, refinement
addition, because loss of patent protection can occur due to lack of
and reduction of animals in research), conducts quality assessments
data integrity in preparing patent application data and information,
and develops and deploys strategies on animal model reproducibility
legal experts collaborate with R&D to support the review process for
and translatability.
new patent applications.
The Chief Medical Officer oversees the following enterprise Medical
The Research Practices risk is now aligned with a new Enterprise
Governance Boards:
framework that seeks to ensure strengthened governance across
– The Human Subject Research Board is in place to provide the R&D businesses in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
oversight for the management of clinical trials sponsored and Healthcare. Under the leadership of the Chief Research Practices
supported by us to ensure they conform to ethical, medical and Officer, management of the risk takes a pragmatic approach to
scientific standards. information sharing, streamlining risk identification and escalation
while ensuring ownership stays at the business unit level and allows
– The Data Disclosure Board provides oversight for disclosure of our
for a proportional risk treatment.
sponsored and supported clinical trials. We make information
available on our clinical studies, including summaries of the results
– whether positive or negative. We were the first company to
publish clinical study reports that form the basis of submissions to
regulatory agencies and we have publicly posted more than 2,300
clinical study reports in addition to more than 6,300 study result
summaries. Detailed and appropriately protected patient-level data
from approximately 2,000 clinical studies can be requested and
accessed through clinicalstudydatarequest.com.
– Specific accountability and authorisation for SE is overseen by
the Scientific Engagement and Promotional Practices Board.
This Board is responsible for oversight of applicable policies and
seeking to ensure the highest level of integrity and continuous
development of SE.
We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management
(HBSM) governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and
lawful acquisition and management of human biological samples.
Our global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and
provides an experienced group to support internal sample
custodians on best practice.
It remains an important priority to enhance our data integrity
controls. Data Integrity Committees are in place to provide oversight
and a Data Integrity Quality Assurance team conducts assessments
to provide independent business monitoring of our internal controls
for R&D activities.
The Chief Regulatory Officer chairs the Regulatory Governance
Board which serves as the global regulatory risk management and
compliance board, promoting compliance with regulatory
requirements and procedures and oversees Group-wide written
standards for cross business regulatory processes.264
GSK Annual Report 2017
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Third party oversight risk
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight over third Each business unit leadership team retains ultimate accountability for
party relationships and failure of third parties to meet their managing third party interactions and risks. When working with third
contractual, regulatory, confidentiality or other obligations. parties, our employees are expected to manage external interactions
and commitments responsibly. This expectation is embedded in our
Risk impact
values and Code of Conduct. It is our responsibility that all activities
Failure to adequately manage third party relationships could result in
carried out on our behalf are performed safely and in compliance with
business disruption and exposure to risks ranging from sub-optimal
applicable laws and our values, standards and Code of Conduct.
contractual terms and conditions, to severe business and legal
sanctions and/or significant reputational damage. Any of these To guide and enforce our global principles for interactions with third
consequences could materially and adversely affect our business parties we have in place a policy framework applicable to buying
operations and financial results. goods and services, managing our external spend, paying and
working with our third parties. This policy framework applies to all
Context
employees and complementary workers worldwide. The framework is
Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an integral
complemented by technical and local standards designed to ensure
part of the solution to meeting our business objectives. We rely on
alignment with the nature of third party interactions, such as good
third parties, including suppliers, advisors, distributors, individual
manufacturing practice and adherence to local laws and regulations.
contractors, licensees, and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology
Independent Business Monitoring of key financial and operational
collaboration partners for discovery, manufacture, and marketing of
controls is in place and is supplemented by periodic checks from the
our products and for supporting other important business processes.
company’s independent Audit & Assurance function.
These business relationships present a material risk. For example, we
Continuous monitoring and performance of third parties is enhanced
share critical and sensitive information such as marketing plans, clinical
through the Third Party Oversight Programme managed through the
data, and employee data with specific third parties who are conducting
Global Ethics and Compliance organisation. The programme takes
the relevant outsourced business activities. Inadequate protection or
an enterprise-wide view of third party related risks, has strengthened
misuse of this information by third parties could have significant
risk assessment, contractual terms and due diligence efforts on third
business impact. Similarly, we use distributors and agents in a range of
parties and improved the overall management of our third party risks
activities such as promotion and tendering which have inherent risks
through the lifecycle of the third party engagement.
such as inappropriate promotion or corruption. Insufficient internal
compliance and controls by the distributors could affect our reputation.
These risks are further increased by the complexities of working with
large numbers of third parties across a diverse geographical spread.
Environment, health & safety and sustainability
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to manage environment, health & safety and sustainability The Corporate Executive Team (CET) is responsible for EHS&S
(EHS&S) risks in line with our objectives and policies and with governance under a global policy. Under that policy, the CET seeks
relevant laws and regulations. to ensure there is a control framework in place to manage the risks,
impacts and legal compliance issues that relate to EHS&S and for
Risk impact
assigning responsibility to senior managers for providing and
Failure to manage EHS&S risks could lead to significant harm to
maintaining those controls. Individual managers seek to ensure that
people, the environment and communities in which we operate, fines,
the EHS&S control framework is effective and well implemented in
failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements,
their respective business area and that it is fully compliant with all
litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the Group’s reputation,
applicable laws and regulations, adequately resourced, maintained,
which could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
communicated, and monitored. Additionally, each employee is
Context personally responsible for ensuring that all applicable local standard
We are subject to health, safety and environmental laws of various operating procedures are followed by them and expected to take
jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect people, the responsibility for EHS&S matters.
environment, and the communities in which we operate, as well as
Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our refreshed
potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites. We have also
Global EHS&S standard which supports our EHS&S policy and our
been identified as a potentially responsible party under the US
objective to discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
products without harming people or the environment. In addition to
Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to our
the design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment, we
use or ownership of such sites in the US. Failure to manage these
operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards where
environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory
practicable and protect employees’ health and well-being. Through
action and additional remedial costs that may materially and
our continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability we
adversely affect our financial results. See Note 45 to the financial
have reduced our value chain carbon intensity per pack, water
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of the
consumption and waste generation. We actively manage our
environmental related proceedings in which we are involved. We
environmental remediation obligations and seek to ensure practices
routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters.
are environmentally sustainable and compliant. Our EHS&S
performance results are shared externally each year in our
Responsible Business Supplement.265
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Information protection
Risk definition We aim to apply industry best practices as part of our information
The risk to GSK business activities if information becomes disclosed security policies, processes and technologies and invest in strategies
to those not authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security threat
available or are corrupted, typically because of cybersecurity threats, landscape. This will include suitable levels of cyber-risk insurance
although accident or malicious insider action may be contributory cover in future.
causes.
Nevertheless, cyber threats are growing and evolving. They
This also includes the risk of failure to collect, secure, and use increasingly involve highly-resourced threat actors such as nation-
personal information in accordance with data privacy laws. states and organised criminals. Combined with the size and
complexity of our IT systems and those of our supply chain partners
Risk impact
(including outsourced operations), this means that our systems
Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and
and information have been and are expected to continue to be,
information may result in loss of commercial or strategic advantage
the subject of cyber-attacks of various types.
and could materially affect our ongoing business operations, such
as scientific research, clinical trials and manufacturing and supply We are enhancing our approach to data privacy compliance, in part
chain activities. Failure to comply with data privacy laws could lead to comply with the new EU General Data Protection Regulation
to adverse impact on individuals (for example financial loss, distress (GDPR), by deploying an enterprise-wide privacy programme,
or prejudice). In both cases, damage to our reputation, litigation, or launched in 2017 and scheduled for deployment in 2018.
other business disruption including regulatory sanction could occur,
This will involve greater standardisation and additional expert
which could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
resources to support the business. New standards and controls
Context will enable us to better to address data privacy at the outset of
We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as corporate any business process. These changes also prepare us for the
strategic plans, intellectual property, manufacturing systems and introduction of GDPR in May 2018.
trade secrets. There is the potential that our computer systems or
All employees are required to complete training on privacy and
information may be exposed to misuse or unauthorised disclosure.
the appropriate handling and maintaining of personal information.
We believe that the cyber security incidents that we have Programme governance is provided by the Privacy Governance
experienced to date have not resulted in significant disruptions to Board, which includes representation from key functional areas.
our operations, and have not had a significant adverse effect on our We have a dedicated Privacy team, responsible for the
results of operations, or on third parties. However, as the threats implementation and evolution of the programme in response
evolve we cannot provide assurance that our significant efforts in to developments in the internal and external environment.
protecting and monitoring our systems and information will always
be successful in preventing compromise or disruption in future.
All parts of our business process personal information. The use of
this information is critical to our operations and innovation, including
the development and sale of our products, as well as management
of our employees.
New and evolving laws and regulations, such as the European Union
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), are likely to bring
increased scrutiny of our data management.
Mitigating activities
We have a global information protection policy and accompanying
information technology standards and processes that are supported
through a dedicated team and programme of activity. Our Information
Protection function provides strategy, direction, and oversight,
including active monitoring of cyber security, while enhancing our
global information security capabilities, through an ongoing
programme of investment that is in its fifth year.
We assess changes in our information protection risk environment
through briefings by government agencies, subscription to
commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing with
other pharmaceutical businesses and cross-industry bodies. Such
changes are regularly reviewed by our Executive team and our Board
and suitable adjustments agreed.266
GSK Annual Report 2017
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Supply continuity and crisis management
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product; Our supply chain model is designed to ensure the supply, quality and
inability to respond effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to security of our products globally, as far as possible. We closely
recover and sustain critical operations, including key supply chains. monitor, through the Supply Chain Governance Committees, the
inventory status and delivery of our products with the aim to ensure
Risk impact
that customers have the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer
We recognise that failure to supply our products can adversely
Healthcare products they need. Improved links between commercial
impact consumers and patients who rely on them. A material
forecasting and manufacturing made possible by our core
interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes
commercial cycle should, over time, reduce the risk associated with
could expose us to litigation or regulatory action and financial
demand fluctuations and any impact on our ability to supply or the
penalties that could adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
cost of write-offs where products exceed their expiry date. Each
The Group’s international operations, and those of its partners,
node of the supply chain is periodically reviewed to ensure adequate
expose our workforce, facilities, operations and information
safety stock, while balancing working capital in our end-to-end
technology to potential disruption from natural events (e.g. storm or
supply chain. Particular attention is placed on mitigating supply risks
earthquake), man-made events (e.g. civil unrest, terrorism), and global
associated with medically critical and high-revenue products.
emergencies (e.g. Ebola outbreak, Flu pandemic). It is important that
we have robust crisis management and recovery plans in place to We routinely monitor the compliance of manufacturing external
manage such events. suppliers to identify and manage risks in our supply base. Where
practical, we minimise our dependence on single sources of supply
Context
for critical items. Where alternative sourcing arrangements are not
Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by
possible, our inventory strategy aims to protect the supply chain from
various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to
unanticipated disruption.
operate. Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or by
suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or We continue to implement anti-counterfeit systems such as product
regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption of serialisation in accordance with emerging supply chain requirements
supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension of around the world.
manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing or
A corporate policy requires each business unit and functional area
logistics issues.
head to ensure effective crisis management and business continuity
We rely on materials and services provided by third party suppliers to plans are in place that include authorised response and recovery
make our products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear communication
(API), antigens, intermediates, commodities, and components for the routes, before any business disruption occurs.
manufacture and packaging of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and
Corporate Security supports the business by: coordinating crisis
Consumer Healthcare products. Some of the third party services
management and business continuity training; facilitating simulation
procured, such as services provided by contract manufacturing and
exercises; assessing our preparedness and recovery capability; and
clinical research organisations to support development of key
providing assurance oversight of our central repository of plans
products, are important to ensure continuous operation of our
supporting our critical business processes. Each business unit has a
businesses.
governance board which performs risk oversight and monitoring
Although we undertake risk mitigation we recognise that certain including identifying new and emerging threats. We have a
events could nevertheless still result in delays or service interruptions. coordinated approach to evaluate and manage the implications for
We use effective crisis management and business continuity our business arising from Brexit. Our approach to Brexit is set out
planning to provide for the health and safety of our people and to on page 55.
minimise impact to us, by maintaining functional operations following
These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and
a natural or man-made disaster, or a public health emergency.
response capability is maintained. We also develop and maintain
partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity
Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk
Reduction, which helps improve our business continuity initiatives in
disaster-prone areas and supports the development of community
resilience to disasters.267
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholder information
Share capital and control
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares held Share buy-back programme
in Treasury as at 31 December 2017 can be found in Note 33 to the The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares
financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’. under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association. The power
under Article 9 and the authority for the company to make purchases
Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities which are
and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
sought on an annual basis at our Annual General Meeting (AGM).
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS
Any shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or held as
represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt and
Treasury shares or used for satisfying share options and grants under
where it is listed refer to Note 31 to the financial statements,
Group employee share plans.
‘Net debt’.
Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive
to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority
dividends (when declared), the company’s Annual Report, to attend
renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2017, when the
and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies
company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just under
and to exercise voting rights.
492 million shares. Details of shares purchased, those cancelled,
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the holding, those held as Treasury shares and those subsequently transferred
of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements to obtain approval from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Group’s employee share
prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares or ADS carry any special plans are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements, ‘Share
rights with regard to control of the company and there are no capital and share premium account’.
restrictions on voting rights. Major shareholders have the same
In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
voting rights per share as all other shareholders. There are no
considers the development of free cash flow during the year. Given
known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a
the impact of the sustained strength of Sterling on free cash flow,
person other than the holder of the shares and no known
the company suspended its share repurchase programme during
agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
2014. No shares were purchased during the financial years ended
Shares acquired through the Group’s employee share plans rank 2015, 2016 or 2017.
equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make
The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have
any market purchases in 2018. The company will review the
waived their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts.
potential for future share buy-backs during 2019 in line with
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders its usual annual cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force
Market capitalisation
from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, decrees
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import or export of
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2017 was £65.57 billion.
capital or affecting the remittance of dividends or other payments to
At that date, GSK was the sixth largest company by market
holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK.
capitalisation in the FTSE index.
Similarly, other than certain economic sanctions which may be in
force from time to time, there are no limitations relating only to Share price
2017 2016 2015
non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s £ £ £
Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote At 1 January 15.62 13.73 13.76
in respect of, the company’s shares.
At 31 December 13.23 15.62 13.73
Interests in voting rights (Decrease)/increase (15.3)% 13.8% (0.2)%
Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no High during the year 17.22 17.23 16.42
persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company. Low during the year 12.76 13.44 12.38
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial
Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Disclosure Guidance and Transparency The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. The
Rules (DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and company’s share price decreased by 15.3% in 2017. This compares
on the company’s website, www.gsk.com. with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 7.6% during the year.
The company had received notifications in accordance with the The share price on 2 March 2018 was £12.90.
FCA’s DTRs of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights
in the company’s issued share capital:
UK£ US$
31 December 2017 2 March 2018 18 75
*Percentage *Percentage 17 70
No. of of issued No. of of issued
shares capital (%) shares capital (%) 16 65
BlackRock, Inc 348,457,982 7.03 338,195,351 6.82 15 60
14 55
* Percentage of Ordinary shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares.
13 50
We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own 12 45
shares during the period under review, with the exception of those
11 40
transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Group’s
10 35
employee share plans.
09 30
31/12/14 31/12/15 31/12/16 31/12/17
UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)268
GSK Annual Report 2017
Shareholder information continued
Share capital and control continued
Nature of trading market
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
Pence per share US dollars per share
High Low High Low
March 2018* 1304 1290 36.22 35.97
February 2018 1325 1243 37.70 35.49
January 2018 1364 1320 39.04 36.40
December 2017 1323 1276 35.58 34.66
November 2017 1363 1280 36.48 34.81
October 2017 1536 1358 41.10 36.23
September 2017 1533 1452 40.65 39.89
Quarter ended 31 December 2017 1536 1276 41.10 34.66
Quarter ended 30 September 2017 1630 1452 42.77 38.68
Quarter ended 30 June 2017 1722 1550 44.37 40.68
Quarter ended 31 March 2017 1691 1520 42.73 38.72
Quarter ended 31 December 2016 1723 1459 43.44 37.39
Quarter ended 30 September 2016 1712 1592 45.49 42.50
Quarter ended 30 June 2016 1605 1388 43.47 40.04
Quarter ended 31 March 2016 1439 1345 42.05 38.54
Year ended 31 December 2017 1722 1276 44.37 34.66
Year ended 31 December 2016 1723 1345 45.49 37.39
Year ended 31 December 2015 1642 1238 48.81 37.56
Year ended 31 December 2014 1691 1324 56.66 41.30
Year ended 31 December 2013 1782 1359 53.68 43.93
* to 2 March 2018
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2017
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 81,508 71.27 0.53 28,558,492
1,001 to 5,000 25,832 22.59 1.04 55,701,236
5,001 to 100,000 5,909 5.17 1.64 88,042,723
100,001 to 1,000,000 758 0.66 4.92 264,426,210
Over 1,000,000 362 0.31 91.87 4,935,825,159
114,369 100.00 100.00 5,372,553,820
Held by
Nominee companies 5,417 4.74 63.60 3,416,723,552
Investment and trust companies 21 0.02 0.08 4,444,309
Insurance companies 4 0.00 0.00 1,894
Individuals and other corporate bodies 108,925 95.24 11.25 604,455,960
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 0.00 17.35 932,322,155
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 7.72 414,605,950
BNY Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s ADS, which are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s ADS
programme, which is managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY (Nominees) Limited. At 2 March 2018, BNY (Nominees)
Limited held 931,975,461 Ordinary Shares representing 18.79% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares) at that date.
At 2 March 2018, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 1,007 with holdings of 1,093,635 Ordinary Shares, and the
number of registered holders of ADS was 465,987,730 with holdings of 22,275 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS were held
by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not representative of the number
of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.269
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Dividends
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return cash to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends remain an
essential component of total shareholder return and GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders. The company aims to
distribute regular dividend payments that will be determined primarily with reference to the free cash flow generated by the business after
funding the investment necessary to support the Group’s future growth.
The Board intends to maintain the dividend for 2018 at the current level of 80p per share, subject to any material change in the external
environment or performance expectations. Over time, as free cash flow strengthens, it intends to build free cash flow cover of the annual
dividend to a target range of 1.25-1.50x, before returning the dividend to growth. Details of the dividends declared, the amounts and the
payment dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
Dividends per share Dividend calendar
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS for the Ex-dividend
last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into US dollars at Quarter date Record date Payment date
applicable exchange rates. Q4 2017 22 February 2018 23 February 2018 12 April 2018
Q1 2018 10 May 2018 11 May 2018 12 July 2018
Year Dividend pence US$
Q2 2018 9 August 2018 10 August 2018 11 October 2018
2017 80 –1
Q3 2018 15 November 2018 16 November 2018 10 January 2019
2016 80 2.00
2015 Special* 20 0.57
2015 80 2.37
2014 80 2.59
2013 78 2.47
1 The Q4 2017 interim ordinary dividend receivable by ADS holders will be calculated
based on the exchange rate on 12 April 2018. An annual fee of $0.02 per ADS
(or $0.005 per ADS per quarter) will be charged by the Depository. The cumulative
dividend receivable by ADS holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2017 was $1.51.
* The 2015 special dividend related to the return of part of the net cash proceeds from
the Novartis transaction completed in March 2015. This was paid with the fourth quarter
ordinary dividend for 2015.
Financial calendar
Results announcements
Event Date
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
Quarter 1 Results announcement April 2018
and are available on its news service. They are also sent to the
Annual General Meeting May 2018
US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued
Quarter 2 Results announcement July 2018
to the media and made available on our website.
Quarter 3 Results announcement October 2018
Financial reports
Preliminary/Quarter 4 Results announcement February 2019
The company publishes an Annual Report which is made available
Annual Report publication February/March 2019
on our website from the date of publication. Shareholders may
Annual Report distribution March 2019 elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by
Information about the company, including the share price, is available
email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
on our website at www.gsk.com. Information made available on the
www.shareview.co.uk.
website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK (see
page 272 for the contact details).270
GSK Annual Report 2017
Shareholder information continued
Annual General Meeting 2018
2.30pm (UK time) on 3 May 2018 ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting should contact BNY
The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Mellon, as Depositary, to request a proxy appointment. This will
London SW1P 3EE. enable them to attend and vote on the business to be transacted.
ADS holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the way in which the
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
shares represented by their ADS should be voted by completing and
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business,
returning the voting card provided by the Depositary.
there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of
the Group and its future development. There will be an opportunity Documents on display
for questions to be asked to the Board. Chairmen of the Board’s The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’ service
Committees will take questions relating to those Committees. contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between
Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries (and any side
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange
letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements) are
with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of
available for inspection at the company’s registered office and will
their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
be made available for inspection at the AGM.
Tax information for shareholders
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax Taxation of capital gains
consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens of the UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the
UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete analysis of all the disposal of shares or ADS.
possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of
For disposals by individuals from the 2016/17 UK tax year onwards,
these securities. It is intended only as a general guide. Holders are
a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS will be
advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax
taxed at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after all allowable
consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares
deductions, the individual’s taxable income for the year exceeds the
or ADS and the consequences under state and local tax laws in
basic rate income tax limit. Note this is following the use of any
the US and the implications of the current UK/US tax conventions.
exceptions available to the individual taxpayer such as the annual
US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of the exempt amount.
underlying shares for the purposes of the current US/UK double
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation allowance
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent that such gains
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention),
arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance may reduce a chargeable
and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
gain but will not create an allowable loss. For assets acquired on or
(the Code).
before 1 January 2018, legislation in the Finance Bill (No. 2) 2017-19
UK shareholders freezes the level of indexation allowance that is given in calculating a
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds company’s chargeable gains at the value that would apply to the
shares as capital assets. disposal of an asset in December 2017. For assets acquired from
1 January 2018 onwards, legislation in the Finance Bill (No. 2)
Taxation of dividends
2017-19 removes any indexation allowance on disposal.
For UK tax years from 2016/17 UK resident individuals are entitled to
a dividend tax allowance of up to £5,000, so that the first £5,000 of Inheritance tax
dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax. This allowance will Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be liable
reduce to £2,000 from the 2018/19 UK tax year onwards. Dividends to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS. Tax may
in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for basic rate be charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholder’s
taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of lifetime gift or
rate taxpayers. other disposal at less than full market value. In the case of a bequest
on death, tax may be charged on the value of the shares at the
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note
date of the shareholder’s death. If such a gift or other disposal
that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally entitled to
were subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax,
exemption from corporation tax.
the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for tax
paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK.271
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Tax information for shareholders continued
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the US
UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%. Some
certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate of types of dividends are automatically excluded from being qualified
0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in the case of stamp duty) of the dividends, even if they meet the other requirements. These include
consideration for the transfer. Notwithstanding this, provided that an (but are not limited to):
instrument is executed in pursuance of the agreement that gave rise
1. Capital gains distributions
to the charge to SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six
years of the agreement (including being stamped as exempt) any 2. Dividends on bank deposits
SDRT charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already 3. D ividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock
been paid will be repaid. Ownership Plan (ESOP)
US shareholders
4. Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or
resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that is US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified dividends
otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in may vary and would be assessed in addition to the federal tax rates
respect of the shares or ADS) that holds shares or ADS as capital communicated above.
assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not
Taxation of capital gains
hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or
The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders other disposal of shares or ADS. Such gains will be long-term capital
that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders) if
entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, the shares or ADS were held for more than one year, from the date
persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an integrated investment the shares were vested/released. Short-term capital gains can be
(including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADS and one or more subject to taxation of rates of up to 40.8%, whereas long-term capital
other positions, and persons that own (directly or indirectly) 10% gains may be subject to rates of up to 23.8%. State and local tax
or more of the voting stock of the company, nor does it address tax rates on capital gains may also apply.
treatment that may be applicable as a result of international income
Information reporting and backup withholding
tax treaties.
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
Taxation of dividends ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be
dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for the dividend subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation
received deduction allowed to US corporations. Dividends on ADS or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification number
are payable in US dollars; dividends on shares are payable in and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred. Non-US
Sterling. Dividends paid in Sterling will be included in income in the holders generally are not subject to information reporting or backup
US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on withholding, but may be required to provide a certification of their
the day the dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain non-US status in connection with payments received. Any amounts
exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual eligible withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US
US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 23.8% federal income tax liability provided the required information is
in respect of qualified dividends. A qualified dividend as defined by furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a dividend that meets the
Estate and gift taxes
following criteria:
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
1. Must be issued by a US corporation, a corporation incorporated generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
in a US possession, or a corporation that is eligible for the
Stamp duty
benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty deemed
UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
satisfactory, as published by the IRS.
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS custodian or
2. T he dividends are not listed with the IRS as dividends that do depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
not qualify. provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
no consideration).
3. The required dividend holding period has been met. The shares
must have been owned by you for more than 60 days of the However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the transfer
‘holding period’ – which is defined as the 121-day period that of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS.
begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or the day in which
the stock trades without the dividend priced in. For example, if a
stock’s ex-dividend date is 1 October, the shares must be held
for more than 60 days in the period between 2 August and 30
November of that year in order to count as a qualified dividend.272
GSK Annual Report 2017
Shareholder information continued
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0371 384 2991 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose A DRIP election form can be downloaded
(DRIP) to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. from www.shareview.co.uk or requested by
contacting Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through the A dividend bank mandate form can be
account (Bank Mandate) post, you can instead have them paid directly into your bank downloaded from www.shareview.co.uk
or building society account. This is quicker, more secure and or requested by contacting Equiniti.
avoids the risk of your cheque going astray.
Dividend payment direct to bank Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, For more details on this service and the costs
account for overseas shareholders Equiniti will convert your dividend into your local currency involved please contact Equiniti.
and send it direct to your local bank account. This service is
available in over 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications of You can register at www.shareview.co.uk
company communications including our Annual Report, dividend
payments (if paid by way of a Bank Mandate), access to electronic
tax vouchers and the availability of online voting for all general
meetings. Each time GSK mails out hard copy shareholder
documents you will receive an email containing a link to the
document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your You can register at www.shareview.co.uk
share balance and movements, update your address and dividend
payment instructions and register your votes for our AGM.
Duplicate publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of this report or other mailings, Please contact Equiniti.
please contact Equiniti and they will arrange for your accounts
to be merged into one for your convenience and to avoid waste
and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated form For internet transactions, please log on to
or held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by internet, www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
(please note that market trading hours
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, telephone or by a postal dealing service provided by Equiniti For telephone transactions, please call
Monday to Friday (excluding public Financial Services Limited. 0345 603 7037 (in the UK) or
holidays in England and Wales)) +44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK).
For postal transactions, please call
0371 384 2991* to request a
dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring An application form can be requested
a share certificate. The service provides a facility for you to hold from www.shareview.co.uk or by
your shares in a nominee account sponsored by the company. contacting Equiniti.
You will continue to receive dividend payments, annual reports
and can attend and vote at the company’s general meetings.
Shareholders’ names do not appear on the publicly available
share register and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from www.shareview.co.uk
Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK or can be requested by telephoning Equiniti,
Ordinary Shares. on 0345 300 0430. Lines are open 8.00am
to 4.30pm for dealing, and until 6.00pm for
enquiries Monday to Friday (excluding public
holidays in England and Wales).
* UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales).
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.273
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholders services and contacts continued
ADS Depositary Contacts
Investor relations
The ADS programme is administered by The Bank of New
York Mellon: Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
UK
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
980 Great West Road
PO Box 505000
Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
Louisville, KY 40233-5000
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Overnight correspondence should be sent to:
US
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
5 Crescent Drive
462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600
Philadelphia PA 19112
Louisville, KY 40202
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
www.mybnymdr.com Tel: +1 215 751 4611 (outside the US)
Tel: +1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
GSK Response Center
Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside the US)
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
Share scam alert
The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT†, a direct ADS
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADS holders.
your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a
For details of how to enrol please visit www.mybnymdr.com or
highly organised financial scam.
call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Conduct
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities,
Corporate PEPs
at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its consumer helpline:
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 141 Tel: +44 (0)20 7066 1000 (outside the UK)
www.share.com
* Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, except UK public
Donating shares to Save the Children holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with Responsible Business Supplement
Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the We are publishing our Responsible Business Supplement 2017
aim of helping to save the lives of one million children. online. This will outline GSK’s approach to, and performance in,
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which our key responsible business areas: Health for all, Our behaviour,
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them Our people and Our planet.
to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated and sold
by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to help them
reach the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares to
Save the Children free of charge.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement
to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent
financial adviser.274
GSK Annual Report 2017
Other statutory disclosures
US law and regulation
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the – they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADS. regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
NYSE rules
generally accepted accounting principles
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US, – they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any
provided that we explain any significant variations. This explanation changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be accessed from the period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have
Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) EDGAR database or materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the
via our website. NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require us company’s internal control over financial reporting, and they have
to file annual and interim written affirmations concerning the Audit & disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal control
Risk Committee and our statement on significant differences in over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the ARC, all
corporate governance. significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
reasonably likely to affect adversely the company’s ability to record,
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the US,
process, summarise and report financial information, and any fraud
Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Sarbanes-Oxley
(regardless of materiality) involving persons that have a significant
is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with financial
role in the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
reporting and corporate governance.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and
As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a
with the participation of its management, including the CEO and
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the
CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Group’s
CFO and to the Audit & Risk Committee (ARC). It is chaired by the
disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2017.
Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers
from finance, legal, corporate communications and investor relations. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
are invited to attend its meetings periodically. It has responsibility
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls
for considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis,
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving
determining the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility
their control objectives.
for the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review
of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2017, the Committee met The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and
18 times. report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls
and procedures in March 2018, following which the certificates
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F
will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s Form 20-F.
contain a statement as to whether a member of the ARC is an audit
committee financial expert as defined by Sarbanes-Oxley. Such Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal control
a statement for the relevant member of the ARC (Judy Lewent) is over financial reporting
included in the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 96 and in her In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
biography on page 85. Additional disclosure requirements arise Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of
under section 302 and section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of the company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities Exchange
financial reporting. Act of 1934, as amended (the ‘Exchange Act’)):
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports – management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
the CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
– they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
– based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F in accordance with IFRS
contains no material misstatements or omissions
– management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
– based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other internal control over financial reporting based on the framework,
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
the dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report Commission (COSO)
on Form 20-F
– there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure financial reporting during 2017 that have materially affected, or
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal
made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of control over financial reporting
these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results
– management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control
of such evaluation being contained in the annual report on
over financial reporting as at 31 December 2017 and its
Form 20-F
conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F, and275
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
US law and regulation continued
– PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the Because the Group does not regularly receive information regarding
consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year the identity of its distributors’ downstream customers, it cannot
ended 31 December 2017, has also assessed the effectiveness establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially
of the Group’s internal control over financial reporting under attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian government or parties
Auditing Standard No. 5 of the Public Company Accounting sanctioned for disclosable activities. As a result, the Group is
Oversight Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed reporting the entire gross revenues (£12 million) and net profits
with the Group’s Form 20-F. (£4 million) from the Group’s sales to Iran in 2017.
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act (Section 13(r)) requires issuers facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by Hezbollah,
to make specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types which is designated by the United States as a terrorist organisation.
of dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with Again, the Group does not deal directly with such facilities and sells
government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities through distributors. The Group is also unable to identify with
sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of certainty the degree or nature of any affiliation of the end customers
weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are not with Hezbollah, and the Group is unable to establish the proportion
prohibited by US law and do not involve US persons. The Group of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to reportable
exports certain pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer products entities. As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues
to Iran, via sales by non-US entities, to two privately held Iranian (£48 million) and net profits (£25 million) from the Group’s sales to
distributors. Lebanon in 2017.
We do not believe that any of the Group’s direct dealings with In addition to Section 13(r), US law also generally restricts dealings
Iran require specific disclosure under these requirements. by US persons or persons which are subject to US jurisdiction with
certain countries or territories that are subject to comprehensive
The Group does not regularly receive information regarding the
sanctions. The Group does business, via non-US entities, in such
identity of its distributors’ downstream customers in Iran, and
jurisdictions targeted by sanctions laws, including Syria, Cuba,
it is possible that these customers include entities, such as
North Korea and Crimea. While we believe the Group complies
government-owned hospitals and pharmacies, that are owned
with all applicable US sanctions laws, such laws are complex and
or controlled directly or indirectly by the Iranian government or
continue to evolve rapidly.
by persons or entities sanctioned in connection with terrorism
or proliferation activities.
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure
With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach Notwithstanding our policy, the Companies Act 2006 requires
to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval before they
policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions. can make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political
expenditure. Therefore, while we do not make and do not intend to
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2017, the Group
make donations to any EU political parties or organisations nor do
did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations.
we incur any EU political expenditure, the definitions of political
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with donations, political expenditure and political organisations used
the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue to in the legislation are so wide that we annually seek shareholder
support an employee-operated Political Action Committee (PAC) authorisation for any inadvertent expenditure. In particular, the
that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible GSK definition of EU political organisations may extend to bodies such
employees. as those concerned with policy review, law reform, the representation
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts and of the business community and special interest groups such as
recipients of contributions are made by participating employees those concerned with the environment, which the company and its
exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political subsidiaries might wish to support. As a result, the definitions may
contributions, which are subject to strict limitations. In 2017, a total cover legitimate business activities not in the ordinary sense
of US$ 384,875 (2016 – US$ 380,360) was donated to political considered to be political donations or political expenditure.
organisations by the GSK employee PAC. Such activities are not designed to support any political party or
independent election candidate. The authority which the Board
has sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that the
company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the
legislation.
This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to £100,000
each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following the
introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act
2000. The authority has since been renewed annually.276
GSK Annual Report 2017
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint arrangements, the
address of the registered office and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2017 are disclosed below. Unless otherwise
stated the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary shares which are indirectly held by GlaxoSmithKline plc. The percentage held by class
of share is stated where this is less than 100%. Unless otherwise stated, all subsidiary companies have their registered office in their country
of incorporation. All subsidiary companies are resident for tax purposes in their country of incorporation unless otherwise stated.
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries
1506369 Alberta ULC Common 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
Action Potential Venture Capital Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Adechsa GmbH Ordinary c/o PRV Provides Treuhandgesellschaft AG, Dorfstrasse 38, Baar,
6341, Switzerland
Affymax Research Institute Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, CA, 95833, United States
Alenfarma – Especialidades Farmaceuticas, Limitada (iv) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
Alges, 1499-013, Portugal
Allen & Hanburys Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 24 Abimbola Way, Ilasamaja, Isolo, Lagos, Nigeria
Allen Farmaceutica, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H. Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
Barrier Therapeutics, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Beecham Group p.l.c 20p Shares ‘A’; 5p Shares ‘B’ 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited Ordinary 38 Quality Road, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 618809, Singapore
Beecham Pharmaceuticals S.A. (iv) (vi) Nominative Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
Beecham Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos e Quimicos, Lda, Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1499-013, Portugal
Beecham S.A. (iv) (vi) Ordinary Parc de la Noire Epine, rue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
Biddle Sawyer Limited Equity 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. (iv) Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
Burroughs Wellcome & Co (Australia) Pty Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Burroughs Wellcome & Co (Bangladesh) Limited Ordinary Fouzderhat Industrial Area, Dhaka Trunk Road, North Kattali, Chittagong
– 4217, Bangladesh
Burroughs Wellcome International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Cascan GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Castleton Investment Ltd (vi) Ordinary C/O DTOS, 19 Cybercity, 10th Floor Standard Chartered Tower, Ebene,
Mauritius
Cellzome GmbH Ordinary Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg, 69117, Germany
Cellzome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Cellzome Therapeutics, Inc. (iv) Ordinary Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Cellzome, Inc. Ordinary; Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Series A Preferred; Delaware, 19808, United States
Series B Preferred;
Series C-1 Convertible Preferred;
Series C-3 Convertible Preferred
Charles Midgley Limited (iv) Ordinary; 7% Cumulative Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Chiron Behring Vaccines Private Limited Ordinary 401-402, A, Wing, 4th Floor,Floral Deck Plaza, Opp Rolta Bhavan,
Central MIDC Road, Mumbai, Andheri (E), 400093, India
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Limited Ordinary; Preference (99.97%) 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Colleen Corporation Common with no par value Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Corixa Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Coulter Pharmaceutical, Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Dealcyber Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Desarrollo Energia Solar Alternativa S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain277
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Domantis Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Duncan Flockhart Australia Pty Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (iv) Ordinary; Preference Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland
Eskaylab Limited 10p Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Etex Farmacéutica Limitada Social Capital Avenida Andres Bello 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, C.P.
7550611, Chile
Fipar (Thailand) Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Genelabs Technologies, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, 95833, United States
Glaxo AS (iv) Ordinary Klaus Torgårds vei 3, Oslo, NO-0372, Norway
Glaxo Group Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (iv) Ordinary 1-8-1 Asasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (iv) Ordinary 82 Marine Road, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria
Glaxo Laboratories Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo New Zealand Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Properties BV Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1499-013, Portugal
Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (v) Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector 1, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 628413, Singapore
Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Glaxo Wellcome PST Pty Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (iv) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ordinary Poligono Industrial Allendeduero, Avenida de Extremadura, 3, Aranda de
Duero, Burgos, 09400, Spain
Glaxo, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (iv) Ordinary 41 Creek Road, Apapa, Lagos, PMB 1401, Nigeria
Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited Ordinary; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Ordinary B;
Ordinary C
Glaxochem Pte Ltd (v) Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1499-013, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. Ordinary 5th Floor DKSH Building, No.797 Preah Monivong Boulevard
(Corner of Street 484), Sangkat Phsar Deum Thakov, Khan Chamkarmon,
Phnom Penh, Cambodia
GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd Ordinary Room 901 – 910, Building A, Ocean International Center, 56 Mid 4th
East Ring Road, Bejing, Chaoyang District, China
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited Equity No 3 Building, 898 Halei Road, Zhang Jiang, Hi Tech Park Pudong
New Area, Shanghai, China
GlaxoSmithKline (Cyprus) Limited Ordinary Arch. Makariou III, 2-4, Capital Center, 9th Floor, Nicosia, P.C. 1065,
Cyprus
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ordinary 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th and 6th floors,
Zone 1, District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel
GlaxoSmithKline (Malta) Limited Ordinary 1, First Floor, De La Cruz Avenue, Qormi, QRM2458, Malta
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (iv) Ordinary Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E. Ordinary 266 Kifissias Avenue, Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
GlaxoSmithKline AB Ordinary Hemvarnsg. 9, Solna, 171 54, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline AG Ordinary Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada Quotas At Bollore Africa Logistics Angola, Estrada de Cacuaco n° 288,
CP 2163, Bairro Petrangol, Luanda, Angola278
GSK Annual Report 2017
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GlaxoSmithKline AS Ordinary Klaus Torgårds vei 3, Oslo, NO-0372, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Asia Pvt. Limited Equity Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, München, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd. Ordinary No. 277 Niudun Road, Zhangjiang Hi-Teck Park, Shanghai, China
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Ordinary 2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ordinary 637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ordinary; Preference Rue de l'Institut 89, B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Quotas Estrada dos Banderiantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Ordinary Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street,
Suite 1300, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada Social Capital Avenida Andres Bello No. 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago,
C.P. 7550611, Chile
GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ordinary Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland) Ordinary 6900 Cork Airport Business Park, Kinsale Road, Cork, County Cork,
Limited (ii) (iv) (v) Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ireland IP Limited (ii) (v) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. (iv) Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o Quotas Zmja od Bosne broj 7-7a, Sarajevo, 71000, Bosnia and Herzegovina
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o. Equity capital Ulica Damira Tomljanovica Gavrana 15, Zagreb, Croatia
GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd Ordinary Omladinskih brigada 88, New Belgrade, City of Belgrade, 11070, Serbia
GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A. Ordinary Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
GlaxoSmithKline Eesti OU Ordinary Lõõtsa 8a, Tallinn, 11415, Estonia
GlaxoSmithKline ehf (iv) (vi) (Dissolved January 2018) Ordinary Thverholt 14, 105, Reykjavik, Iceland
GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Avenida El Boqueron y Calle Izalco No 7 y 8 Parque Industrial El
Boqueron, Santa Elen, Antiguo Custatlan, La Libertad, El Salvador
GlaxoSmithKline EOOD Ordinary 115 G Tsarigradsko Shose Blvd., floor 9, Mladost Region, Sofia, 1784,
Bulgaria
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, München, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A. Ordinary Novena Avenida 0-09, Zona 4, Guatemala City, Guatemala
GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS Ordinary Klaus Torgårds vei 3, Oslo, NO-0372, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Common with no par value Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street,
Suite 1300, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Ireland) Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A. Ordinary Tegucigalpa, MDC, Honduras
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Class A Common; Class C Preference 7333 Mississauga Road North, Mississauga, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd. Ordinary 19 Par-La-Ville Road, Hamilton, HM11, Bermuda
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited A Ordinary; B Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain279
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Holdings Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Services Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Ireland) Limited (ii) (v) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Asasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ordinary 9F LS Yongsan Tower 92, Hangangdae-ro Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 140-702,
Republic of Korea
GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Latvia SIA Ordinary Duntes iela 3, Riga, Latvia
GlaxoSmithKline Lietuva UAB Ordinary Ukmerges st. 120, Vilnius, LT-08105, Lithuania
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary Units 2201, 2214 and 23/F, Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road,
Harbour City, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA Ordinary Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A. Ordinary 42-44 Angle Bd, Rachidi et Abou Hamed El Glaza, Casablanca, Morocco
GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Limited Ordinary H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Calzada, Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo, Huipulco,
Delegacion Tlalpan, 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ordinary Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ordinary Piispansilta 9A, P.O. Box 24, Espoo, FIN-02230, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A. Ordinary Av. Javier Prado Oeste, 995, San Isidro, LIMA 27, Peru
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ordinary Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited Ordinary L.R. NO. 209/6921, 5th Floor, Icea Lion Centre, Riverside Park West
Wing, Chiromo Road, Westlands P.O. Box 10643-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Semangat, Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, 46300, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd Ordinary 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Suzhou) Limited Ordinary No 40 Su Hong Xi Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, 215021, China
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A Ordinary 300 metros al este de la Rotonda de la Betania, Mercedes de Montes
de Oca, Sabanilla, Montes de Oca, San Jose, Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ordinary A; Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
Ordinary B;
Ordinary C;
Ordinary D
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Ordinary Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC Chartered Capital Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. Common Centro Internacional de Mercadeo, 90 Road # 165, Tower II, Suite 800,
Guaynabo, 00968, Puerto Rico
GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A. Ordinary Ave. Lope de Vega #29, Torre NovoCentro, Local 406, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ordinary Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ordinary Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, München, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Services Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline SL Holdings, LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (iv) Partnership 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Slovakia s.r.o. Ordinary Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia280
GSK Annual Report 2017
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Superannuation Company Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
(in liquidation)
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (ii) (v) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Ordinary Yakimanskaya nab., 2, Moscow, 119180, Russian Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L. Ordinary Immeuble Les Quatres R, Rue du Lac Lochness, Berges du Lac,
Tunis, Tunisia
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A. Registered shares provisory stock Salto 1105, CP 11.200 Montevideo, Uruguay
GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ordinary Urbanizacion La Trinidad, Calle luis De Camoems, Edif No 115-117
Apatado Posta, Caracas, 1010, Venezuela
GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (iv) (vi) Equity capital The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, 7th Floor Unit 701,
Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
GlycoVaxyn AG (vi) Common; Preferred A; Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland
Preferred B; Preferred C
Group Laboratories South Africa (Pty) Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Semangat, Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, 46300, Malaysia
GSK Capital K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Asasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GSK CH Argentina S.A. Nominative non endorseable ordinary shares Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o. Ordinary ul. Rzymowskiego 53, Warsaw, 02-697, Poland
GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana Ordinary Ameriška ulica 8,Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia
GSK Kazakhstan LLP Charter Capital 273, Furmanov Street, Almaty, Medeu District, 050059, Kazakhstan
GSK Pharmaceutical Trading SA Ordinary 5 Poienelor Street, Brasov, Romania
GSK Services Sp z o.o. Ordinary Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
GSK Vaccines BV (iv) Ordinary Hullenbergweg 85, Amsterdam, 1101 CL, Netherlands
GSK Vaccines GmbH Ordinary Emil-von-Behring-Str.76, 35041 Marburg, Germany
GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH Ordinary Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 27, Holzkirchen, 83607, Germany
HGS France S.a.r.l. (iv) (vi) Ordinary 52-54 rue de la Belle Feuille, Boulogne-Billancourt, 92100, France
Horlicks Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Human Genome Sciences Pacific Pty Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Common 2323 du Parc Technologique, Québec, PQ, G1P 4R8, Canada
ID Biomedical Corporation of Washington (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (iv) Quotas Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1499-013, Portugal
InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH Quotas Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
J&J Technologies, LC (iv) LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 100 Shockoe Slip, 2nd Floor,
Richmond, VA 23219, United States
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoires Paucourt (iv) Ordianry 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoires Saint-Germain (iv) Ordianry 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V. Ordianry Calzada Mexico Xochimilco, 4900 San Lorenzo Huipulco, District Federal
Mexico, 14370, Mexico
Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (iv) Ordinary Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1499-013, Portugal
Laboratorios Stiefel de Chile & Compañía Limitada (vi) Social Capital Avenida Andres Bello 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, C.P.
7550611, Chile
Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA (vi) Ordinary Urbanizacion La Trinidad, Calle luis De Camoems, Edif No 115-117
Apatado Posta, Caracas, 1010, Venezuela
Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda. Ordinary Rua Professor Joao C Salem 1081 1301, Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, Brazil281
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (iv) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1499-013, Portugal
Maxinutrition Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
Mixis Genetics Limited Ordinary; Ordinary Euro 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd Ordinary Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland
Montrose Pharma Company Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary Quota H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics AG (in liquidation) Ordinary c/o OBC Suisse AG, Aeschenvorstadt 71, Basel, 4051, Switzerland
Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Okairos AG (in liquidation) Common; c/o OBC Suisse AG, Aeschenvorstadt 71, 4051, Basel, Switzerland
Preferred A;
Preferred B
Penn Labs Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
S.R. One International B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
S.R. One, Limited Units (Common) Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 17110, United States
Setfirst Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa-Produtos Ordinary Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
Farmaceuticos, LDA (iv) 1499-013, Portugal
SmithKline Beecham (Australia) Pty Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (iv) Ordinary 14, Topkhana Road, Segunbagicha, Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh
SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (ii) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited Non-cumulative non-redeemables; Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Limited (ii) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Biologicals US Partnership Partnership Interest Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C. Quotas Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
SmithKline Beecham Holdings (Australia) Pty. Limited Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
(in liquidation)
SmithKline Beecham Inter-American Corporation (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Limited Ordinary 6.25p 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Services Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Trustees Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, München, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, München, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Port Louis Limited (vi) Ordinary C/o CIM Corporate Services Ltd, Les Cascades Building,
Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
SmithKline Beecham Retirement Plan (Nominees) Pty Limited Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
(in liquidation)
SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan Trustee Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited (iv)
Stiefel Distributors (Ireland) Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Dominicana, S.R.L. (iv) (vi) Ordinary Ave. Lope de Vega #29, Torre NovoCentro, Local 406, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
Stiefel Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany282
GSK Annual Report 2017
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Stiefel India Private Limited Equity 401-402, A, Wing, 4th Floor, Floral Deck Plaza, Opp Rolta Bhavan,
Central MIDC Road, Mumbai, Andheri (E), 400093, India
Stiefel Laboratories (Maidenhead) Ltd Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories Legacy (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Laboratories Limited (iv) Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited (vi) Ordinary 103 Gul Circle, 629589, Singapore
Stiefel Laboratories Pty Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Stiefel Maroc SARL Ordinary 275 Boulevard Zerktouni, Casablanca, Morocco
Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel West Coast LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Strebor Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Tempero Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Series A Preference; Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Series B Preference; Common Delaware, 19808, United States
The Sydney Ross Co. (iv) Ordinary Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (iv) Ordinary Level 8, Symphony House, Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A/46,
Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, 47301, Malaysia
Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Consumer Products Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Developments Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Wellcome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Operations Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E. New Monetary Shares 90.7 El Salam City 11491, PO Box 3001, Cairo, Egypt
(99.5%)
Beecham Enterprises Inc. (iv) Common 55.9 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Block Drug Company, Inc. Common 63.5 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
Block Drug Corporation (iv) Common 63.5 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
British Pharma Group Limited (i) Captial (50%) 50 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
de Miclén a.s. Ordinary 63.5 Priemyselny Park Gena, Ul. E. Sachsa 4-6, 934 01, Levice, Slovakia
Duncan Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 63.5 2266 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc. Common 91.5 2266 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
Ex-Lax, Inc. Common 63.5 The Prentice Hall Corporation System, Puerto Rico, Inc., c/o Fast
Solutions, LLC, Citi Tower, 252 Ponce de Leon Avenue, Floor 20,
San Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico
Galvani Bioelectronics Inc. Common 55 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Galvani Bioelectronics Limited A Ordinary; 55 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
B Ordinary (0%)
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Ordinary 75 PO Box 22617, Area No 73 to 156, Warehouse City, First Stage Al
Khomrah, Jeddah 21416, Saudi Arabia283
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
Glaxo Wellcome Ceylon Limited Ordinary; 63.3 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
Ordinary B
GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd Ordinary (90%) 90 No. 65, the Fifth Avenue, Tai Feng Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic
and Technolog, Tianjin, 300457, China
GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A. Ordinary 99.99 Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Wilaya de Boumerdes, Algeria
GlaxoSmithKline Bangladesh Limited Ordinary (82%) 82 Fouzderhat Industrial Area, Dhaka Trunk Road, North Kattali, Chittagong
– 4217, Bangladesh
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Produtos para Consumo e Saude Ltda Quotas 63.5 66 BL1/302, Vitor Civita Street, Barra Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro,
22775-044, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (China) Co. Ltd Ordinary 63.5 Rooms 01A, 06B-09, 23F, The Headquarters Building, No. 168 Tibet
Road (M), Shanghai, 200001, China
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Hong Kong) Limited Ordinary 63.5 Units 2201, 2214 and 23/F, Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road,
Harbour City, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 63.5 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Overseas) Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 63.5 13th Floor, Unit 13.05 and 13.06 Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road,
Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) IP Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (US) IP LLC LLC Interests 63.5 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S Ordinary 63.5 Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare AB (vii) Ordinary 63.5 Nykaer 68, DK-2605, Brondby, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 63.5 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. Ordinary 63.5 Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Colombia SAS Ordinary 63.5 Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Czech Republic s.r.o. Ordinary 63.5 Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance No.2 Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finland Oy Ordinary 63.5 Piispansilta 9A, Fin-02230, Espoo, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna,
A-1120, Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital 63.5 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Greece Societe Ordinary 63.5 274 Kifissias Avenue Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
Anonyme
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC LLC Interests 63.5 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited Ordinary A; 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Ordinary B (0%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. Common 63.5 7333 Mississauga Road North, Mississagua, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland) Ordinary 63.5 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(No 3) Limited (ii) (v)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland) Ordinary 63.5 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(No.2) Unlimited Company (ii) (iv) (v)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. Ordinary 63.5 1-8-1 Asasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Korea Co., Ltd. Ordinary 63.5 9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92, Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 140-702,
Republic of Korea
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare L.L.C. LLC Interests 63.5 Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 17110, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited Equity (72.5%) 72.5 Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Mexico, Ordinary 63.5 Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo Huipulco,
S. De R.L. de C.V. Delegacion Tlalpan, Mexico, D.F. 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare New Zealand Limited Ordinary 63.5 Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Norway AS Ordinary 63.5 Klaus Torgårds vei 3, Oslo, NO-0372, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pakistan Limited Ordinary (82.6%) 52.4 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi,
74000, Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 63.5 2266 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 63.5 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain284
GSK Annual Report 2017
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. Ordinary 63.5 Via Zambeletti snc, Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary 63.5 Lot 89, Jalan Enggang, Ampang/Ulu Kelang Industrial Estate, Selangor,
54200, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Slovakia s. r. o. Ownership interest 63.5 Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ordinary 63.5 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. Common 63.5 ul. Rzymowskiego 53, Warsaw, 02-697, Poland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sri Lanka Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Holdings Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SRL Ordinary 63.5 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 6th floor (Zone 2),
District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Vietnam Charter Capital 63.5 Floor 16, Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1,
Company Limited Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. Partnership Interest (55.9%) 55.9 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, Produtos para Ordinary Quota 63.5 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
a Saude e Higiene, Lda 1499-013, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (iii) Ordinary (46.4%) 46.4 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Private Limited Equity 63.5 Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Costa Rica S.A. Ordinary 63.5 San Jose 300 Este de la Rotonda Betania, Carretera a Sabanilla,
Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (ii) Ordinary 63.5 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO Ordinary 63.5 Presnenskaya nab 10, Moscow, 123112
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare Ukraine O.O.O. Ownership interest 63.5 Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary 63.5 Likoni Road, PO Box 78392, Nairobi, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline OTC (PVT.) Limited Ordinary 63.5 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi,
74000, Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ordinary (82.6%) 82.6 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi,
74000, Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Panama S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Paraguay S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Oficial Gilberto Aranda 333, Planta Alta casi Salvador del Mundo,
Asuncion, Paraguay
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Equity (75%) 75 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Common 91.5 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E. Ordinary (91.2%) 91.2 Boomerang Office Building – Land No. 46, Zone (J) – 1st District,
Town Center – 5th Tagammoe, New Cairo City, Egypt
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS Ordinary 63.5 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GlaxoSmithKline Tuketici Sagligi Anonim Sirketi Nominative 63.5 Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline-Consumer Hungary Limited Liability Company Membership 63.5 H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GSK CH Kazakhstan LLP Charter Capital 63.5 32 A Manasa Str., Bostandyk District, Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan
GSK Consumer Health, Inc. Common 63.5 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Israel Ltd (iv) Ordinary 63.5 25 Basel Street, Petech Tikva 49510, Israel
GSK Consumer Healthcare Schweiz AG Ordinary 63.5 Suurstoffi 14, Rotkreuz, 6343, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Services, Inc. Common 63.5 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Singapore Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 63.5 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GSK-Gebro Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 38.1 Bahnhofbichl 1, 6391 Fieberbrunn, Kitzbühel, Austria
Iodosan S.p.A. Ordinary 63.5 Via Zambeletti snc,Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
Kuhs GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. Ordinary 78.3 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C. Quotas (98.2%) 98.2 Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
N.C.H. – Nutrition Consumer Health Ltd (vi) Ordinary 63.5 14 Hamephalsim St, Petach Tikva, Israel
Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary; 63.5 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
Redeemable Preference
Novartis Consumer Health GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany285
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
Novartis Consumer Health S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Route de I'Etraz 2, 1197 Prangins, Switzerland
Novartis Consumer Health UK Limited Ordinary 63.5 Park View, Riverside Way, Watchmoor Park, Camberley, Surrey,
GU15 3YL, England
P.T. SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals A Shares; 99 Jl. Pulobuaran Raya, Kav. III DD/2,3,4, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung,
B Shares (0%) Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
P.T. Sterling Products Indonesia A shares; 63.5 Graha Paramita Building, 5th F, Jalan Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Jakarta,
B Shares 12940, Indonesia
Panadol GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
PHIVCO Jersey II Limited (iv) (v) Ordinary 78.3 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey
PHIVCO Jersey Limited (iv) (v) Ordinary 78.3 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey
PHIVCO UK II Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
PHIVCO UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
PHIVCO-1 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
PHIVCO-2 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia A Shares; 95 Jl Pulobuaran Raya Kav III DD/, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung, Timur,
B Shares (0%) Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
PT GSK Consumer Healthcare Indonesia Ordinary 63.5 Graha Paramita 3B Floor, Jl. Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Kuningan, Jakarta,
12940, Indonesia
PT. Bina Dentalindo (in liquidation) Ordinary 63.5 Gedung Graha Ganesha Lantai 3, Jl Raya Bekasi Km 17, No5, Jakarta
Timur 13930, Indonesia
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare LLC (iv) Common Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ordinary (55%) 34.9 Cheng Lin Zhuang Industrial Zone, Dong Li District, Tianjin, 300163,
China
SmithKline Beecham (Private) Limited Ordinary (99.6%) 63.3 World Trade Center, Level 34, West Tower, Echelon Square, Colombo 1,
Sri Lanka
SmithKline Beecham Research Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Ctra de Ajalvir Km 2.500, Alcala de Henares, Madrid, 28806, Spain
SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O. Participation Interest (97%) 97 Krylatskaya str., 17/3., Moscow, 121614, Russian Federation
Stafford-Miller (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 63.5 Clocherane, Youghal Road, Dungarvan, Co. Waterford, Ireland
Stafford-Miller Limited Ordinary; 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Non-Cumulative
Non Redeemable Preference
Sterling Drug (Malaya) Sdn Berhad Ordinary 63.5 Lot 89, Jalan Enggang, Ampang/Ulu Kelang Industrial Estate, Selangor,
54200, Malaysia
Sterling Products International, Incorporated (iv) Common 63.5 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Stiefel Consumer Healthcare (UK) Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Stiefel Egypt LLC (iv) Quota (99%) 99 3 Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 63.5 Finisklin Business Park, County Sligo, Ireland
ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited Ordinary 78.3 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
ViiV HealthCare BV Ordinary 78.3 Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
ViiV Healthcare Company Common 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ViiV Healthcare Finance 1 Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary; 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Redeemable Preference
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Prinzregentenplatz 9, München, 81675, Germany
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
ViiV Healthcare Hong Kong Limited Ordinary 78.3 23/F Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Harbour City, Tsimshatsui,
Kowloon, Hong Kong
ViiV Healthcare Kabushiki Kaisha Ordinary 78.3 1-8-1 Asasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
ViiV Healthcare Limited Class A Shares, Deferred; 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Class B Shares (0%);
Class C Shares (0%);
Class D1 (0%);
Class D2 (0%);
Class E 5% Cumulative
Preference (0%)286
GSK Annual Report 2017
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd Ordinary 78.3 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Centro International de Mercadeo, 90 carr. 165 Torre 2, Suite 800,
Guaynabo, 00968, Puerto Rico
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. Quota 78.3 Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
ViiV Healthcare SAS Ordinary 78.3 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
ViiV Healthcare sprl Ordinary 78.3 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC (iv) Participation Interest 78.3 Krylatskaya str., 17/3., Moscow, 121614, Russian Federation
ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.2) Limited (v) Ordinary 78.3 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.5) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare ULC Common 78.3 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
ViiV Healthcare Venture LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ViiVHIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda Quota 78.3 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1499-013, Portugal
Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited (iv) Ordinary 46.4 2A Association Avenue, Ilupeju Industrial Estate, Lagos, PO Box 3199,
Nigeria
Zhejiang Tianyuan Bio-Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Ordinary (95%) 95 No. 56, Tian He Road, Yuhang Economic Development Zone, Hangzhou,
Zhejiang Province, China
Associates
Apollo Therapeutics LLP Partnership Interest (25%) 25
Calci Medica Inc. Series A and Junior 43.3
Preferred (33.9%)
GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc. Common (40%) 40
Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP Partnership Interest (25%) 25
Innoviva, Inc. Common (31.4%) 31.4
Japan Vaccine Distribution Co., Ltd Ordinary (50%) 50
Kurma Biofund II, FCPR Partnership Interest (32%) 32
Longwood Founders Fund LP Partnership Interest (28%) 28
Medicxi Ventures I LP Partnership Interest (26.2%) 26.2
Joint Ventures
Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Limited (in liquidation) 50 708/718, 7th Floor, A Wing, Sagar Tech Plaza, Saki Naka, Andheri East,
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400072, India
Japan Vaccine Co., Ltd. 50 6 Yonbancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Qualivax Pte. Limited 50 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898, Singapore
Qura Therapeutics, LLC 50 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Key
(i) Directly owned by GlaxoSmithKline plc. (iv) Dormant company.
(ii) E xempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (v) Tax resident in the UK.
(Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions noted in Section 357 of that Act. (vi) Entity expected to be disposed of or removed.
(iii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the (vii) Incorporated in Sweden.
Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.287
GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Novartis transaction The three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving the Consumer Healthcare,
Vaccines and Oncology businesses completed on 2 March 2015.
Ordinary Share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how it
has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.288
GSK Annual Report 2017
Index
Page Page
Access to our high-quality products 46 Investments in associates and joint ventures 186
Accountability 96 Investor relations 273
Accounting principles and policies 162 Key accounting judgements and estimates 166
Acquisitions and disposals 206 Key performance indicators 18
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Leadership and effectiveness 88
cash flows 204 Legal proceedings 227
Annual General Meeting 2018 270 Major restructuring costs 175
Approach to Brexit 55 Modern employer 48
Approach to tax 56 Movements in equity 202
Assets held for sale 188 Net debt 199
Associates and joint ventures 176 New accounting requirements 168
Audit & Risk Committee Report 96 Nominations Committee Report 94
Cash and cash equivalents 188 Non-controlling interests 210
CEO’s statement 5 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 59
Chairman’s statement 4 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 127
Chairman’s Governance statement 80 Notes to the financial statements 162
Chairman’s Remuneration annual statement 114 Operating profit 173
Commitments 212 Other intangible assets 184
Consolidated balance sheet 159 Other investments 187
Consolidated cash flow statement 161 Other non-current assets 187
Consolidated income statement 158 Other non-current liabilities 199
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 160 Other operating income 172
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 158 Other provisions 198
Consumer Healthcare 36 Our Board 82
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 256 Our long-term priorities 12
Contingent consideration liabilities 209 Pay for performance 120
Contingent liabilities 200 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 190
Corporate Executive Team 86 Pharmaceuticals 22
Corporate governance 79 Pharmaceuticals products, competition and
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 110 intellectual property 254
Critical accounting policies 76 Pipeline 251
Directors and senior management 138 Presentation of the financial statements 162
Directors’ interests in shares 128 Principal Group companies 226
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 148,233 Principal risks and uncertainties 257
Dividends 180,269 Property, plant and equipment 181
Donations to political organisations and Quarterly trend 244
political expenditure 275 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 205
Earnings per share 180 Registrar 272
Employee costs 174 Related party transactions 204
Employee share schemes 224 Relations with stakeholders 107
Ethical conduct and environmental sustainability 50 Remuneration governance 125
Exchange rates 168 Remuneration policy summary 142
Executive Director remuneration 117 Remuneration report 113
Finance expense 176 Reporting framework 58
Finance income 175 Science Committee report 109
Financial calendar 269 Segment information 169
Financial instruments and related disclosures 213 Share capital and control 267
Financial position and resources 72 Share capital and share premium account 201
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Share price 267
under UK GAAP 233 Shareholder information 267
Five year record 248 Shareholder services and contacts 272
Global health through science 44 Taxation 177
Glossary of terms 287 Tax information for shareholders 270
Goodwill 182 Trade and other payables 189
Group companies 276 Trade and other receivables 188
Group financial review 52 Treasury policies 77
How we create long-term value 8 Trust 42
How we manage risk 20 US law and regulation 274
Independent Auditors’ report 149,234 Vaccines 30
Industry trends 10 Vaccines products, competition and intellectual property 255
Inventories 187 Viability statement 57GSK Annual Report 2017
About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an English Brand names
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report
public limited company on 6 December 1999. We were are trade marks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK
or associated companies, with the exception of Edurant
formed by a merger between Glaxo Wellcome plc and owned by Janssen, Cialis owned by Eli Lilly and Company
and Rituxan owned by Biogen MA Inc. Zofran owned by
SmithKline Beecham plc. GSK acquired these two Novartis AG and Trumenba owned by Pfizer Inc.
English companies on 27 December 2000 as part Acknowledgements
Design
of the merger arrangements. Friend www.friendstudio.com
Printing
Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
FSC certified and Carbon Neutral.
and the New York Stock Exchange. Paper
This Annual Report is printed on Revive 100 Silk,
a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification.
All pulps used are made from 100% de-inked,
paper waste and are elemental chlorine free.
The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and
EU Ecolabel certificates for environmental management.
Read more at www.gsk.com
Download PDFs:
Annual Report 2017
Form 20-F
Responsible Business Supplement 2017
Cautionary statement regarding A number of adjusted measures are used to report the Given the potential development options in the Group’s
forward-looking statements performance of our business. These measures are defined pipeline, the outlook may be affected by additional
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US on page 58 and a reconciliation of Adjusted results to Total data-driven R&D investment decisions. The expectations are
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including results is set out on page 67. given on a constant currency basis (2016-2020 outlook at
t s o F e i sdh t txf o rea i ps t r it n ch w e ed t te cm i lao f ytG yr ac e d t t otu n r - hio om t l ho es u n i e sop sm s en k t , oo a it m sn rrda tg ia a cfen oy ts ad , e rtt lc e maow oo ct rer t en a hi n cmt t set a t ute e s i s rp nn n r b ou etfi yo sn b f n f r fl ttgo i u w hc fir t aev a um i ce n r r fd a tae t stt ch- hi .elo tee o Tv n t o e hGf h u k nr eae rt i t ytn ou sl e g tur u. h ea p sAs e s e’b nt s ye ay wd dict neo, ou ov mro r re nr dor e se o sno n tn t o r stb t ra s r ue el . c c lh aa ha tn elf T o p i u An pfh l nvcfe oe e n o nr s ui n r tt a ao mf a lo s n Rs e r a m e n ein l t g pla v ao u ot iti c iro ra d ttan t i ei v sn o i i htn tn oi i on e t o uv fh s uri l.i t d s ta i P un t bd a rdio e eo su n c t p cc u pt e oeom e r nm frb soe fe tu on r rn my r ut t m ed s ato a dho n n a ce e acr es n se e . gn s a Ncao i pon agt r n tec G ohn o i i fin noln a t gt s ax f obt o n ii n rt eS yu e tm rot chee t aii lh st ia sh e en tdK .r line 2 a m r m o Aen n0 se agd 1 n td mi ho5 af iuo e on gC m l rl Geo eoE - mf w r t iR 1 noe ei f9) n r un o. m g p- tS r2 ’ mst beu 0h f aabb %e f tse ej ie oe ec soc nn dt tf it a v e ooAt ec so nnd t t t m im tja tmu hhxea s ea e n rt t t e a e dit e n tr d eo sei fa o tf p o ail rU s r f ic m l oS eteh hfi a dxa et tt p n s ia a oe i.g x m p nc Te r p pt he cs e la iif u csdoi cn r a r ri t t nm e tt o o ih c n o , fe b o t n t lU eh yr p op e Sr i a fn oo v G t trd at haahru i ext lo e aec ru U bst e p l Sm f e’ os .i r x m,
as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook Tax Cuts and Jobs Act becomes available, the assumptions
‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar underlying these estimates could change with consequent
meaning in connection with any discussion of future In outlining the expectations for 2018 and the five-year adjustments to the charges taken that could have a material
operating or financial performance. In particular, these period 2016-2020, the Group has made certain impact on the results of the Group.
assumptions about the healthcare sector, the different
include statements relating to future actions, prospective markets in which the Group operates and the delivery of Notice regarding limitations on
products or product approvals, future performance or revenues and financial benefits from its current portfolio, Director Liability under English Law
results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts,
expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal pipeline and restructuring programmes. Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits
proceedings, and financial results. Other than in For the Group specifically, over the period to 2020 GSK the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and
accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations expects further declines in sales of Seretide/Advair. The omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see page
(including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure introduction of a generic alternative to Advair in the US has 112), the Strategic report and the Remuneration report.
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct been factored into the Group’s assessment of its future Under English law the Directors would be liable to the
Authority), the Group undertakes no obligation to update performance. The Group assumes no premature loss of company, but not to any third party, if one or more of these
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of exclusivity for other key products over the period. The Group reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or
new information, future events or otherwise. The reader expects at least £6 billion of revenues per annum on a CER knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a
should, however, consult any additional disclosures that basis in 2018 from products launched since 2013 including material fact, but would otherwise not be liable. Pages 79
the Group may make in any documents which it publishes contributions from Shingrix. to 112, 148, 233 and 257 to 286 inclusive comprise the
and/or files with the SEC. All readers, wherever located, Directors’ Report, pages 2 to 78 inclusive comprise the
should take note of these disclosures. Accordingly, no The assumptions for the Group’s revenue and earnings Strategic report and pages 113 to 146 inclusive comprise
assurance can be given that any particular expectation expectations assume no material interruptions to supply of the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn
will be met and shareholders are cautioned not to place the Group’s products and no material mergers, acquisitions, up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon
undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. disposals, litigation costs or share repurchases for the English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in
Company; and no change in the Group’s shareholdings in connection with these reports shall be subject to the
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, ViiV Healthcare or Consumer Healthcare. They also assume limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to no material changes in the macro-economic and healthcare
factors that are beyond the Group’s control or precise environment. The 2018 guidance and 2016-2020 outlook Website
estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of have factored in all divestments and product exits since GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information
important factors, including those in this document, could 2015, including the divestment and exit of more than 130 on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed non-core tail brands (£0.5 billion in annual sales) as in this Annual Report to GSK’s website, none of the
or implied in any forward-looking statement. announced on 26 July 2017. information made available on the website constitutes part
of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed The Group’s expectations assume successful delivery of the by reference herein.
under ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 257 to Group’s integration and restructuring plans over the period
266 of this Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements 2016-2020 including the extension and enhancement to the
made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date combined programme announced on 26 July 2017. Material
they are made and are based upon the knowledge and costs for investment in new product launches and R&D have
information available to the Directors on the date of this been factored into the expectations given.
Annual Report.Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 Search for us here
Registered number: 3888792
www.gsk.com