Annual Report 2013
“ Being active and having
a positive outlook on
life is what keeps me
going every day.”Overview
Overview of 2013
“ Our performance in 2013 was defined by remarkable R&D
output and further delivery of sustained financial performance
for our shareholders.”
Please go to page 4 for more
More at gsk.com
Performance highlights
£26.5bn £8.0bn £7.0bn £5.2bn
Group turnover Core* operating profit Total operating profit Returned to shareholders
6 112.2p 112.5p 13%
Major medicines approved Core* earnings per share Total earnings per share Estimated return on R&D investment
10 6 1st 1st
Potential phase III study starts in 2014/15 Potential medicines with phase III data in Access to Medicines Index Pharmaceutical company to sign AllTrials
expected 2014/15 campaign for research transparency
Front cover story
Betty, aged 65, (pictured) has Chronic “ Health is important to me,
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).
I try to take care of my
She only has 25% lung capacity. This means
she finds even everyday tasks difficult, but health with all the tools
medicines and inhaled oxygen allow her to
I have and do the best
live as normal a life as she can. Betty’s mindset
is to stay busy and active, so every week she that I can with it.”
goes to rehab exercise classes.
COPD is a disease of the lungs that leads to
Betty, COPD patient,
damaged airways, causing them to become
North Carolina, USA
narrower and making it harder for air to get in
and out. 210 million people around the world
are estimated to have COPD.
Patients like Betty are the reason GSK has
been investing more in respiratory research
than any other healthcare company over the
past 40 years. For more on our research into
new medicines see page 34.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in
the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group’s current expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor can identify
these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words
and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or
product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results. The Group
undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could cause actual results to
differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on pages 232 to 241 of this Annual Report.
* A number of adjusted measures are used to report the performance of our business. These measures are defined on page 58 and a reconciliation of core results to total results is set out on page 65.Our mission
At GSK our mission is Contents
Strategic report
to improve the quality
Chairman’s statement 2
CEO’s review 4
of human life by enabling
Business overview 6
The global context 8
Our business model 12
people to do more, feel
Our strategic priorities 14
How we performed 16
better, live longer. Risk management 18
Grow 20
Deliver 32
Simplify 44
Our financial architecture 48
Responsible business 50
Financial review 58
Governance & remuneration
Our Board 76
Our Corporate Executive Team 80
Chairman’s letter 82
Board report to shareholders 83
Committee reports 89
Remuneration Committee
Chairman’s Annual Statement 96
Annual report on remuneration 97
Remuneration policy report 117
Financial statements
Directors’ statement of
responsibilities 128
Independent Auditors’ report 129
Financial statements 132
Notes to the financial statements 136
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
under UK GAAP 211
Investor information
Quarterly trend 218
Five-year record 222
Product development pipeline 225
Products, competition and
intellectual property 229
Risk factors 232
Share capital and share price 242
Dividends 244
Tax information for shareholders 244
Annual General Meeting 2014 245
US law and regulation 247
Shareholder services and contacts 249
GSK Annual Report 2013 1Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
To shareholders
The value of the significant changes that have been
made in recent years is evidenced in our performance
this year
“ Since Sir Andrew became It is clear from the following pages that Through the Audit & Risk Committee, we
the Group made good progress against oversee the issues and challenges faced by
CEO, the company has
its strategy in 2013. management, and encourage the creation
returned £30 billion of an environment in which GSK can achieve
The Board believes the business is seeing
its strategic ambitions in a responsible and
to shareholders.” the benefits of the significant changes the
sustainable manner.
management team has driven over recent
years to deliver sustainable growth, reduce I have no doubt that commercial success is
risk and enhance returns to shareholders. directly linked to operating in a responsible way
and which meets the changing expectations of
The notably strong performance from the
society. In this respect, the company continues
R&D organisation in 2013 – with six major
to adopt industry-leading positions on a range
new product approvals in areas including
of issues.
respiratory disease, HIV and cancer – is
critical to the longer-term prospects of the The announcement of plans during 2013
Group. That this has been achieved at the to evolve the way the business interacts with
same time as R&D is effectively managing its healthcare professionals and pays sales staff
cost base to deliver an improved estimated rate are developments I was particularly pleased
of return of 13% is particularly encouraging. to see.
It is worth noting that since Sir Andrew In the same way the Board strongly supports
became CEO, GSK’s market capitalisation the commitments the company has made to
has grown from approximately £55 billion advance transparency around clinical trial
to around £80 billion and the company has data, and welcomes the subsequent actions
returned some £30 billion to shareholders of other companies in this field. Over time,
via £20 billion of dividends and £10 billion it is to be hoped these steps will advance
of share buy-backs. medical science and improve patient care.
The allegations of fraudulent behaviour by
Risk management and commitment
certain employees within our business in
to ethical behaviour
China are wholly contrary to the company’s
The Board aims to assure the integrity of values. In addition to the Chinese Government
GSK’s business operations through rigorous investigation, we have commissioned an
processes and systems and during the year, independent review of our Chinese operations
risk management was once again a key part by the law firm Ropes and Gray, and we will
of the Board’s discussions. implement all appropriate actions as necessary
on conclusion of these investigations.
2 GSK Annual Report 2013Board gender diversity Governance and remuneration Regarding composition of the Board, our
We have been mindful of the changes outlined priority is to have diversity in terms of gender,
12 12 in the new UK Narrative and Remuneration length of tenure and business experience
Reporting regulations and this Annual Report across developed and emerging markets.
10
10 10 adheres to the new reporting standards. During the year, GSK had 33% female
8 representation on the Board, a level that
In particular, this year’s Remuneration
exceeds the original aspiration to have 25%
6 Report comprises two parts that will each
by the start of 2013. The Board firmly believes
4 5 5 require shareholder approval at the Group’s that a diverse balance of experience, insight,
forthcoming AGM. Further details are set
2 3 out in Tom de Swann’s letter to shareholders perspectives and background among its
Board members is in the best long-term
on page 96 of this Report.
0 interests of the Group and its shareholders.
2011 2012 2013
Board changes and composition
Prospects
Female
There were a number of changes to the Board
Male In closing, the Board would like to thank
during the year. I would like to thank Sir Crispin
Sir Andrew and his executive team for their
Davis, who stood down in May, for his valuable
commitment during a year in which the
contributions over nearly ten years of service.
Group once again demonstrated its ability
In April, we were pleased to have Hans Wijers
to deliver innovation while constantly striving
join the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
for substantial change. I am confident the
His extensive experience of running global
Group will continue to identify and grasp the
companies has already proved to be of great
many opportunities that will strengthen GSK’s
value to Board discussions.
performance, reward its shareholders, and
There were also planned changes in the create sustainable long-term value for society.
Chairmanships of several Board Committees.
Tom de Swaan succeeded Sir Crispin Davis
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
and Judy Lewent succeeded Tom as Chairman
of the Audit & Risk Committee, with Tom
remaining as a member of that committee.
In addition, I would like to thank Sir Deryck
Maughan for agreeing to remain on the Board Sir Christopher Gent
for up to an additional two years having Chairman
succeeded Sir Robert Wilson as Senior
Independent Director in May. Sir Deryck’s
considerable experience and knowledge
of GSK’s businesses will provide continuity
and balance.
Finally, Sir Robert Wilson stands down at
the 2014 AGM after ten years of exceptional
service and I would like to thank him for his
longstanding commitment to the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2013 3Strategic report
CEO’s review
Our CEO’s
Review of the year
Company performance in 2013 was defined by
remarkable output from our R&D organisation
“ We led the sector for new Over the past six years we have been making Overall, GSK accounted for 19% of FDA new
fundamental changes at GSK to deliver innovation drug approvals during 2013 and, since 2009,
medicine approvals and
and access to our products for patients and we have achieved more FDA approvals of
returned £5.2 billion to customers, and improved sustainable financial new molecular entities (NMEs) than any
performance for our shareholders. other company.
shareholders.”
In 2013, we saw further strong delivery The conversion of our advanced pipeline to
against these priorities. approved products represents the next step
in our strategy to deliver sustainable organic
During the year, we led the sector for new
growth and value to shareholders.
medicine approvals and returned £5.2 billion
to shareholders through dividends and share In particular, I want to note the growing
buy-backs – helping generate the best annual strength of our respiratory portfolio. With
total shareholder return (TSR) performance Advair, Flovent, Ventolin, Breo, Anoro and
since the formation of GSK. seven other respiratory products in late-stage
development, we are confident in our ability
We grew sales and earnings in line with
to maintain a leadership position in this area
guidance with turnover up 1% to £26.5 billion
well into the next decade.
and core earnings per share up 4% to 112.2p
(both CER). We achieved this trading result In addition to the highlighted approvals, our
despite some unexpected challenges, future pipeline opportunity remains extensive.
including significantly reduced sales in We have around 40 NMEs in phase II/III
our Chinese business. clinical development. In 2014 and 2015 we
expect phase III read-outs for six NMEs and
During 2013, we also continued to take action
are planning ten NME phase III starts in key
to reform our business model to better meet the
areas such as respiratory, oncology and
expectations of society. In particular, we took
immuno-inflammation.
industry-leading positions and actions to improve
global public health, increase transparency of Importantly, we also continue to improve our
our clinical data, and modernise our commercial financial efficiency in R&D and our estimated
practices and interactions with customers. internal rate of return of our R&D investments
is now 13%. This is good progress and we
Exceptional R&D delivery continue to target 14% on a longer-term basis.
2013 was the most productive period of R&D Improved R&D productivity is also
output in the company’s history. underpinning our strategy to create more
Of the six major new medicine files we profiled flexibility around the pricing of our new
at the start of 2013, five were approved: medicines to meet the needs of payers
Breo and Anoro for respiratory disease, and governments.
Tafinlar and Mekinist for melanoma (skin
cancer) and Tivicay for HIV. We are expecting
regulatory decisions for albiglutide, the
remaining asset in this group, in the first half
of 2014. In addition, we launched our new
injectable quadrivalent flu vaccine in the USA.
4 GSK Annual Report 2013Broadly based sales growth This is creating greater flexibility to invest I was delighted we achieved a significant
In terms of sales, we saw a broadly-based in our growth markets and new product milestone for our malaria vaccine candidate
performance in 2013. There was an improved launches and – together with continued which demonstrated that it could potentially
performance in our US business, where sales improvement in our financial efficiency – halve the number of malaria cases in young
were up 1% (or 4% excluding the divestment strengthens our ability to deliver earnings children. This vaccine has the potential to save
of Vesicare). We also saw stabilisation of per share growth ahead of sales. the lives of hundreds of thousands of children
our European business, which reported flat The business remains highly cash generative in Africa and we now plan to file for approval
sales, with the benefits of our restructuring with £4.7 billion in free cash flow in 2013. during 2014. We are committed to making it
programme helping to offset economic and In addition, we realised £2.5 billion from available at a not-for-profit price.
pricing pressures in the region. divestments leaving net debt of £12.6 billion There is no higher priority for me than the
We remain committed to investing for at the end of the year. We continue to focus values-based conduct of our employees.
continuing growth in our important Emerging on using cash to protect our credit profile In the past few years, we have focused on
Markets business. Sales in the region were up and fund organic investment and restructuring bringing to life our values of transparency,
5% for the year and 11% in the fourth quarter, programmes as well as our ongoing respect for people, integrity and patient
excluding China. commitment to a growing dividend, further focus, and being thoughtful about what
share buy-backs and bolt-on acquisitions – they really mean at a human level.
During the year, we also took steps to increase
whichever offers the most attractive returns.
our equity holdings in our fast-growing Indian It is because of my strong belief in our
pharmaceuticals and consumer subsidiaries company’s values that the allegations made in
Changing our business model
and announced plans to build new China about the behaviour of some individuals
manufacturing capacity in the country. We made considerable further progress during were so disappointing. The investigation
2013 on our agenda to operate responsibly into this matter by the authorities in China
Consumer Healthcare sales grew 4% excluding and meet the changing expectations of society. continues and we are co-operating fully. As
divested brands, with growth across all regions.
We made new commitments to increase a company, we are committed to learning the
transparency of our clinical research. Early lessons and taking all appropriate action in
Optimising and re-shaping in the year we announced our support for relation to the outcome of their investigation.
our portfolio
the AllTrials campaign and became the
We continue to take steps to optimise and first pharmaceutical company to commit to Outlook
focus our portfolio.
publishing the detailed clinical study reports for Looking to 2014, we see continued momentum
During 2013 we divested our anti-coagulant all of our medicines. In May, we were also the for the business and are targeting core earnings
products for more than £700 million. We also first in our industry to launch an online system per share (EPS) growth of 4-8% CER on
created a new Established Products Portfolio enabling researchers to request access to the turnover growth of around 2% CER on an
made up of our older, largely non-promoted anonymised patient-level data from our clinical ex-divestment basis (2013 EPS base of
brands, with the aim of finding more opportunities trials. I am pleased that other companies are 108.4p, turnover £25.6 billion). The range in our
to reduce complexity, enhance profitability and now also adopting this approach. guidance takes into account the roll-out of new
optimise the value of this group of products. products along with potential competition from
We also announced plans to evolve the way
generics to our older products such as Lovaza.
We also completed a significant divestment in we sell and market products to healthcare
our Consumer Healthcare business with the professionals to further align our activities In closing, I would like to thank all our
sale of drinks brands Lucozade and Ribena with the interests of patients and remove the employees, partners and suppliers for their
to Suntory of Japan for £1.35 billion. While perception of conflict of interest. Specifically, continued commitment and support. Overall,
these are iconic brands, particularly in the we plan to stop direct payments to healthcare I am confident that our core focus on innovative
UK, we believe their growth potential is better professionals for speaking engagements and product development and our programme of
realised by a company with existing category for attendance at medical conferences, and investment, coupled with the changes we are
presence and a substantial drinks distribution extend the principle of our US ‘Patient First’ making to our business model, are positioning
infrastructure in the emerging markets. programme globally, to decouple sales team the company competitively for the long term.
remuneration from prescription generation.
Financial efficiencies and We continue to expand access to our medicines
cash generation
to people living in the developing world.
Operationally we continue to restructure and
During 2013 we signed a ground-breaking
simplify our business to reduce our long-term
five-year partnership with Save the Children
cost base. In 2013 we delivered incremental
to combine the resources and capabilities of
year-on-year savings of around £400 million
our two organisations to help save the lives
from both ongoing and structural initiatives.
of one million children living in the poorest Sir Andrew Witty
countries in Africa. Chief Executive Officer
GSK Annual Report 2013 5Strategic report
Business overview
Business overview
What we do
We are a science-led global healthcare company that
researches and develops a broad range of innovative
products in three primary areas of pharmaceuticals,
vaccines and consumer healthcare
£26.5bn
2013 Group turnover (up 1% CER)
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
£17.9bn 67% £3.4bn 13% £5.2bn 20%
Turnover of Group Turnover of Group Turnover of Group
Our Pharmaceuticals business develops Our Vaccines business is one of the largest We develop and market a range of consumer
and makes medicines to treat a broad range in the world, producing paediatric and healthcare products based on scientific
of acute and chronic diseases. Our portfolio adult vaccines against a range of infectious innovation. We have brands in four main
is made up of both patent-protected and diseases. In 2013, we distributed more categories: Total Wellness, Oral Care,
off-patent medicines. than 860 million doses to 170 countries, Nutrition and Skin Health. These include
of which over 80% were supplied to a number of well-known brands such as
developing countries. Sensodyne, Panadol and Horlicks.
Sales by therapy area Sales by category Sales by category
£m £m £m
Respiratory 7,516 Paediatric vaccines 1,916 Total Wellness 1,935
Anti-virals 667 Includes vaccines against: polio, Oral Care 1,884
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, measles,
Central nervous system 1,483 Nutrition 1,096
mumps, rubella, meningitis C, chicken
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,239 pox, pneumococcal disease and Skin Health 272
rotavirus infection
Metabolic 174
Adolescent, adult and travel 1,504
Anti-bacterials 1,239
Includes vaccines against: flu
Oncology and emesis 969 (pandemic and seasonal), human
papilloma virus (cervical cancer),
Dermatology 770
hepatitis A and B, typhoid, meningitis
Rare diseases 495 A,C,W,Y, and booster vaccines against
diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis and polio
Immuno-inflammation 161
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,386
Other 799
Read more on page 60 Read more on page 61 Read more on page 62
6 GSK Annual Report 2013Our global reach
We have a significant global commercial 99,451
presence in more than 150 markets, a network
of 86 manufacturing sites in 36 countries and
large R&D centres in the UK, USA, Spain,
Belgium and China.
Employees
We have reshaped our business over recent
years to better align to the strategic approach
we have had in place since 2008. This has
allowed us to better access markets with
high-growth potential including those in
Asia Pacific, Latin America and Japan.
Employees by region 2008 Employees by region 2013
3%
3% 3%
5%
17%
21%
26%
38%
39%
R&D 45%
Our business is sustained through investment
in R&D. In 2013 we spent £3.4 billion before
non-core items*, £3.9 billion in total, in our
USA USA
search to develop innovative medicines,
Europe Europe
vaccines and consumer products.
EMAP EMAP
During the year we saw significant delivery from Japan Japan
Other Other
our late-stage pipeline, with six key medicines
approved by regulators in the USA alone.
We have dedicated research programmes Turnover by region 2008 Turnover by region 2013
for diseases that affect the developing world.
We are one of the few healthcare companies
researching both new vaccines and new
medicines for all three of the World Health 5%5% 7%
7%
Organization’s priority diseases: HIV/AIDS,
malaria and tuberculosis. 16% 33%
40%
25%
£3.4bn
34%
28%
Core R&D expenditure in 2013
USA USA
10 Europe Europe
EMAP EMAP
Japan Japan
Other Other
Potential phase III study starts in 2014/15
How we’re structured Turnover by segment
Core R&D expenditure While we have three primary areas of business, £bn
allocation in 2013 our commercial business is structured as a US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 7.2
combination of regional units and areas of focus.
Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 5.2
£m % For Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, we operate
EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 4.7
Pharmaceuticals 2,726 80 in geographical segments that combine these
two businesses. Our Consumer Healthcare Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1.6
Vaccines 496 15
business functions as a global unit, as does ViiV Healthcare 1.4
Consumer Healthcare 178 5 ViiV Healthcare, the specialist HIV company
Other trading 1.2
we founded with Pfizer in 2009, joined by
Shionogi in 2012. Consumer Healthcare 5.2
Read more on page 36
Other trading turnover includes Canada,
* The calculation of core results and non-core items Puerto Rico, Australasia, central vaccine
is set out on page 65. tender sales and contract manufacturing sales.
GSK Annual Report 2013 7Strategic report
The global context
The global context
Opportunities and challenges
Despite continuing macro-economic and market challenges
around the world, there remains a significant need for
medicines and healthcare treatments.
Global economic overview Based on IMF assessments, the outlook for Regional pharmaceutical
Global economic growth for 2013 continued to global economic growth in 2014 is 3.7%, market sales
be affected by the fallout from the international with the highest rates likely to be seen in the
financial crisis that began in 2008. At 3%, developing economies of India, other Asian
performance was slower than the 3.5% regions and sub-Saharan Africa (see Figure 1).
originally predicted by the International Factors such as political turbulence within
Monetary Fund (IMF), and also just below the European Union and instability in the
growth in the preceding year of 3.1%. Middle East are likely to continue to affect £511bn
the international business environment.
In the USA, the economy grew at an annual
rate of 1.9%. Indicators suggest an underlying
The global healthcare market
recovery, supported by a rebound in the Total global pharmaceutical market sales
Sales in the world pharmaceutical market
housing market and a continued fall in the
rose slightly to £511 billion (CER) in the year Source: IMS data 2013
unemployment rate, from a peak of 10% in
to September 2013, from £499 billion in
2009 to 6.7% by the end of 2013. Despite
the previous year, according to the industry
earlier announcements, the Federal Reserve
information company IMS.
held off tapering its quantitative easing
measures in the year. Emerging markets and Asia Pacific saw the
largest sales growth at 10%, pushing the
In the Eurozone the economy remained weak,
proportion of total sales from this region up
unemployment high and labour markets
to 22% for 2013. Sales from Europe were
depressed. Growth for the year was -0.4%.
largely unchanged, at 24% of the total.
The stringent fiscal reforms introduced in
North American pharmaceutical sales were
a number of Eurozone countries caused
£219 billion, representing 43% of the market.
social and political tensions.
The top therapeutic classes by sales were
In Japan, the government’s fiscal stimulus
unchanged in terms of positioning. Oncology/
and monetary easing to support private
immunomodulatory represented 16% of total
consumption and investment appears to
sales (10% growth), central nervous system
be having an effect. The economy grew
had 15% (a decline of 1%), while other areas
1.7% during the year.
also had declines (see Figure 2).
Performance of emerging markets and other
The IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics
regions was highly variable. In China, growth
predicts that annual spend on prescription
remained stable at 7.7%, with much of this
medicines will grow slowly – between 1-4%
growth coming in the second half of the year
– in North America, Europe and Japan, whereas
from inward investment. India grew at 4.4%.
spending in emerging nations will grow 10-13%
Growth was subdued in the economies of the
overall as a result of economic expansion and
Middle East and North Africa, Latin America and
population changes in these markets.
Russia compared with 2012. Many currencies
were put under pressure by the US Federal
Population growth and
Reserve’s tapering announcements in May 2013.
evolving lifestyles
Figure 1: Current and predicted growth rates (%) Population growth, increasing prosperity in
emerging markets, global changes in lifestyle
6 and governments’ responses to these dynamics
are all likely to expand the need for medicines
5 and other healthcare products in the future.
The United Nations forecasts that the global
4 population will reach 9.6 billion in 2050 USA
US sales were steady in 2013.
compared with 7.2 billion in 2013. While birth
3 This was partly a result of
rates decline in Europe and Japan, this is likely
patent expiries on blockbuster
to be offset by the sharp rise in populations medicines. However, the North
2 elsewhere, particularly in the Middle East American region still remains
and southern Asia. the top pharmaceutical market
1 by total sales.
0 £219bn
2012 2013 2014 2015
World output Advanced economies
Emerging market and developing countries
sales in 2013
Source: WEO Update, January 2014 (IMF)
8 GSK Annual Report 2013Figure 2: Total global sales of medicines by therapeutic classes (%) People are also living longer, partly as a result
of medical advances like vaccination that have
Oncology/Immunomodulatory (9.5%) prevented or treated diseases that previously
Central Nervous System (-1.0%) caused a significant number of deaths. As
15.8% Alimentary Tract and Metabolic (6.5%) people live longer, they are more likely to
Cardiovascular System (-6.8%) develop diseases of ageing, leading to
38.5% R Ale l s op thir ea rt o tr hy e S ray ps yt e am re ( a- s2 c.3 o% m) bined greater demand for medical treatments.
14.8% Countries with rising populations are many
(% growth of global sales at CER)
of the same economies that are experiencing
improved economic outlooks. As prosperity
12.3% increases, we have seen trends towards
6.6% 12.0% more sedentary lifestyles, increased
Reference: IMS data 2013 consumption of food, alcohol and tobacco
Data does not include vaccines sales. and a corresponding rise in chronic, non-
communicable diseases (NCDs) such as type
2 diabetes and heart disease. These diseases
Europe already disproportionately affect low and
Overall performance was better in middle-income countries, where nearly 80%
Europe than in 2012, with sales up
of deaths from NCDs occur. In 2008, the
approximately 1%. Austerity measures
WHO projected a global increase in deaths
and fiscal issues in many countries are
the main drivers for continued slow EMAP from NCDs of 17% by 2018, with the greatest
growth in the region. Emerging markets continue to grow increase in the African (27%) and the Eastern
quickly with sales up 10% in 2013.
Mediterranean regions (25%).
Sales in these diverse areas are
predicted to continue to grow strongly. Governments around the globe are under
pressure to improve healthcare provision.
Where a strong healthcare infrastructure is
£124bn absent, people often purchase medicines
themselves, and households in developing
countries spend a greater proportion of their
sales in 2013 income on healthcare than their counterparts
in more developed markets. A recent Pharma
Futures report estimates these out-of-pocket
costs can be as high as 40% in China and
India, and 25% in Brazil.
Economic growth in emerging markets is
likely to be mirrored by increased spending
on healthcare from both governments and
individuals. Demand for medicines, vaccines
and consumer healthcare products is expected
to continue to grow significantly faster in these
regions than in more mature markets over the
£ 113bn next few years.
A number of non-governmental organisations
and the World Health Organization, are leading
sales in 2013 efforts to support regions and countries in
prioritising and introducing wider healthcare
provision. There is a particular emphasis on
infant immunisations, which ultimately have
the potential to prevent millions of deaths
(see Figure 3 on page 10).
Price controls and regulatory pressures
The prescription medicines and vaccines
industry is highly regulated. Individual
governments have overall responsibility for
determining which products can be marketed
in their countries and in many cases, through
state-regulated systems, how these products
are priced.
The wide variations in regional and
country-specific laws around regulations
of medicines can present challenges to
the availability of new products in different
Japan markets. As many governments have been
While mandatory price cuts of seeking to control costs and reduce spending,
5-6% have been imposed in national healthcare budgets – particularly
alternate years, sales in Japan
the proportion spent on medicines – have
saw approximately 2% growth in
been squeezed.
2013 and the market continues to
be supportive of new medicines.
£55bn
sales in 2013
GSK Annual Report 2013 9Strategic report
The global context
The global context
continued
USA For both industry and regulators this legislation
The US regulatory agency, the Food and created new resourcing needs, as the Figure 3: The best chance
Drug Administration (FDA), approved 27 requirements around monitoring, reporting for childhood
new molecular entities in 2013, down from and managing of safety issues expanded.
According to the World Health
39 in 2012. Many of these approvals marked The year saw further debate on EU proposals
the first approval of the medicine in any market. to improve the regulations around conducting Organization (WHO), a wide range of
A number of experimental medicines had clinical trials, with the aim of boosting clinical vaccines are available for, or contribute
their development and review expedited research in EU member states. The proposals to, the prevention and control of 25
under the ‘breakthrough therapy designation’ are nearing finalisation and could simplify vaccine-preventable infections. As
programme, as a result of the 2012 Safety clincial trials processes in Europe when birth rates rise in developing countries,
and Innovation Act. This Act was designed they come into effect in 2016. there is a tremendous opportunity to
to speed up the approvals process for offer children protection from the many
medicines intended to treat serious or life Austerity programmes and restricted budgets infections common in childhood and
threatening conditions, and is enabling continued to create challenges for healthcare preventable by these vaccines. In its
medicines to reach patients sooner (see systems across Europe. In most countries, Global Vaccine Action Plan from 2011-
Figure 4 Expedited development). the pressure on drug prices remained high 2020, the WHO predicts that widening
and governments used a range of cost
In the USA, there are no government price containment measures, such as International access to vaccines could prevent
controls on private sector purchases. Reference Pricing, to squeeze efficiencies between 24.6 – 25.8 million deaths
However, pharmaceutical manufacturers out of drug budgets. by the end of the decade.
are required by federal law to provide rebates
to the government on certain medicines in Overall, access for patients to treatments
order to qualify for reimbursement under remains variable. Increasing use of managed
various healthcare programmes. These entry schemes for launching new products,
rebates are shared between the states and significant reforms of pricing systems (eg in
the federal government to offset the overall France, UK and Sweden) and industry-wide
cost of prescription drugs provided through stability agreements to manage the entire
the Medicaid insurance programme for low- drugs budget have all helped to some extent. Figure 4: Expedited development
income Americans. Rebates were increased Furthermore, in some countries, policies have
and expanded through the Affordable Care been implemented to reduce shortages of 5yrs
Act (ACA). Although the increase means medicines, while in others, patients have
additional costs for pharmaceutical seen their payments for prescription
manufacturers, it is also allowing Medicaid products increase.
to provide greater access for patients to Japan
prescription medicines.
The Japanese regulator, the Pharmaceutical
This expansion of the Medicaid programme, and Medical Device Agency (PMDA),
The expedited review process was
together with new health insurance approved 17 medicines containing new
introduced by the US Food and
marketplaces and a financial penalty for active ingredients in the six months from
certain Americans who choose not to purchase April to September 2013. Drug Administration in 2012 as
a way of speeding up the availability
insurance, which launched on 1 January 2014,
In April 2013, the PMDA produced a roadmap
caused a great deal of uncertainty in the of medicines intended to treat
outlining its desire to further strengthen
insurance market through 2013. serious or life-threatening conditions.
partnerships with foreign regulatory agencies
A recent review found it had reduced
Europe including the FDA, the EMA and agencies in
the number of years required for
Asia. This heightened spirit of co-operation
The European Medicines Agency (EMA), clinical testing. Candidate medicines
should speed up regulatory approvals, improve
which regulates new medicines for the with ‘breakthrough therapy’
the quality of safety measures, as well as
European Union, approved 38 medicines designation had an average of
improve the quality and quantity of research
containing new active substances in 2013. and the speed at which information can be 5.1 years of clinical testing before
This compared with the 35 novel medicines shared globally. being approved, compared with
approved in 2012. Europe also had the first 7.5 years for those that underwent
two approvals for biosimilar monoclonal The government in Japan continues to progress
a standard review.
antibodies (mAbs). a number of additional initiatives that are likely
to affect the prescriptions medicine industry.
The Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment
These include the goal of having 60% of all
Committee (PRAC), introduced as part of
prescriptions filled by generic medicines by
the revised EU pharmacovigilance legislation,
March 2018, and the introduction of health
completed its first year of operation in 2013
technology assessments for evaluating
and led to an increase in the amount of
pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
information available to the public about
regulators’ scrutiny of the safety of medicines.
10 GSK Annual Report 2013Emerging markets Countries such as India, Brazil and Argentina
Across emerging markets, prescription have introduced or are considering practices
medicines are regulated in a variety of ways that may restrict the grant of patents for certain
in different countries. For the industry, this types of inventions that are commonly available
can present significant challenges, such as in developed countries. There are also
a requirement for additional market-specific indications that some countries are considering
documentation. For example, markets such more widespread use of compulsory licensing,
as China, India, Russia, Vietnam and Nigeria where essentially, an individual or company
now require local clinical data in order to seeking to use another’s patents can do so
meet regulatory requirements. without seeking the rights holder’s consent,
and pays the patent owner a set – usually
Marketing authorisation application (MAA)
low – fee for the license.
requirements continue to evolve in the
emerging markets to align more closely with When patents expire on medicines, these
those in Europe, the USA and Japan, in terms medicines can be subject to competition
of both format and content. from generic products. The effect of this
is particularly acute in Western markets,
Many governments in the region, including
where generic products can rapidly capture
Indonesia, China and India, are looking
a large share of the market. As generic
to expand the population covered by the
manufacturers typically do not incur significant
government-funded health schemes. This
costs for R&D, they are able to offer their
could increase the opportunities for high-
products at considerably lower prices than
volume tenders but also impact pricing.
branded competitors.
Although the specific tools and methods
The same pressures for generic competition
each country implements to control health
do not apply as significantly to vaccines and
spending varies, governments everywhere
other biological products, or to products where
continue to seek ways to manage healthcare
patents exist on both active ingredients and
spending, including spending on medicines.
the delivery device. In emerging markets, a
In many of the larger emerging markets, known heritage or brand for existing medicines
such as Brazil, Russia, China and India, – whether on patent or not – is also valued
governments are attempting to manage costs by patients.
through pricing controls. In several markets,
the authorities are looking for ways to control Consumer healthcare
or help manage the out-of-pocket spending The development timelines for consumer
by patients themselves. For example, India is healthcare products are significantly shorter
introducing price controls on both patented and the intellectual property protections are
and non-patented products. International not the same as for prescription medicines.
reference prices remains a frequent approach However, consumer healthcare products are
to reducing pricing in countries like Turkey, also subject to national regulation comparable
Brazil and Australia. China and Russia are for the testing, approval, manufacturing,
also expected to introduce this soon. Other labelling and marketing of products. High
trends in the emerging markets include standards of technical appraisal frequently
protectionist policies that favour local or involve a lengthy review and approval process,
Cutting red tape domestic suppliers. which can cause delay to our product launches.
New European proposals to Consumer healthcare products also have
Intellectual property and patent
cut clinical trial regulation could protection a greater reliance on brand loyalty and
simplify R&D requirements in trademark protection to create value across
The journey from scientific breakthrough
EU member states all markets, not just those in developing
to approved new medicine or vaccine
countries. This market is becoming more
takes many years and can incur significant
challenging. Retailers have consolidated
costs. To ensure a reasonable reward for
and globalised, which is strengthening their
this expertise and investment, research-
negotiating powers.
based pharmaceutical companies rely on
the protection of their intellectual property
Competition
via patents, trademarks, regulatory data
protection, registered designs, copyrights Our main consumer healthcare competitors
and domain name registrations. include Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson,
Procter & Gamble, Reckitt Benckiser, Unilever,
Patents generally have a 20-year term from Pfizer and Novartis.
filing but, because of the long development
time for medicines, patent life is significantly Competition for our prescription products
eroded before launch. In some countries, comes from other companies researching
some of the lost time can be restored. and making patent-protected medicines with
Sometimes, patents may be challenged indications to treat similar diseases to our
before they expire. Courts may determine medicines. Our principal research-based
that a patent is invalid, non-infringed or pharmaceutical and vaccines competitors
unenforceable, leading to the loss of include AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer,
protection on that innovation in that legal Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson &
jurisdiction. (Significant litigation for GSK Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, NovoNordisk,
is summarised in Note 44 to the Financial Pfizer, Roche Holdings, Sanofi and Takeda.
References statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.) In addition, many other locally-operating
Fig 3 – GVAP plan: http://www.who.int/immunization/global_ We operate in markets where intellectual companies compete with GSK in certain
vaccine_action_plan/DoV_GVAP_2012_2020/en/index.html property rights, particularly patents and markets.
Fig 4 – FDA review process/approvals: http://www.
data protection, are less enforceable as
reuters.com/article/2013/10/29/us-usa-fda-jama-
idUSBRE99R12920131029 governments seek to control prices and
increase access to medicines for their
population by limiting such rights.
GSK Annual Report 2013 11Strategic report
Our business model
Our business model
How we create value
We continute to adapt our business model to deliver
sustainable performance through innovation and
expanding access
Our mission Our people Our insights
Our people are critical to our ability to achieve We continuously investigate the needs of
We have a challenging and inspiring mission:
our mission. We rely on their knowledge, patients and consumers. This understanding
to improve the quality of human life by enabling
expertise and ability to innovate. Every helps us ensure our medicines and products
people to do more, feel better, live longer.
employee is asked to perform with ethical meet the requirements of those they are intended
This mission gives us the purpose to develop
integrity. We strive to create a workplace for while also addressing the specific needs of
innovative medicines and products and make
culture where employees feel valued and the markets where we make them available.
them available to as many people who need
able to take ownership of their professional
them as possible.
development and maximise their potential. Our business model
Our mission is underpinned by a number
See Responsible Business on page 50
of key factors: We have a broadly based and balanced
Our strategic priorities business across pharmaceuticals, vaccines
Our values and consumer healthcare. At the core of our
Our three strategic priorities are to grow
We put our values of patient focus, business model are the concepts of innovation
a diversified global business, deliver more
transparency, integrity and respect for and access. We create value by researching
products of value and simplify our operating
people at the heart of every decision we and manufacturing innovative products and
model. These have been in place since
make. We are focused on integrating these making these accessible to as many people
2008 and are designed to help us produce
values into our culture, decision-making and who need them as possible.
sustainable growth and improved operational
how we work. As well as meeting the quality and financial performance. We have reshaped Improving healthcare and making it affordable and
and policy controls required of us, we continue our business to better align to this strategic accessible to more people is a huge challenge,
to review and challenge our practices to approach and we are now a substantially and one that requires a combined effort.
ensure that our actions meet or exceed the
different company in terms of geography,
expectations of society.
products and capabilities than we were
See Responsible Business on page 50 five years ago.
See Strategic Priorities on page 14
Our mission Our business model Outputs
To improve the quality R&D Benefits to patients
of human life by enabling Discovering and and customers
people to do more, developing innovative
medicines
feel better, live longer.
Cash and profit
generation
Underpinned by
Manufacturing
Our values
Making and shipping
Shareholder value
high standard products
Our people around the world and returns
Our strategic priorities Wider benefits
Commercialisation
and distribution to society
Our insights
Increasing access
to our products
Reinvestment
12 GSK Annual Report 2013To meet this challenge, everyone involved – We have also increased the work we do We have taken a strategic decision to
industry, healthcare professionals, universities, alongside external partners, capturing the introduce more flexible approaches to pricing
healthcare funders including governments, scientific diversity that exists across academia, that reflect a country’s wealth and ability
charities and regulators – need to work research charities and within other companies to pay. In the poorest countries, this has
together. With this in mind, partnership and sharing the inherent risks of R&D. included capping prices at 25% of developed
and collaboration is a key principle of our market levels, and forming alliances with non-
In the process of our research, we grow
business approach. governmental organisations to reduce prices
knowledge and expertise and create intellectual
through high-volume contracts.
We continue to reform our business model. property. Our business model ultimately relies
For example, we have taken industry-leading on an environment that appropriately protects In developed markets, we have pioneered novel
positions to improve global public health this intellectual property and provides us with reimbursement approaches to widen access
through our pricing and access strategies, an opportunity to earn a reasonable return to our newer medicines and priced these at
increase transparency of our clinical trial on our R&D investment. or below current treatments.
data, and modernise our commercial
See Deliver section on page 32 See Grow section on page 20
practices and interactions with customers.
R&D Manufacturing Outputs
Our ability to consistently produce high quality
Discovering and developing new medicines
products and distribute them through our Delivering innovation and maximising access
is a long, expensive and uncertain process
global network is a key part of our business to our products generates value for patients,
that requires us to be highly selective in where
model. Our extensive manufacturing shareholders, and society more widely.
we invest our resources. Our primary goal in
organisation and supply chain makes and
R&D is to develop innovative new medicines Our primary contribution is to make products
distributes our products to over 150 countries
that offer significant improvements over that provide benefits to patients and consumers.
around the world.
existing treatments and so we focus our efforts Successful delivery of this generates profitable
on areas where the science presents new See Simplify section on page 44 and sustainable performance. In turn, this
opportunities most likely to lead to significant allows us to generate value and returns for
medical advances. Commercialisation and distribution our shareholders and enables us to reinvest
As a large research-based company, we Our commercial success depends on market in the business.
have significant scale, resource and expertise presence and customer understanding. We also create value by making direct and
that we can bring to the search for new With our focus on expanding access, indirect economic and social contributions
medicines. In recent years we have challenged we seek to make our products as widely in the countries where we operate. These
the traditional hierarchical R&D business accessible as possible to countries at all wider benefits to society include contributions
model by creating smaller, more agile and levels of income and development. through tax, employment and enhancing the
accountable early-stage R&D groups. A GSK presence in a market is frequently well-being of local communities through our
These groups are tasked with seeking out a requirement before a medicine can be global community initiatives.
the biological targets involved in disease and made available, so our wide geographical
creating the molecules or biopharmaceuticals spread helps with this. In addition, this allows
that will ultimately become new medicines. us to understand the unique characteristics
of each marketplace and adapt our business
model to address specific healthcare needs
and requirements.
GSK Annual Report 2013 13Strategic report
Our strategic priorities
Our strategic priorities
How we deliver
Our strategy is designed to deliver sustainable growth,
reduce risk and improve long-term financial performance
and returns to shareholders
Our aim Our progress
Grow We have been creating a more balanced Total sales grew 1% to £26.5 billion
business and product portfolio, capable in 2013 (3% excluding divestments).
a diversified of delivering sustainable sales growth.
Performance was generated from multiple
This is centred on our three business
businesses and geographies reflecting
business areas of Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines
successful implementation of the strategy.
and Consumer Healthcare.
Deliver We have changed our R&D organisation During 2013, we received approvals
so that it is better able to sustain a for six major new products and several
more products pipeline of products that offer valuable new indications for existing medicines
improvements in treatment for patients and vaccines.
of value and healthcare providers.
We also generated a high volume of phase III
This is underpinned by a focus on data on key assets in our pipeline.
improving productivity and rates
Our estimated return on R&D investment
of return in R&D.
increased to 13%.
Simplify As our business continues to change We have several restructuring programmes
shape, we are transforming how we operate which are on track to deliver total annual
the operating so that we can reduce complexity and savings of £3.9 billion by 2016 compared with
become more efficient. 2007. During 2013 we delivered incremental
model savings of £400 million.
This frees up resources to reinvest
elsewhere in the business. We are also making good progress
transforming our manufacturing network,
supply chain and enterprise wide processes.
Responsible Being a responsible business is central to In 2013 we have made considerable further
our strategy, and how we deliver success progress on our agenda to operate responsibly.
business is just as important as what we achieve. Specifically, we took action to increase
Ensuring our values are embedded in our
transparency of clinical research data and
culture and decision-making helps us better
modernise our commercial operations and
meet the expectations of society.
interactions with customers.
We also made progress on driving access to
medicines in the poorest countries and passed
a key milestone in the development of a potential
vaccine against malaria.
14 GSK Annual Report 2013Highlights Our priorities
Financial architecture
£26.5bn • Successful launch and
commercialisation of new Our financial architecture is
products from our pipeline designed to support the delivery
Group turnover • Continue to invest in key of our strategy and to enhance
growth businesses including returns to shareholders. It is
39% Emerging Markets, Vaccines focused on four key priorities:
and Consumer Healthcare delivering sustainable sales
growth, improving operating
• Look for further opportunities
leverage, improving financial
to increase focus and optimise
Group turnover outside USA and Europe efficiency and converting more
value of our product portfolio
Read more on page 20 of our earnings into cash.
By applying this architecture
consistently, we are driving better
6 and more consistent decision
• Delivery of phase III data for
making across the company
six potential new medicines
and improving delivery of our key
and vaccines and around
financial objectives of earnings
Significant new product approvals 10 NME phase III starts per share growth and free cash
in 2013 across 2014/2015
flow generation, which can then
40 • Continued focus on increasing be returned to shareholders or
R&D rate of return reinvested in bolt-on acquisitions,
wherever the most attractive
returns are available.
Potential medicines in phase II/III
development Implementing this financial
Read more on page 32
architecture helped us to return
£5.2 billion to shareholders
through dividends and buy-backs
£400m • Further cost savings delivery in 2013.
from our restructuring
Outlook
programmes
For 2014, we are targeting
Incremental savings in 2013 • Further roll-out of standardised core earnings per share growth
enterprise platforms and delivery
of 4-8% CER (from 2013 base
10 of an integrated supply chain of 108.4p adjusted for divestments
completed during 2013) on
sales growth of around 2% CER
(from 2013 base of £25,602
Days reduction in working capital
million adjusted for divestments
Read more on page 44
completed during 2013).
The range in our guidance reflects
the transition we expect to see in
60%
• File our RTS,S malaria vaccine our portfolio during the year as we
candidate for approval in 2014 roll-out new products but also face
and, if approved, offer at a not- potential competition from generics
Increase in the volume of medicines for-profit price to older products such as Lovaza.
supplied to Least Developed Countries
• Implement changes on how
since 2010
we incentivise our sales teams
1st
and work with healthcare
professionals
Pharmaceutical company to sign AllTrials
campaign for research transparency
Read more on page 50
GSK Annual Report 2013 15Strategic report
How we performed
How we performed
Key indicators
We measure our performance against a number
of key indicators and the remuneration of our
executives is based on many of these
Group turnover Cash returned to shareholders
£26.5bn £5.2bn
75 13 (18) Reported growth £ %
How we performed
6 During 2013, GSK returned £5.2 billion
to shareholders via dividends and share
5 buy-backs. 4 Why it’s important We continue to focus on delivering 3 dividend growth and returning free cash
flow to shareholders through share buy-
2 backs where this offers a more attractive
return than alternative investments.
1
0
2011 2012 2013
Core operating profit and margina Total operating profit and margin
£8.0bn £7.0bn
(6) (4) – Reported growth CER % >100 (3) (1) Reported growth CER %
(6) (3) Reported growth £ % (6) (4) Reported growth £ %
12 12
How we performed How we performed
10 Core operating profit was £8.0 billion. 10 Total operating profit was £7.0 billion.
31.9%
8
6
8.7 31 8. .2 2% 30 8. .2 0% 1
r
oC e. f0o
fl
sr
e
ape
c
l
e eto r
i
snp c ge pe r n aea t rxt a tpi in g aeg e
llc
y
m p
t e
ooa
d
fi fr n sg it
n
e
in t
c
to
r
bd e3 ye
a
0c hs.l
e
i2i gn s% he
i
ed n,
r
c roo ys at
l ty
8
6
28 7. .2 7% 27 7. .6 3% 26 7. .5 0% T p
e
po
x
ae pt rra c
te
il ae
c
o ln
t
lp
e
yta de og r fia e
n
fst ci p en ro teg i
ba
nm yst s ea
h
sr t ig
g
o ii
n
h
n 2
e
c6d
ro
.e r5
s
oc %
t
yl i
o
an ,
f
le
t
r
s
yed afl in1 le
e
c. c1
s
ot i mng
e
4 income and lower R&D expenditure. 4 and lower R&D expenditure.
Why it’s important
2 Our objective remains to improve operating 2
leverage. The margin indicates how costs
0 0
2011 2012 2013 are being managed as sales grow. 2011 2012 2013
Core earnings per sharea Total earnings per share
112.2p 112.5p
(7) – 4 Reported growth CER % >100 27 Reported growth CER %
(8) (3) 1 Reported growth £ % >100 23 Reported growth £ %
150 150
How we performed How we performed
125 Effective cost control and delivery 125 Non-core items included gains on the
of financial efficiencies enabled the disposal of the Group’s Lucozade and
100 114.5 111.4 112.2 Group to deliver core EPS of 112.2p, 100 103.6 112.5 Ribena business and the anti-coagulant
an increase of 4% (CER). 91.6 products of £1,331 million. The impact
75 75
Why it’s important of non-core items in the year largely
50 Earnings per share show the portion 50 offset each other.
of our profit allocated to each share.
25 It is a key indicator of our performance 25
and the returns we are generating for
0 0
2011 2012 2013 shareholders. 2011 2012 2013
dnediviD
-yuB skcab
dnediviD
-yuB skcab
dnediviD
(3) (1) 1 Reported growth CER %
6.3 (4) (3) – Reported growth £ %
2.5 30 5.6
How we performed 5.2
25 27.4 26.4 26.5 Turnover was up 1%, and up 3% adjusting for disposals in the prior year. This was 20 driven by growth in the USA, Japan and EMAP. 3.8 3.7 15
Why it’s important
10 A key objective of our strategy is to
deliver sustainable, broadly-sourced
5 sales growth.
0
2011 2012 2013
(7) >100
(9)
(12)
-yuB skcab
2.2
1.5 3.4
16 GSK Annual Report 2013New product approvals in the USA New Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product performanceb
6 approvals £1.4bn
3 2 6 New product approvals 47 34 33 Reported growth CER %
How we performed How we performed
6 An exceptional year for R&D led to 6 Sales of new products were £1.4 billion
6 approvals of six significant products in 2013, grew 33% and represented 7%
5 in the USA, helping to drive continued 5 of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover.
4 improvement in estimated R&D internal 4 Why it’s important
rate of return. This measure shows the delivery of
3 Why it’s important 3 sales in each year from products launched
3 This measure shows how the R&D in the prior five years on a rolling basis,
2 organisation is delivering new products 2 2.5 and creates incentives for improved
2
to drive the growth of the Group. R&D performance.
1 1 1.4 1.4
0 0
2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013
Turnover in our major growth areasb Free cash flowb,c
£14.1bn £4.7bn
53 54 53* % share of total turnover (8) (51) >100 Reported growth £ %
How we performed (14) (17) 2 Growth excluding legal settlements £ %
18 We saw continued Pharmaceuticals 6
growth in Emerging Markets and Japan, How we performed
15 together with Consumer Healthcare and 5 Free cash flow was £4.7 billion,
Vaccines. Consumer Healthcare growth the increase of £2.7 billion primarily
12 14.4 14.3 14.1 was impacted by divestments. 4 4.7 reflecting lower tax and legal payments
4.1
made in 2013.
9 Why it’s important 3
This measure focuses on our major growth Why it’s important
6 areas: Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, 2 This measure shows the cash we generate
EMAP, Japan and dermatology. This 2.0 that is available to return to shareholders
3 highlights progress in delivering our 1 or reinvest in the business, as well as our
0 strategy to create broad-based sales 0 effectiveness in converting our earnings
2011 2012 2013 growth that is more resilient to volatility. 2011 2012 2013 to cash through effective working capital
control and investment discipline.
* 55% excluding divestments in 2013
Relative total shareholder returnb,d
a W e use a number of adjusted measures c The calculation of free cash flow
200 to report the performance of our is described on page 58 and a
business. These include core results, reconciliation is provided on page 72.
180 which are used by management for The calculation of CER is described
planning and reporting purposes and on page 58.
160 m simay
i
lan ro lyt b de
e
sd cir re ibc etl dy mco em asp ua rr ea sb l ue
s
w edit h
b y d The constituents of the Pharma Peers
140 other companies. Core results exclude Return Index are listed on page 106.
a number of items from total results.
120 A full definition of core results can be
found on page 58 and a reconciliation
between core results and total results
100
is provided on page 65.
80 b T he remuneration of our executives is
linked to the marked key indicators.
60 Further information on our executive
31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/11 31/12/12 31/12/13 pay policy can be found in our
Remuneration report on page 96.
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
GSK Annual Report 2013 17Strategic report
Risk management
Risk management
Our approach to risk
We have rigorous processes and systems in place to
help assure the integrity of our business operations
which include how we identify and manage the risks
that could impact our business
The management of risk is an important factor
in the long-term success of our business Figure 1: Governance structure of risk management
and is a key focus of our Board and senior
management. Sound risk management helps
us address the inherent risks in our business Board of Responsible for our system of corporate
while creating value for shareholders, Directors governance, strategy, risk management and
financial performance
protecting company assets and maintaining
our focus on the fundamentals of product
quality, safety and sustainability.
Audit & Risk Responsible for reviewing and approving
Our aim is to identify, assess and manage risk Committee the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk
at all levels of the organisation. Employees are management and internal controls
expected to take accountability for identifying
and escalating encountered risks so that
they can be appropriately managed. Our risk Corporate Supports the CEO in managing our
management hierarchy is focused on making Executive Team business and activities
such escalation simple, rapid and transparent.
This approach allows us to balance our level
and type of risk exposure with our ability to
pursue our strategic priorities. Risk Oversight Authorised by the Board to assist the
and Compliance Audit & Risk Committee in overseeing
The hierarchy of our risk management
the risk management and internal control
governance is shown in Figure 1. The diagram Council
activities of the Group
summarises the linked roles, responsibilities
and relationships between different oversight
and management groups. Figure 2 provides a
Business units Responsible for identifying, assessing
representation of the process and framework
and managing risks within their business
around risk management.
We are committed to conducting business
in accordance with all applicable laws
and regulations. Our established company Risk Management Ensure that appropriate internal controls for
policies, standards and internal controls, and Compliance effective risk management are implemented
together with our company values, underpin Boards
our approach to risk management.
Global risk management
The Board is responsible for ensuring that
risks that could adversely impact the company
are appropriately managed, with the oversight
of this managed through the Audit and Risk
Committee (ARC). The ARC will take a holistic
view, looking at our financial results and
controls, the operations or our businesses
and their management of risk, as well as
considering new emerging risks. (Further
information on the Board’s responsibilities
is included in the Corporate Governance section, see page 82.)
While the Board and ARC set the direction
of our risk management and policies, it is
our Corporate Executive Team (CET) that has responsibility for identifying, approving,
monitoring and enforcing key policies
concerning risks and controls that determine how the Group conducts its business.
gnirotinom
rof
ytilibatnuoccA
gnitnemelpmi
rof
ytilibisnopseR
Figure 1: Governance structure of risk management
Figure 2: Our control framework
E
nterprise Oversight O frau mr ein wte or rn ka
,
l
i
nc o cn ot nro jul
nction
Independent Assurance
with our values, helps to
Inde p
endent Bu Rs isi kness Monitoring e
m
on uas
rn
u bar uge
se
t
i
nh
r
eia st
sk
sw
s
ae
a
c
se
t
f
iw
vfe
ie
tc
i
ecti sov .e nl dy
u ct
Disci Epl ni fon re c ea mn ed nt
Management
& CS ot na tn rodW lsar ri dt sten W i cn ose np da e ur ce ct i tos eu n db s
b
je a ync edt
x
t ao teu rd ni ats
l
Business parties, including regulatory
ot P ro blem seR sp o nding Activities Training a a
c
ag cd
o
te e
n
ivn q
tr
ec u
o
li a yle c
f
as ry a,
d
mt o do f
re
ea o
w
ss u
o
ss r re i fikns n.t s e
dW
r it nnh
e
gae sl
M Ma on na itg oe rm ine gnt Communication f tr ao km e ath pe ps roe pa rc iati tv ei t cie os r ra en cd ti ve
actions to improve our
internal controls across
the Group.
GSK Values
Key
Individual Accountability
18 GSK Annual Report 2013 Line Management Accountability with Compliance
Business Management Accountability with Compliance
Audit & AssuranceEach year, CET reviews the risks facing the It is the responsibility of ROCC to ensure each Each business unit and global support
Group and agrees a list of the most significant area of the business has robust processes in function maintains a Risk Management and
risks – referred to as Principal risks – that require place to identify risks, assign clear accountability, Compliance Board (RMCB). The purpose of
particular attention from a Group perspective and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls the RMCBs is to identify specific operational,
including those that could cause our actual results and mitigation plans. Processes are in place legal, and compliance risks that may affect the
to differ materially from expected and historical to ensure business units and global support achievement of business objectives and to
results. A summary of our Principal risks is set functions escalate significant operational help ensure that appropriate internal controls
out below, while a full description of each risk is compliance issues, internal and external audit are implemented. The relevant CET members
presented in ‘Risk factors’ on pages 232 to 241. results, and investigations to ROCC and accountable for different parts of the business
then onward to ARC in a timely manner. each present an annual report to ROCC
In addition, CET considers how each of
and ARC.
the Principal risks could interact across We expect our third parties to uphold the
the company and have a compound impact. same high standards we set for ourselves Our Global Risk Officer and Global Ethics and
Specific accountability is assigned to and establish appropriate governance to help Compliance team are responsible for supporting
designated individuals responsible for ensure that our expectations are met. the effective integration of risk management
developing the overall Group approach to into our business units and global support
those Principal risks identified as having Risk management within the business functions. Audit & Assurance is responsible
a particular exposure in this regard. Operational day-to-day management of risk for independently assessing the adequacy and
The work of CET and ARC is supported by the rests within the business. We are committed effectiveness of the management of risk areas
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC), to being a responsible, values-based business and reporting outcomes to ROCC and ARC.
whose membership comprises senior executives and management is responsible for embedding These groups maintain independent reporting
representing the various business units and global this into our culture, decision making and how lines outside of business management.
support functions making up GSK. we work.
Principal risks
The Principal risks listed below are those we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
They are not listed in order of significance. A full description of risk definition, context, potential impact and mitigating activities is set out on
pages 232 to 241 in ‘Risk factors’.
Patient safety Anti-bribery and corruption
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow-up, or report adverse Failure to foster a culture within the company in which bribery
events from all potential sources. This could compromise the and corruption are unacceptable; adopt measures and embed
Group’s ability to conduct robust safety signal detection and procedures to prevent bribery and corruption by employees,
interpretation and to ensure that appropriate decisions are taken complementary workers and through third party interactions;
with respect to the risk/benefit profile of the Group’s products, investigate allegations of bribery and corruption and remediate
including the completeness and accuracy of product labels and issues identified; and comply with applicable ABAC legislation.
the pursuit of additional studies/analyses, as appropriate.
Research practices Commercial practices and scientific engagement
Failure to protect and inform patients involved in human clinical Failure to engage in commercial and/or scientific activities that are
trial research; conduct objective, ethical preclinical and clinical trials consistent with the letter and spirit of legal, industry, or company
using sound scientific principles; guarantee the integrity of discovery, requirements relating to marketing and communications about our
preclinical, and clinical development data; manage human biological medicines and associated therapeutic areas; appropriate interactions
samples according to established ethical standards and regulatory with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients; and legitimate
expectations; treat animals ethically and practice good animal and transparent transfer of value.
welfare; appropriately disclose human subject research for medicinal
products; and ensure the integrity of our regulatory filings and of
the data that we publish.
Product quality Environment, health and safety and sustainability
Failure to ensure product quality throughout manufacturing Failure to ethically manage environment, health and safety and
and distribution processes resulting in non-compliance with sustainability consistent with company objectives, policies and
good manufacturing practice (GMP) and regulations. relevant laws and regulations.
Supply chain continuity Intellectual property
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product. Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual
property rights.
Financial reporting and disclosure Information protection
Non-compliance with financial reporting and disclosure requirements Risk to the Group’s business activity if critical or sensitive computer
or changes to the recognition of income and expenses. systems or information are not available when needed, are accessed
by those not authorised, or are deliberately changed or corrupted.
Tax and treasury Crisis and continuity management
Failure to comply with tax law or significant losses due to Inability to recover and sustain critical operations following
treasury activities. a disruption or to respond to a crisis incident in a timely manner
regardless of cause.
GSK Annual Report 2013 19Strategic report
Grow
Grow
We continue to pursue our strategy of generating sustained
and broadly based sales growth.
Over the past six years we have created a Regionally we continue to make significant
more balanced business and product portfolio, investments in higher-growth markets, for
capable of delivering sustainable sales growth. example in Asia-Pacific, Latin America and
Japan. We have reshaped our US business
We believe our positions in Vaccines and Consumer
to reflect changing market dynamics and to
Healthcare and in key Pharmaceutical therapeutic
enable the successful launch of the multiple
areas including respiratory and HIV provides
new product approvals we have received over
us with significant competitive advantage and
the last year. In Europe we are restructuring
opportunity for synergies.
to improve efficiencies and focus resources
on growth opportunities in what continues
to be a challenging environment.
Progress summary Group turnover over 3 years £bn
35 1%
Reported turnover grew 1% in 2013 to £26.5 billion 30
(+3% excluding divestments). 2013 reported growth
25 27.4 26.4 26.5 CER%
Performance was in line with our guidance despite
some unexpected challenges and was generated 20 3%
from multiple businesses and geographies reflecting
15
successful implementation of our strategy.
10 2013 reported growth
We saw an encouraging return to growth in our CER% excluding
US pharmaceuticals and vaccines business and 05 divestments
stabilisation of our European business. Reported
0
pharmaceutical and vaccine sales grew 1% in our 2011 2012 2013
Emerging Markets region (+5% excluding China).
Our Consumer Healthcare business also made Sales in emerging markets over 3 years £bn
further progress with sales up 4%, excluding
divestments. 07 2%
6.8 6.7
During the year we completed the divestment 06 6.4
of drinks brands Lucozade and Ribena and two 2013 reported growth
anti-coagulant drugs Arixtra and Fraxiparine. 05 CER%
We also formed an Established Products Portfolio 04
25%
of largely non-promoted brands, which will be
03
reported separately from 2014.
02 2013 % of group sales
01
0
2011 2012 2013
20 GSK Annual Report 2013Building our business
in emerging markets
As part of our focus on emerging markets,
we have invested heavily in Brazil over recent
years. The economy there is expanding quickly,
and – in terms of healthcare – is now the sixth
largest pharmaceutical market in the world.
Pharmaceutical and vaccines sales in our business
in Brazil increased by 6% during 2013, contributing
to overall growth across the emerging markets
region of 5% for the year (excluding China).
As well as expanding sales of our medicines
and vaccines in Brazil, we are committed to
scientific research in Latin America. Through
our ‘Trust in Science’ programme, we collaborate
with outstanding scientific groups to explore
new ways to treat priority diseases.
During 2013, we also formed a collaboration
with the São Paulo Research Foundation to
create a new sustainable chemistry centre.
In our photo: A doctor in a hospital in Rio de
Janeiro. Brazil has more than 320,000 doctors
but also the largest population – over 200 million
– in South America. Their public healthcare system
offers full coverage for every citizen.
References
IMS World Review 2012 Analyst; http://www.abpi.org.uk/
industry-info/knowledge-hub/global-industry/Pages/industry-
market-.aspx
http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SH.MED.PHYS.ZS
http://www.kantarhealth.com/docs/ebooks/brazil-the-gem-
of-latin-america.pdf
Our priorities
Successful launch and commercialisation of new
products from our pipeline is a key priority for 2014.
At the same time, we will continue to invest in
our target growth businesses such as Emerging
Markets, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
We will continue to look for further opportunities
to drive synergies across Pharmaceuticals,
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, and review
our product portfolio to increase focus, reduce
complexity and optimise value.
GSK Annual Report 2013 21Strategic report
Grow
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA
Our US business performed well in a dynamic
and challenging environment and made very
good progress in new product approvals
Turnover £bn Marketplace Cardiovascular and urogenital sales fell
The USA is undergoing perhaps the greatest 16% largely due to the ending of the
08 27% transformation in its healthcare system for Vesicare co-promotion agreement in 2012
007 6 7.0 7.0 7.2 % of group turnover 5 C w0 ia l lr y e me Aa er acs nt. (I cAm hCp anl Ae g)m , e me sn u ft oca rht i p o o an f t iwo ef nh t tih c se h , p A s htf a yfo srt ir s cd ia i anb n 2l se ,0 14, w 1 th5h e%i l Le a lC a mre g icn e tt l ar ya l dl f rN u aee n r ctv o ho igu se es n .S ey rs ict e cm o msa pl ee ts it d ioe nc tli on e d
05 1% payers and the pharmaceutical industry. In Vaccines, a sales increase of 17% was
04 There is significant opportunity for all primarily the result of increases in Infanrix/
healthcare stakeholders, including government Pediarix sales of 23% to £271 million and
03 Reported growth CER% entities, healthcare providers, and private Boostrix sales of 23% to £183 million, both
02 industry, to work together to address of which benefited from competitor supply
the challenges of rising costs, an ageing shortages. Fluarix/FluLaval sales were also
01 population and an epidemic of chronic strong, up 65% to £146 million, following the
0 disease. These factors, along with economic launch of the Quadrivalent flu formulation
2011 2012 2013 uncertainty, are placing greater emphasis in 2013.
on the demand for higher quality care, lower
Operating profit £bn costs and better health outcomes. Portfolio progress
In the course of 2013, six approvals were
05 4.8 5.0 £5.0bn Performance received from the FDA: Breo Ellipta and Anoro
04 4.6 US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover Ellipta for respiratory disease, Tafinlar and
03 Operating profit r tho es e c o1 n% c, l ub su iot ng r oe fw th 4 e% V ew sh ice an r eth ce o i -m pp roa mct o o tiof n M que ak din rii vs at lefo nr t m flue l va an co cm ina e, ,a an sd w a e n lle aw s i Vn ij ie Vc table
02 3% agreement in Q1 2012 is excluded. Healthcare’s Tivicay for HIV. Overall, GSK
Pharmaceuticals turnover was down 1% accounted for 19% of FDA new drug approvals
01 (up 2% excluding Vesicare) and vaccines during 2013 and since 2009 we have achieved
0 Reported growth CER% turnover grew 17%. Core operating profit more approvals by the FDA of new molecular
2011 2012 2013 was up 3%. entities (NME) than any other company.
By therapy area there were particularly The approvals of Breo Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta
Breakdown of turnover strong performances in respiratory, oncology add to the strength of our respiratory portfolio.
Growth and vaccines. Supplemented by our existing products
£m CER % and a further seven that are in late-stage
Respiratory sales grew 7%, with Advair up
development, we are confident in our ability
Respiratory 3,655 7 8% to £2.8 billion. Estimated underlying growth
to maintain a leadership position in this area
Anti-virals 57 (2) for Advair was 6% with some volume decline well into the next decade.
offset by a positive impact of price and mix.
Central nervous system 440 (15) Flovent sales were up 6% to £482 million in A number of other products are awaiting review
Cardiovascular and line with estimated underlying growth for the or decisions by the FDA. We have submitted
urogenital 1,244 (16) year. Ventolin sales grew 4% to £291 million. Arzerra as first-line treatment of chronic
Metabolic 4 >100 The launch of Breo Ellipta began in Q4 2013 lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). We have also
with £6 million of sales recorded in the quarter. submitted an FDA application for albiglutide,
Anti-bacterials 27 30 for adult patients with type 2 diabetes and filed
Oncology sales grew by 17%, reflecting
Oncology and emesis 380 17 New Drug Applications (NDAs) for fluticasone
continued strong growth contributions from
furoate for asthma, and umeclidinium bromide
Vaccines 978 17 Votrient (up 56% to £144 million) and Promacta
(UMEC) for patients with COPD, including
Dermatology 140 (40) (up 33% to £73 million), which benefited chronic bronchitis and emphysema.
from a new indication for thrombocytopenia
Rare diseases 113 (4)
associated with hepatitis C received during
Immuno-inflammation 148 >100 Q4 2012. Arzerra sales grew 18% to £46
million. Oncology performance also reflected
contributions totalling £21 million from Tafinlar
and Mekinist, which were both launched in
Q2 2013 as monotherapy treatments and have
achieved strong initial uptake in the BRAF V600
melanoma market.
22 GSK Annual Report 2013Other developments
In September, the FDA published draft
guidance on how to establish bioequivalence
between inhaled medicines like Advair
that contain fluticasone propionate and
salmeterol administered through the Diskus
and proposed generic versions. We have
submitted comments on the draft guidance.
The FDA has not identified a date for release
of the final guidelines. If any generic applicant
were to seek market entry before the lapse
of Diskus patent protection in August 2016,
it would need to send GSK a paragraph IV
certification.
In November, the FDA eased restrictions
on patient access to Avandia (rosiglitazone)
following an FDA Advisory Committee
review of the results from the Rosiglitazone
Evaluated for Cardiovascular Outcomes
and Regulation of Glycemia in Diabetes
(RECORD) clinical trial.
We continue to see significant improvements
in customer interactions following the
changes we made in 2011 to de-couple Working with government to
the pay from the number of prescriptions
provide bioterrorism protection
issued for our sales representatives.
Following our announcement in December
to change the way we interact with healthcare
Anthrax is one of the most likely agents The raxibacumab contract is the latest
professionals, we will start the process to
to be used in a bioterrorist attack, and in a long line of examples of how we work
implement these changes in the USA in
the US Centers for Disease Control and closely with the US government. We are
2014 and expect it to be in place across
Prevention (CDC) has classified it as a working with the US government and the
the business by the start of 2016.
category A biothreat. Texas A&M University System to establish
As part of our initiatives to support the health a $91 million biodefence and pandemic
Following many years of collaboration with
and well-being of communities in the markets influenza-vaccines manufacturing facility
the Biomedical Advanced Research and
in which we operate, we invested £221 million in Texas.
Development Authority, in 2013 we were
in our Patient Assistance programmes in the
awarded a new contract to provide our In a novel approach to drug development
USA during 2013. These programmes are
inhalation anthrax treatment, raxibacumab, funding, we were awarded up to $200
designed to help underprivileged families
to the Department of Health and Human million in 2013 to develop new antibiotics
in the USA access essential healthcare.
Services (HHS). via a public-private agreement. This marks
the first time that HHS has taken a portfolio
We will provide 60,000 doses over four
approach to funding drug development
years, at a value of approximately $196
with a private sector company.
million ($23 million of which were realised
in 2013) and are proud to be helping protect
US citizens against bioterrorism. This forms
part of a broader five-year base contract.
yrarbiL
otohP
ecneicS/PISB
/ semaJ
inillavaC
GSK Annual Report 2013 23Strategic report
Grow
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Europe
In Europe, we have been restructuring to
improve our business performance and
support new product approvals
Turnover £bn Marketplace Sales of Central Nervous System products
Europe remains a challenging environment fell 11% due to generic competition.
08 19% as governments continue to implement The 3% growth in vaccines sales in 2013
07 austerity measures. was driven primarily by successful tenders
06 % of group turnover France, Germany and the UK all introduced for our rotavirus vaccine Rotarix and Boostrix
5.7 or announced either cuts, freezes or reductions for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis. This was
05 5.0 5.2 flat to the medicines budgets in the course of 2013. supplemented by the launch of our Nimenrix
vaccine for various strains of meningitis.
04
In southern Europe, austerity measures
03 Reported growth CER% have also continued to drive price reductions. Portfolio progress
However, in October 2013 the Spanish
02 In 2013, a number of new products received
government announced plans to repay
approval in Europe. These included Relvar
01 most of its €4.1 billion debt to the
Ellipta for asthma and COPD, Tafinlar
pharmaceutical industry.
0 for advanced metastatic melanoma and
2011 2012 2013 The introduction of Health Technology a four-strain influenza vaccine.
Assessment (HTA) systems is also impacting
Additionally, a two-dose schedule was
Operating profit £bn the European marketplace. Governments
approved for cancer vaccine Cervarix in
are using HTAs to guide decisions on the
05 £2.8bn allocation of healthcare resources, including 9-14 year old girls. Synflorix was also
approved for immunisation against pneumonia
expenditure on medicines. Assessment
04 in infants and children. Approval was granted
criteria are becoming more challenging
03 3.2 Operating profit around what are viewed as acceptable in new indications for two existing products
02 2.6 2.8 3% c clo inm icp aa lr mat eo ars s, u i rn ec sr ,e am ne dn pta al t ib ee nn t e pfi ot ps ua lg ata ioin ns st . i Cn -o an sc so ol co ig aty e; dR te hv ro ol mad be o cfo yr t oc ph ero nn iaic a h ne dp Ta yt vit eis r b,
01 which can be used in conjunction with
trastuzumab for certain types of breast cancer.
0 Reported growth CER% Performance
2011 2012 2013 European Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Other developments
turnover was £5.2 billion, flat compared
We have been restructuring our European
Breakdown of turnover with 2012, as the benefits of the recent
business over the course of 2012 and 2013
restructuring and refocusing of the business
Growth to reduce inefficiencies and ensure we focus
were offset by continued pricing pressures
£m CER % investment into the areas with most growth
and generic competition to a number
Respiratory 1,907 (3) of products. potential. The reorganisation was largely
complete by the end of 2013.
Anti-virals 66 (14) Pharmaceutical sales were down 1%
In Pharmaceuticals, last year we divested
Central nervous system 355 (11) to £4 billion while Vaccines grew by 3%
our anti-coagulant products, Arixtra and
to £1 billion, largely due to an improved
Cardiovascular and Fraxiparine, to The Aspen Group for more than
tender performance. Operating profit in
urogenital 533 2 £700 million. As part of the same transaction,
Europe rose 3%.
Metabolic 42 41 we agreed to transfer a manufacturing site in
By therapy area, respiratory sales were France to Aspen in 2014.
Anti-bacterials 393 (6) down 3%, reflecting increased competition
In December, we announced changes to the
Oncology and emesis 339 28 in many markets. Seretide sales were down
way that we will compensate global sales
2% to £1.5 billion, with some volume decrease
Vaccines 1,049 3 employees who work directly with prescribing
but no net impact of price and mix. Serevent
Dermatology 170 5 and Flovent sales were down 17% and healthcare professionals (HCPs), removing
individual sales targets. These changes will
Rare diseases 129 1 7% respectively.
roll out to our global sales force during 2014.
Immuno-inflammation 8 100 In oncology, sales grew 28% to £339 million,
We also announced changes to how we work
led by sales of Votrient, which increased by
with healthcare professionals. During 2014,
91% to £130 million, as it continued to build
we will start the process to end direct
market share in many markets. Revolade
payments to healthcare professionals for
received approval for use in thrombocytopenia
speaking engagements or attendance at
associated with hepatitis C at the end of Q3
medical conferences by the start of 2016.
and sales in the year increased by 47% to
£55 million. Tafinlar was launched in Q3 2013
in certain markets and has achieved strong
uptake in these early launch markets.
24 GSK Annual Report 2013An openness to offer early
access to innovative medicines
We are committed to ensuring that patients Across Europe, we continue to see an
who could benefit most from our innovative increasing number of patients benefiting
medicines can access them and we are from Votrient, now that it has achieved
developing novel approaches to ensure reimbursement status for two cancer types
we can do this in a sustainable manner. across the region, advanced kidney cancer
and soft-tissue sarcoma.
By engaging with governments, healthcare
professionals and regulators we are By engaging with oncologists, we are
committed to ensuring patients who are also ensuring that eligible patients across
appropriate for our medicines can benefit Europe are able to access Tafinlar ahead
from them as soon as they are available. of reimbursement – at no cost.
When we launched our kidney cancer Initiatives such as these have contributed to
product Votrient in the UK, we agreed to growth in our oncology business in the last
provide head-to-head data against the five years. By bringing innovative medicines
standard of care within two years: if the to market and helping patients with cancer
results were positive we would retain the access these medicines quickly, we are
price; if they were negative we would pay seeking to be a key partner in oncology.
a rebate and reduce the price. In 2013, the
results became available. They were positive
and it was agreed that we could retain the
original price.
Our European business supported a number
of initiatives to support health, well-being and
science education in local communities. In the
UK, we were a major supporter of WellChild,
the national charity for sick children. We
also implemented our science education
programme which works with secondary
school teachers to help inspire young people
to continue their studies in science, technology,
engineering and maths (STEM) subjects,
to help them make the connection between
the science they learn in the classroom and
potential future careers.
We also continued to provide financial support
to Barretstown, a camp in Ireland that provides
therapeutic recreation programmes for children
with serious illnesses and their families.
GSK Annual Report 2013 25Strategic report
Grow
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
EMAP
Our Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific business
delivered strong performance despite political unrest
and economic uncertainty in some markets
Turnover £bn Marketplace Pharmaceuticals sales in EMAP rose 2% to
We remain optimistic about the long-term £3.6 billion (up 5% excluding China). In the
08 18% prospects in the emerging markets and the respiratory therapy area, sales grew by 4%,
07 EMAP region continues to be a major engine led by Seretide, up 4% to £429 million.
% of group turnover of growth for our industry. Characterised Veramyst grew 16% to £71 million and
06 by growing populations, increased GDP, Ventolin sales were up 2% to £171 million.
05 1% more demanding middle classes and Oncology sales grew 18% to £149 million,
04 4.5 4.7 4.7 greater spending on healthcare, the led by strong growth of Votrient (up 77%
business fundamentals in the region are to £37 million) and Promacta (up 92% to
03 Reported growth CER% strong and are expected to remain so £22 million). However, sales of Tykerb and
in the coming years. Hycamtin declined (9% to £47 million and
02
Economic and currency volatility continued 36% to £7 million respectively).
01
to cause short-term uncertainty in some Sales of anti-bacterials grew 5% to
0 countries. Subdued growth can in part be £750 million. This was primarily due to
2011 2012 2013 attributed to price pressures created by an 11% increase in sales of Augmentin
governments more tightly managing healthcare to £393 million.
Operating profit £bn budgets, particularly in Brazil, Korea and India.
Sales of anti-virals fell 20% due to declines
05 £1.5bn Performance in Zeffix and Hepsera.
04 EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover Vaccines sales grew 1% to £1.1 billion
Operating profit grew 1% to £4.7 billion in 2013, adversely (3% excluding China), reflecting strong
03 affected by the ongoing investigation in China tender performances from Cervarix and
02 (3)% and some vaccine supply issues. Excluding Infanrix/Pediarix, partially offset by a tough
01 1.5 1.6 1.5 C weh rin ea u, pP 5ha %rm ina c Ee Mu Atic Pa . l Os pa en rd a V tina gc c pin roe fis t s ina les c exo im stp ina gri s vo an c cw init eh t2 e0 n1 d2 e. r sIn a B nr da z si il g, nw ee d m aa nin et wai ned
0 Reported growth CER% EMAP was down 3%. technology transfer agreement for Boostrix.
2011 2012 2013 In India we finalised a joint venture to focus
Regionally, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
on early stage research and development of
growth was strong in the Middle East/
Breakdown of turnover a six-in-one combination paediatric vaccine
Africa (up 7%), Latin America (up 6%) and
to help protect children from polio and other
Growth South-East Asia (up 6%), partially offset by
infectious diseases.
£m CER % declines in Korea (down 9%) and India (down
Respiratory 877 4 5%). Performance in India was affected by Portfolio progress
government price controls introduced in the
Anti-virals 293 (20) In addition to filing our new pipeline products
middle of the year. However, we continue to
Central nervous system 341 7 be optimistic about business prospects in the in EMAP countries, we are also implementing
a ‘catch-up’ programme, which aims to bring
Cardiovascular and country, as demonstrated by our open offer
more of our established products to developing
urogenital 281 (2) to increase our holding in our publicly-listed
countries. As part of this programme, we
Indian pharmaceuticals subsidiary. We aim
Metabolic 68 9 to complete this transaction in 2014. received approvals for a further 26 products
treating non-communicable diseases,
Anti-bacterials 750 5
In China, sales were down 18%. Our business respiratory, antibiotics and oncology in 2013.
Oncology and emesis 149 18 in China has been the subject of an investigation
Vaccines 1,124 1 by government authorities after allegations of Other developments
fraudulent behaviour. We are concerned and
Dermatology 397 6 Following our announcement in December,
disappointed by these allegations and are
some markets within our EMAP business have
Rare diseases 48 2 co-operating fully with the Chinese authorities.
started to implement changes to the way that
Immuno-inflammation 1 – we compensate our sales employees who
work directly with prescribing healthcare
professionals (HCPs), removing individual
sales targets. These changes will roll out to
our entire global sales force during 2014.
26 GSK Annual Report 2013Across the EMAP region, we are continuing
to expand in the least-developed markets, A new formulation to help those on low incomes
where we estimate there are some 240 million
people who are underserved by healthcare
provision. Our Developing Countries In the emerging markets, we have been We have packaged the actual medicine into
Market Access (DCMA) unit manages our looking at innovative ways to expand individual dose capsules, allowing this to
commercial business in the world’s poorest access to our products. be purchased in quantities as small as four
countries and focuses on volume rather capsules at a time. This cuts the overall cost
For instance, asthma patients in emerging
than profit growth. We have now created of the medicine, enabling more patients to
markets on low incomes have to pay for
a new operating unit to embrace countries buy the medicine in quantities that fit with
medicines directly. However, many of
across sub-Saharan Africa and other Least their cash flow.
these people are often paid on a weekly
Developed Countries. This is the first step
or even daily basis and so the purchase of The new inhaler is available in four markets –
in a broader growth strategy for Africa.
medicines, which are normally sold in large the Philippines, Indonesia, Kenya and Nigeria
We remain fully committed to supporting packs, can be out of reach for many. – and we have submitted it for regulatory
healthcare across all the emerging markets, approvals in other markets. Ultimately we
In response, we have developed smaller
despite the challenges that exist in some hope it will open up access to many more
pack sizes and an inhaler device that is less
countries and regions. We believe that patients who are currently unable to afford
costly to produce. Ventolin Rotacaps uses
improving patient access to medicines and inhaled respiratory medicines.
a re-engineered version of our established
vaccines is not just for patient benefit but
GSK inhaler technology, but one that is five
is also key to the longer-term success of
times less expensive to produce.
the business.
In May, we added to our commitment to
the GAVI Alliance, with a new agreement
to supply Cervarix to four new GAVI
demonstration projects at a significantly
discounted price. We also extended the
Synflorix vaccine supply agreement in order
to protect an additional 80 million children
in the world’s poorest countries from The partnership with Barclays seeks to increase
pneumococcal diseases such as meningitis access to affordable healthcare while helping
and pneumonia. These latest commitments to create improved economic conditions for
add to our existing agreements to supply growth. We will be combining our skills and
GAVI with up to 480 million doses of Synflorix expertise with those of Barclays to help remove
over the next decade and 132 million doses financial barriers to healthcare access, and also
of Rotarix over the next five years. supporting small business development and
job creation, starting in Zambia.
As part of our drive to improve access to
vaccines and healthcare in developing In May, we announced our financial support
countries, we entered into two new for the One Million Community Health Workers
partnerships: one with Save the Children campaign, which aims to train health workers
and another with Barclays bank. The alliance to provide essential services to the poorest
with Save the Children is a long-term communities in sub-Saharan Africa.
strategic global partnership which aims to
help save the lives of one million children
by combining the expertise, resources and
influence of the two groups. It will touch many
areas of our business, in particular using our
R&D knowledge. For more on this partnership
see page 55.
GSK Annual Report 2013 27Strategic report
Grow
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Japan
The strong performance of our pharmaceutical
products offsets a challenging environment for
our vaccines business in Japan
Turnover £bn Marketplace Portfolio progress
Japan remains the world’s second largest In 2013, the Japanese business received
08 6% prescription medicine market after the USA. three regulatory approvals – Arzerra for
07 The vast majority of residents are covered by Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL), Relvar
% of group turnover social health insurance, with the remainder Ellipta for asthma and Paxil for Post-Traumatic
06
receiving public assistance. Demand for Stress Disorder (PTSD) – bringing the total
05 1% high-quality medical treatments remains high. number of approvals since 2000 to 76.
Approval was also received for Xyzal in
04 In April 2013, the government announced plans
January 2014 for allergic rhinitis.
for the further promotion of the use of generic
03 Reported growth CER%
medicines with an explicit goal to increase to We have been focusing on reducing the gap
02 2.1 2.0 60% the generic drugs share of the market. between approvals of pipeline products in
1.7 This has already accelerated generic launches Japan and those in the USA and Europe. In
01
in some categories. 2013, Japan became the first country to receive
0 regulatory approval for Relvar Ellipta in asthma
2011 2012 2013 Performance with its launch taking place early December.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines sales in Japan In September, trametinib, dabrafenib,
Operating profit £bn
grew by 1% to £1.7 billion in 2013. A 9% growth dolutegravir and mepolizumab (for Churg
in Pharmaceuticals sales was partially offset by Strauss Syndrome) were granted orphan
05 £1.0bn
a 76% decline in Vaccines sales. Operating profit drug status subject to priority review.
04 in Japan grew 4%. GSK now has 23 orphan drug designations
03 Operating profit By therapy area, respiratory sales grew 9% in Japan.
to £567 million. Adoair sales increased by 8%
02 4% to £277 million and there was also strong Other developments
01 1.2 1.2 1.0 growth from Veramyst (up 28% to £49 million) The Japanese government reviews the prices
0 Reported growth CER% and Xyzal (up 27% to £120 million). Relvar of prescription medicines funded by health
2011 2012 2013 Ellipta was launched in December and insurance every two years, resulting in average
recorded sales of £3 million. price cuts of 5-6%, and the next revision is
due in April 2014. Discussions between the
Breakdown of turnover Anti-viral sales grew 26% due to the
authorities and the industry around pricing
government’s decision to stockpile our flu
Growth began at the end of the year.
antiviral, Relenza.
£m CER %
In September 2013, we published details of
In rare diseases, sales of the pulmonary
Respiratory 567 9 payments to healthcare professionals. This
arterial hypertension (PAH) medicine Volibris
Anti-virals 230 26 increased 50% to £42 million. However was in keeping with the new guidelines on
transparency from the Japan Pharmaceutical
Central nervous system 307 (5) sales of Flolan fell by 9% due to the impact
Manufacturers Association.
of the price reduction of 2012, as well as the
Cardiovascular and
launch of generic epoprostenol by various We continue to support and invest in the health
urogenital 119 23
manufacturers. and well-being of communities in the markets
Metabolic 50 (17) in which we operate. In 2013, we provided
Several other pharmaceutical products
Anti-bacterials 23 (3) performed strongly. Benign prostatic further financial support for the area affected
by the 2011 Great East Japan earthquake.
Oncology and emesis 63 36 hyperplasia treatment, Avolve (dutasteride),
In addition, we supported our Save the Children
increased sales by 25% to £114 million and
Vaccines 36 (76) partnership through employee fundraising.
became the market leader in January 2014.
Dermatology 28 3 Central Nervous System (CNS) medicines
Rare diseases 184 18 remain an important therapy area and our
anti-epileptic Lamictal performed strongly,
with sales growing 28% to £83 million.
However, generic competition led to a 22%
decline in sales for our anti-depressant, Paxil.
Vaccines sales were down 76%, primarily
reflecting the impact on Cervarix of the
suspension of the recommendation for the use
of HPV vaccines in Japan during the second
half of 2013 and the adverse comparison with
2012, which benefited from the final stages
of the catch-up HPV vaccination programme.
28 GSK Annual Report 2013ViiV Healthcare
ViiV Healthcare saw an important milestone with
the approval and launch of dolutegravir, a new
treatment for HIV
Turnover £bn Marketplace A key element of our International strategy
There are currently 35 million people living with is to create local partnerships with generics
08 5% HIV/AIDS across the world. Around 36 million manufacturers in Middle Income Countries –
07 people have died from AIDS-related causes and at the end of 2013 we confirmed a new
% of group turnover since 1984, with deaths during 2012 estimated relationship with Emcure, to launch generic
06 at close to 4,400 per day. maraviroc as Axentri in India.
05
flat In the USA, the HIV market continues to grow at a
Portfolio progress
04 modest rate. The European marketplace is strong,
ViiV Healthcare filed its investigational single-
despite austerity measures, changing healthcare
03 Reported growth CER% tablet regimen combining dolutegravir, abacavir
systems and the associated pricing pressures.
and lamivudine known as dolutegravir-Trii in
02
Our business outside these regions remains the USA and EU in October.
01 1.6 1.4 1.4 an important priority. This continued focus has
Work on experimental integrase inhibitor
resulted in the establishment of a new Middle
0 GSK-744 continues to progress. A study
2011 2012 2013 East and Africa hub in 2013. In least-developed,
of the long-acting injectable form of this drug
low-income and sub-Saharan Africa countries,
is set to begin in the second quarter of 2014.
the major market issue is one of access.
Operating profit £bn
Other developments
Performance
05 £0.9bn
Access to medicines is a major focus
ViiV Healthcare turnover for 2013 was flat
04 for ViiV Healthcare and during 2013 we
at £1.4 billion as the growth generated by
Operating profit maintained our commitment to supporting
03 Epzicom/Kivexa and Selzentry/Celsentri
people with HIV in 138 countries. The
(maraviroc), together with the introduction of
02 3% the newly approved Tivicay (dolutegravir), was company offers royalty-free voluntary licences
and not-for-profit pricing in all low-income and
01 offset by the impact of continued competition
0.9 0.8 0.9 Reported growth CER% to older products. Operating profit grew 3%. least-developed countries and in sub-Saharan
0 Africa, where 75% of all people with HIV live.
2011 2012 2013 There was strong growth from Epzicom/ For middle-income countries, we take a
Kivexa (up 14% to £763 million) and Selzentry/ case-by-case approach that assesses local
Breakdown of turnover Celsentri (up 10% to £143 million). Epzicom/ needs. All our HIV medicines, including those
Kivexa is performing particularly well across in the pipeline and new breakthroughs such
Growth
all regions of the business, reflecting increased as Tivicay, are covered by this access policy.
£m CER %
confidence in the marketplace and enhanced
Combivir 116 (36) position in local guidelines in both North In 2013 we announced a voluntary licence to the
Medicine’s Patent Pool foundation to improve
Epivir 43 (10) America and Europe.
access to abacavir for children living with HIV.
Epzicom/Kivexa 763 14 The highlight of 2013 was the approval of
In addition, we have a number of community
Tivicay in the USA in August. Physician
Selzentry 143 10 initiatives and currently support over 300
response to Tivicay has been extremely
Trizivir 97 (10) positive and the product launch trajectory projects around the world through Positive
Action, the Positive Action for Children Fund
is on pace with the best recent launches
and our Paediatric Innovation Seed Fund.
in the HIV space. Tivicay recorded sales
of £19 million in 2013. During 2013, ViiV Healthcare also committed
over $2.3 million towards funding grassroots
Regionally, sales in North America grew, driven
projects in the USA, addressing gaps in care
by good performance of Epzicom and Selzentry,
and services for people living with or at risk
together with the launch of Tivicay. In Europe
from HIV/AIDS.
sales declined, with the arrival of generic
competition to Combivir offsetting strong growth We continue to support the Paediatric
for Kivexa. In our International region sales also Innovation Seed Fund, which focused on
declined, with an increase in generic competition five projects during 2013, including a
for the mature portfolio balanced by strong collaboration with the Clinton Health Access
growth for Kivexa in Latin America, Japan Initiative and Mylan Pharmaceuticals. This
and Russia. partnership aims to produce a taste-masked,
dispersible medicine for paediatric use and
in November 2013, Mylan filed a regulatory
dossier to the WHO pre-qualification
regulatory approval procedure.
GSK Annual Report 2013 29Strategic report
Grow
Consumer Healthcare
Consumer Healthcare performance was strong,
particularly in our Oral Care and Nutrition areas,
and was boosted by our renewed focus on
core brands
Turnover £bn Marketplace Skin Health sales grew 5% to £272 million,
The global consumer healthcare marketplace led by Abreva in the USA.
08 20% is wide and diverse, with each individual At a regional level, excluding the non-core
07 marketplace or region presenting its own OTC products divested in 2012, US sales
% of group turnover challenges and opportunities. grew 2% to £951 million, led by strong
06
In the developed economies of Europe, Asia contributions from Oral Care brands, alli
05 5.3 5.2 5.2 2% and North America, competition is intense as and Abreva. This was partially offset by
04 the main market players strive to gain market declines in gastro-intestinal products, due
share via innovation and aggressive marketing. to increased competitor activity, and in
03 Reported growth CER% Increasingly, premium-branded competitors smoking control products.
02 must drive market value by offering consumers In Europe, sales grew 3% to £1.8 billion,
superior, clearly differentiated products to helped by strong growth in products for
01
compete with own-label offerings. respiratory health and pain. Oral Care sales
0 2011 2012 2013 Growth slowed slightly in the emerging markets. in Europe were flat, as strong growth in
In the long term, prospects remain strong, driven Sensodyne and denture care brands was
by an emerging middle class, greater disposable offset by a decline in Aquafresh, which was
Operating profit £bn income and increased GDP. impacted by some supply issues in Q4.
05 £0.9bn Rest of World markets, which include India,
Performance China, Latin America and Africa, grew 6% to
04
Overall, Consumer Healthcare turnover grew £2.4 billion, reflecting growth across most
03 Operating profit 2% to £5.2 billion in 2013. Excluding the categories and markets. Performance in
non-core OTC brands that were divested India was particularly strong with sales up
02 3% in the first half of 2012, turnover grew 4%. 16%. India remains an important market for
01 1.1 Operating profit for Consumer Healthcare the business and this was reinforced by our
0 0.9 0.9 Reported growth CER% grew 3%. investment in our publicly-listed Consumer
2011 2012 2013 Healthcare subsidiary as we brought our
Our Consumer Healthcare business is
holding share to 72.5% during the year.
structured around four categories; Total
Breakdown of turnover Wellness, Oral Care, Nutrition and Skin Health.
Other developments
£m Growth Total Wellness sales, excluding the non-core We extended our approach to innovation
CER % OTC brands that were divested in the first with the launch of the Shopper Science Lab
half of 2012, grew 1% to £1.9 billion. A severe
Total Wellness 1,935 (5) (see case study) and the Human Performance
cold and flu season in early 2013 helped drive
Lab (more on this on page 42).
Oral Care 1,884 6 growth of several respiratory brands. This was
Nutrition 1,096 7 offset by a 40% reduction of Total Wellness These two world-class facilities enrich our
sales in China, driven by regulatory changes. ability to better serve our consumers, by
Skin Health 272 5 deepening our understanding of what influences
A 6% increase in Oral Care sales to
their decision at shelf, and improving our R&D
£1.9 billion was driven by growth of Sensodyne
capability by working with elite performers to
toothpaste for Sensitivity and Acid erosion
understand human performance and applying
which was up 15% and denture care brands
that to new products for mass consumers.
up by 9%.
We also continued with our strategy to
Our Nutrition category grew 7% with emerging
increase the focus on a core portfolio of
markets recording a 14% increase. Family
Consumer Healthcare brands, with a particular
Nutrition (Horlicks) was up 14%, due to
emphasis on emerging markets. An element of
increased consumer access in India and this was the sale of our Lucozade and Ribena
geographic expansion into Bangladesh and
drinks brands to Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd,
Pakistan. In addition, Functional beverages
the Japanese consumer goods company, for
grew by 11% in emerging markets, and 3%
£1.35 billion. We completed the sale at the
in Europe.
end of 2013.
30 GSK Annual Report 2013Shopping the habits of shoppers
At GSK, innovation isn’t limited to our We can use the Shopper Science Lab to
R&D organisation. We also see how explore habits and behaviours to understand
technological innovation could allow us what influences consumer choices. The
to deepen our understanding of what flexibility of the facility allows us to analyse
influences consumer decisions. This will different store layouts, shelf enhancements
enable us to improve the experience for and packaging displays to improve the
our consumers and ultimately increase shopper experience at point of purchase.
sales. The opening of our high tech shopper Through this, we can collaborate with our
research facility, the Shopper Science Lab, retail partners to identify the best joint value
is a significant step towards this. creation opportunities.
It is the largest and most advanced Investing in facilities such as the SSL,
shopper insight and collaboration facility allows GSK to stay at the forefront of the
in Europe, fitted out with cutting-edge science of shopping, giving us a competitive
technology including a virtual insight and advantage in the fast-paced world of
engagement touch screen wall, eye-tracking consumer healthcare. This is completely in
and skin sensors to monitor consumers keeping with our aim of becoming the first
emotional reactions and a mock retail and best fast-moving consumer healthcare
and pharmacy store. company driven by science and values.
GSK Annual Report 2013 31Strategic report
Deliver
Deliver
Our strategy to increase productivity in R&D and to improve
rates of return is underpinned by changes made in recent years
to our organisation and our ways of working.
We have broken up the traditional hierarchical All of this has been underpinned by a focus
R&D business structure to create smaller, agile on improving rates of return in R&D.
and more autonomous teams of scientists.
We believe these changes to our R&D organisation
We have also increased the level of externalisation
and ways of working are allowing us to sustain
of our research, allowing us to explore new areas
a pipeline of products that offer valuable
of science while sharing risk with other groups.
improvements in treatment for patients and
Being more rigorous in how we allocate investment healthcare providers.
across Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer
Healthcare R&D, and changing our processes
so we are able to make decisions earlier around
pipeline progressions, has meant that only those
medicines that are significantly differentiated from
existing therapies are being progressed.
Progress summary New product approvals in the USA
07 6
During 2013, we received approvals for six
06
significant new products, including treatments 6
new product approvals
for the respiratory diseases asthma and COPD, 05
in 2013
malignant melanoma (skin cancer) and HIV, as
04
well as a new vaccine against four strains of flu.
We also received approval for new indications for 03
several existing vaccines and cancer medicines. 3
02
2
As well as gaining these significant approvals,
01
in 2013 we also generated a high volume of
phase III data on key assets in our pipeline. 0
This is an unprecedented level of late-stage 2011 2012 2013
pipeline delivery for the company.
Overall, our return on Pharmaceuticals and Estimated internal rate of return
Vaccines R&D investment has been increasing,
14 13%
due to a combination of greater innovation, 14
effective asset progression and successful 12 13
approvals, coupled with reductions in R&D estimated IRR in 2013
10 11
spend. We continue to target an internal rate
of return of 14% on a longer term basis. 08
06
04
02
0
2010 2013 Target
32 GSK Annual Report 2013Treating HIV
HIV/Aids has claimed more than 36 million
lives in the past 30 years. In the USA, more
than 1.1 million people have HIV. Due to
improvements in treatments, a 20-year old with
HIV on treatment in the USA is now expected
to live until they are over 70 – a life expectancy
approaching that of the general population.
We established ViiV Healthcare with Pfizer in
2009, to focus on HIV treatment and research.
After a long-term collaboration on the joint
development of several novel medicines, we
were joined by Shionogi in 2012.
In 2013, ViiV Healthcare received approval for
Tivicay (dolutegravir), an integrase inhibitor for
the treatment of HIV, providing patients with
a new treatment option.
Parker (pictured) learned he was HIV-positive
in 2008.
“ Being healthy to me means
doing everything I possibly
can to keep my body in the
best shape it can be, so that
I may spend more time with
the people I care about.”
Parker, aged 26, from Texas, USA
References
World Health Organization. HIV/AIDS Fact Sheet. Accessed from
http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs360/en/ Accessed
on December 5, 2013
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. HIV in the United
States: At A Glance. Accessed from http://www.cdc.gov/hiv/
statistics/basics/ataglance.html. Accessed on December 5, 2013
Samji H, Cescon A, Hogg RS, Modur SP, Althoff KN, et al. (2013)
Closing the Gap: Increases in Life Expectancy among Treated
HIV-Positive Individuals in the United States and Canada. PLoS
ONE 8(12): e81355. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0081355
Our priorities
We remain confident in our ability to sustain
pipeline delivery, with a key focus for 2014
and 2015 being the delivery of phase III data
for six potential new medicines and vaccines.
We are also planning for phase III stage
progressions for around ten new products
in key areas such as respiratory, oncology
and vaccines in 2014/15.
Driving improvements in ways of working
across the R&D organisation will continue
to be a priority, so that increasing levels of output
can be maintained without increased expenditure.
GSK Annual Report 2013 33Strategic report
Deliver
Pipeline progress
New treatment options
Our R&D organisation performed exceptionally
well in 2013, with a record number of approvals,
and encouraging evidence of our ability to sustain
this output
Of the six major new medicine files we profiled HIV/Aids Initial phase III data were also received for
at the start of 2013, five were approved: Breo ViiV Healthcare, the company we established darapladib in chronic coronary heart disease
and Anoro for respiratory disease, Tafinlar with Pfizer in 2009 to focus on HIV treatment and the therapeutic vaccine MAGE-A3 in
and Mekinist for melanoma (skin cancer) and and research, gained approval for Tivicay in the melanoma. While the primary endpoint in
Tivicay for HIV. We are expecting regulatory USA and Europe. Tivicay is the first once-daily the darapladib study and the first co-primary
decisions for albiglutide, the remaining asset in integrase inhibitor that does not need to be endpoint in the MAGE-A3 study were not
this group, in the first half of 2014. In addition, used in conjunction with a booster drug, and met, we are in the process of further analysing
we launched our new injectable quadrivalent it has been approved for use both in treatment- these data to determine whether there are
flu vaccine in the USA. naive and treatment-experienced patients. patient sub-groups which would benefit from
these treatments. Further phase III studies of
This is the most productive period in the
company’s history. Overall GSK accounted Vaccines MAGE A3 in lung cancer and darapladib for
acute coronary syndrome will read out in 2014.
for 19% of FDA new drug approvals during During the year we gained approvals for two
2013 and since 2009 we have achieved more new quadrivalent flu vaccines: Flulaval in the We handed back rights to partner companies
approvals for new molecular entities in the USA and Fluarix in Europe. These four-strain for four assets in 2013: IPX066 in Parkinson’s
USA then any other company. vaccines provide added protection versus disease was returned to Impax Pharmaceuticals
traditional trivalent vaccines. due to delays in the anticipated regulatory
Respiratory approval and launch dates; and disappointing
In Europe, our HPV vaccine, Cervarix, received
Within respiratory, Breo Ellipta, a once-daily approval for a two-dose schedule, in addition phase III data prompted us to return rights
combined steroid and long-acting beta to the existing three doses. The European for migalastat in Fabry disease to Amicus
agonist, was approved in the USA as a Medicines Agency also approved an additional Therapeutics, for vercirnon in Crohn’s disease
treatment for COPD, and the same product, indication against pnuemonia for Synflorix to Chemocentryx, and for drisapersen in
under the name Relvar Ellipta, was approved in infants and children. Pneumonia continues Duchenne muscular dystrophy to Prosensa.
for the treatment of asthma in Japan. Relvar to be one of the leading causes of death in We also decided not to pursue development
Ellipta also received marketing authorisation children under five. of Tykerb in either head and neck or gastric
in Europe for both COPD and asthma. cancer, after studies of this medicine in these
indications failed to meet their primary endpoints.
Another new product for COPD, Anoro Ellipta, A strong pipeline
was also approved in the USA. Anoro Ellipta Promising progress was made in 2013 with We remain confident that we are capable
is the first once-daily product to reach the a number of phase III assets progressing to of delivering a strong, sustainable pipeline
market in the USA that combines two long- regulatory filing by year’s end. of potential new medicines. We have
acting bronchodilators in a single inhaler. around 40 new molecular entities (NMEs)
Both Relvar/Breo and Anoro are administered Files were submitted in the USA and Europe in phase II/III clinical development and in
using our novel inhaler device, Ellipta. for albiglutide, a treatment for type 2 diabetes, 2014/2015 expect phase III read-outs for
a single tablet combination of Tivicay and 6 NMEs including MAGE-A3, darapladib,
Oncology ViiV’s Kivexa for the treatment of HIV, Arzerra and mepolizumab in severe asthma.
as a first line treatment for chronic lymphocytic Phase III studies will also start for around
Our oncology business was strengthened leukemia (CLL) and umeclidinium, the long- ten new assets.
by a number of regulatory approvals in 2013. acting muscuranic antagonist component
Two new products, Tafinlar and Mekinist, were of Anoro, for COPD.
approved in the USA for use singly in
In the USA we filed fluticasone fuorate,
metastatic melanoma and, under the FDA’s
the steroid component of Relvar/Breo, as
accelerated approval process, for use as the
a monotherapy in asthma and in Europe
first combination of oral targeted therapies.
submitted Votrient for ovarian cancer.
This accelerated approval is contingent on
the results of the phase III trial, which is We expect regulatory decisions in Europe
designed to evaluate the clinical benefit of in 2014 on Anoro Ellipta, Incruse, Mekinist
the combination in this patient population. and Mekinist/Tafinlar combination use.
Tafinlar also gained European approval,
2013 was an important year for our malaria
and we expect a decision in Europe in 2014
vaccine candidate, with phase III data showing
on both Mekinist and the combination use.
that over 18 months of follow-up, the vaccine
New indications for two existing products in
almost halved the number of malaria cases
our portfolio – Tyverb and Revolade – were
in young children, and reduced by around a
also approved by regulators.
quarter the number of malaria cases in infants.
Using these data, we intend to submit a
regulatory file in Europe for this asset in 2014.
34 GSK Annual Report 2013Six significant new product approvals
Relvar/Breo Ellipta Anoro Ellipta Tivicay
fluticasone furoate/vilanterol umeclidinium and vilanterol dolutegravir
• Combination once-daily inhaled • First once-daily dual bronchodilator • An integrase inhibitor approved in
corticosteroid and long-acting beta-2 to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary the USA and Europe for the treatment
agonist bronchodilator disease (COPD) in the USA of HIV in combination with other
antiretroviral therapy
• Approved in the USA to treat COPD, • Combines two long-acting
in Europe to treat asthma and COPD, bronchodilators in one device • First integrase inhibitor that does not
and in Japan to treat asthma need to be used in conjunction with
• New dry powder inhaler Ellipta, enables
a booster drug
• Offers 24-hour efficacy from a once- simultaneous delivery of both medicines
daily dose • Approved for patients new to treatment
• 27 million people in the USA are
and those who have already received
• New dry powder inhaler Ellipta, enables estimated to be affected by COPD
other HIV medicines
simultaneous delivery of both medicines (National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute)
• Globally, 35 million people were living
• Despite medical advances, more than half
with HIV at the end of 2012 (WHO)
of asthma patients continue to experience
poor control and significant symptoms • 1.7 million people died of AIDS-related
(European Respiratory Review) illnesses worldwide in 2011 (WHO)
235m 4th 35m
people currently have asthma (WHO) leading cause of death worldwide is people living with HIV (WHO)
COPD (International COPD coalition)
Tafinlar Mekinist Fluarix/Flulaval
dabrafenib trametinib quadrivalent influenza vaccine
• A pill for metastatic melanoma, approved • A first-in-class targeted treatment for • A seasonal influenza vaccine that
in the USA and Europe melanoma, approved in the USA protects against four different strains
of the virus
• Medicine targets patients with the • The median age of a newly diagnosed
genetic mutation BRAF V600E metastatic melanoma patient is almost • Offers additional protection compared
a decade younger than that of patients to traditional three-strain vaccines
• Approximately half of all people with
with other cancers (Cancer Network)
metastatic melanoma have a BRAF • Influenza is a serious public health
mutation • The only FDA-approved MEK inhibitor problem that can cause severe illness
for patients with BRAF V600E and and even death
• Melanoma causes 75% of all skin
V600K mutations
cancer-related deaths • Epidemics occur yearly during autumn
(American Cancer Society) • The number of people worldwide and winter
diagnosed with melanoma in 2015
• In the USA, there were an estimated • Vaccination is the most effective way
will be 233,000 (WHO)
9,480 deaths from melanoma in 2013 to prevent infection
(National Cancer Institute) • Only one in two patients worldwide
with metastatic melanoma is expected
to survive for a year after diagnosis
50% 1st 500k
of all malignant melanoma cases have in class MEK inhibitor seasonal influenza may cause up to
a BRAF mutation (Lancet Oncology) 500,000 deaths per year worldwide (WHO)
GSK Annual Report 2013 35Strategic report
Deliver
Investment in R&D
Focus on productivity
We remain committed to improving productivity in
research and development, so we can develop more
innovative new products with greater efficiency
Core R&D expenditure Our primary goal in R&D is to discover and This rate of return is determined by assessing
develop new medicines that provide advances the R&D costs involved in discovering and
5%
on current treatments and are valued by both developing our late stage pipeline projects
patients and payers. against the profits of newly approved
medicines and vaccines as they achieve
15% Over 12,300 people work in our R&D
regulatory approval and become available
organisation and our core R&D spend
to patients. Careful allocation of R&D
was £3.4 billion on R&D during the year.
spending is critical.
Our R&D spend is spread across our three
In 2010, we calculated that our estimated
businesses: Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines
R&D internal rate of return (IRR) was 11%
and Consumer Healthcare.
and stated a long-term aim of increasing
80%
The R&D process for pharmaceuticals and this to 14%. The combination of innovation,
vaccines is long, expensive and uncertain, effective asset progression and successful
and it is difficult to predict which products approvals with reductions in R&D spend has
will succeed or fail. It is therefore important led to an improvement in the current estimated
Pharmaceuticals to drive efficiencies wherever possible to IRR to 13%. We continue to target 14%
Vaccines offset these risks. A key priority in 2013 on a longer-term basis.
Consumer Healthcare continued to be implementing improvements
This improvement in estimated IRR is an
across our R&D organisation, so that increasing
important measure of our financial discipline
levels of output could be maintained without
and our strategic progress to improve the
increased expenditure.
economics of research and development.
The level of regulation and the approvals It also underpins our strategy to create
processes for consumer healthcare products more flexibility around the pricing of our
differ from those in pharmaceuticals and new medicines.
vaccines research as the development times
Calculation of our IRR incorporates actual and
are shorter and the costs are significantly less.
predicted sales figures based on probabilities
Innovation in consumer products is based
of success for medicines in the pipeline.
on developing new products and formulations
We also take into account an estimate of
that meet customers’ needs.
attributable R&D costs, estimated profit
Across all three areas, we make decisions margins, capital investment and working
about our R&D investment based on where capital requirements.
we see the best opportunities, both in the
The calculation for 2013 includes products
market and in the science. We believe this
launched from 1 January 2012 to 31 December
is more effective than determining investment
2013 and compounds in phases IIb and III
requirements on the basis of a fixed proportion
of the development process. The calculation
of sales.
is based on actual sales from 2011 to 2013,
and forecast sales up to 2034, adjusted to
Calculating the rate of return in R&D
reflect expected failure rates, which are broadly
Declining R&D productivity is an issue that in line with standard industry failure rates.
the pharmaceutical industry as a whole has The cost base used in this calculation
faced over the past decade. As a result it comprises an estimate of attributable R&D
has become more important for companies costs and actual and projected milestone
to provide a greater level of transparency on payments where appropriate.
the returns that their R&D organisations make
to determine capital investment allocation.
36 GSK Annual Report 2013Pharmaceuticals R&D
Our search for new medicines
Our pharmaceuticals R&D organisation has been restructured
to create research groups that are more agile, autonomous
and outward-facing. We believe this structure is key to
building a strong pipeline of innovative new medicines
Core Pharmaceutical investment More than 10,500 people are employed in Early-stage research
our Pharmaceuticals R&D business. In 2013 In early-stage research (drug discovery), our
our pharmaceuticals core R&D expenditure aim is to identify the biological targets involved
was £2.7 billion, a decline of 5% compared in the development of diseases and then to
17% to the previous year. When this is viewed in create small molecules or biopharmaceuticals
27% the context of the record number of approvals that interact with these disease targets,
we gained and our strong pipeline outputs ultimately leading to new medicines.
this year, we believe this is evidence that
In recent years we have transformed our
our strategy of increasing R&D productivity
pharmaceutical R&D organisation with the aim
is working.
of enhancing efficiency and productivity. Our
The length of time and costs involved in drug new approach has three key elements. First,
56% discovery and development make it essential we have broken up the traditional hierarchical
that we are highly selective in where we invest R&D business model and created smaller,
our resources. We distribute expenditure more agile early-stage R&D groups called
across early stage research and late-stage Discovery Performance Units (DPUs). Second,
Discovery development, and we focus on those areas we have changed our processes so that we are
Development where scientific advances have opened up progressing only those experimental medicines
Facilities and central support
new opportunities that we consider most that are significantly differentiated from existing
likely to lead to significant medical advances. therapies. Third, we are increasing the amount
We also ensure we evaluate all experimental of research we do with external partners,
products at key points in the development enabling us to access new areas of science
pathway, so we can be confident we are and to share the risk of development.
putting resources in the projects we believe
Our DPU structure helps us to maintain
have the highest probability of succeeding.
flexibility in our discovery research investment,
Our key R&D centres are in the UK, USA, while focusing on the most promising scientific
Spain and China. In 2013 we announced opportunities.
plans to significantly expand and rejuvenate
We had 42 DPUs in 2013. Each DPU has
some of these facilities – most significantly
between 5 and 70 scientists who all work
in Pennsylvania in the USA – to ensure we
on a particular disease pathway or area of
are well placed to maintain our position as
science. The DPU is responsible for discovery
a leader in R&D and to attract new talent.
and development of potential new medicines
through to early stage clinical trials (up to
the completion of phase lla).
Timeline and development stages for pharmaceutical research
Drug discovery
5,000-10,000
compounds
250
compounds
5
compounds
20-100
Number of patients/subjects
yrevocsid-erP
Regulatory Approval Post-marketing
Preclinical Clinical trials
review and launch surveillance
Phase I Phase II Phase III
1 approved
new medicine
20-100 20-100
3-6 years 6-7 years 0.5-2 years
IND submitted NDA submitted
GSK Annual Report 2013 37Strategic report
Deliver
Pharmaceuticals R&D
continued
DPUs are given their own budget, and This is also known as commit to medicine Governance
progress against DPU business plans is development. This decision is typically The R&D governance structure aims to
regularly reviewed by the Discovery Investment made after phase IIa trials, during which the ensure clear accountabilities and product
Board (DIB). Membership of the DIB includes compound is tested in a small number of reviews. The oversight of strategic issues
senior R&D and commercial management, and human volunteers. At this point, we will devise and overall budget management across R&D
external individuals with expertise including and instigate larger-scale studies in humans is owned by the R&D Executive team. There
life science investment experience and an using the investigational medicine to further are three governance boards that determine
understanding of payer perspectives. It is investigate its efficacy and safety. investment over the lifecycle of R&D and early
chaired by the President of R&D. At the same time, we work to optimise commercialisation, beginning with the DIB,
In 2013 we continued to be active in deal the compound’s physical properties and as described earlier.
making and collaborating with external its formulation so that it can be produced Our Portfolio Investment Board (PIB) assesses
companies, individuals and academics. efficiently and in sufficient quantities through the technical, commercial and investment case
In particular we have been active in venture the manufacturing process. In some cases, for each project to progress in development.
funding and were instrumental in the start up of our research may include developing new The PIB is co-chaired by the Chairman of
four venture funds during the year focusing on devices to deliver these medicines (see R&D and the President of North America
different areas of science or regions (see below, case study, Patient-centric design). Pharmaceuticals, and includes the heads
Nurturing the biotech ecosystem). In 2013, we If all of these stages are successful, of each pharmaceutical region along with
also ran two competitions – one with the goal we can use the results of our studies to the head of global manufacturing.
of increasing understanding in the nascent field
submit a regulatory file for approval with The PIB is accountable for investment
of bioelectronics, and the other with a view to
regulatory agencies. decisions and funding allocation across
forming partnerships with academia.
The responsibility for guiding an investigational all late-stage Pharma R&D investments,
Our core discovery expenditure was medicine through the later stages of Medicines Discovery and Development,
£742 million in 2013, down approximately development to filing rests with our Medicines Biopharm R&D, Oncology, Stiefel, Rare
7% against 2012. Development Teams (MDTs), small units Diseases and Emerging Markets R&D.
of six to ten people. This allows investment decisions to be made
Late-stage development in a holistic way, ensuring a balance and
We now have around 40 new molecular
When a compound has demonstrated diversity of assets of differing risk profiles,
entities in phase II/III clinical development.
a potential proof of concept in how it novelty, opportunity, development cost and
works, we make a decision on whether to potential to be reimbursed by payers.
advance it into late-stage development.
Nurturing the biotech ecosystem
Discovery research is exciting and innovative In 2013 alone, we have been instrumental
but also time consuming and high risk. in the start-up of four venture funds focusing
Those factors, along with the global on different areas of science (rare diseases
economic downturn, have resulted in fewer and bioelectronics) or regions (west coast
investments in early-stage life sciences of the USA).
companies over the past several years.
One of those funds, with San Diego-based
A number of venture capital firms have
Avalon Ventures, is ground-breaking in
stopped investing altogether in the sector;
its efforts to fund and launch up to ten
there are fewer investments and the average
early-stage life science companies. The
amount invested has fallen.
first company to be formed out of that
To fill those gaps and ensure that innovative collaboration was announced in December,
ideas don’t get lost because of a lack less than nine months after the fund was
of financing, we have taken a creative formally launched.
approach to early research investment
Through our participation in these venture
through the creation of and participation
funding activities, we gain access to a broad
in a number of venture capital funds,
range of early research programmes and in
including one fund with a pharmaceutical
some cases have an option to buy companies
industry competitor.
that demonstrate scientific promise.
38 GSK Annual Report 2013Projects are reviewed by the PIB at certain
key decision points: ‘commit to medicine
development’, ‘commit to phase III’ and ‘commit
to file’. Funding is generally allocated up to the
next key decision point, typically between two
and four years ahead. The PIB also carries out
an annual late-stage funding review, where
investment in all projects is reviewed, adjusted
if necessary and prioritised. No individual late-
stage project has incurred annual expenditure
of more than 10% of the total annual R&D
expenditure.
Our Commercial Accountability Board (CAB)
is responsible for commercial alignment
and investment decisions on our innovative
marketed products portfolio, governing the
transition from R&D portfolio to our commercial
operations. CAB reviews individual assets at
the ‘commit to launch’ milestone and beyond,
including endorsement of the commercial
strategy and global targets for assets. CAB
also approves investments in phase IIIb/IV
evidence generation, conducts post-launch
reviews and annual reviews of reimbursement
decisions against predicted performance.
Other important governance boards in R&D
include the Scientific Review Board (SRB), the
governing body accountable for the scientific Patient-centric design
assessment of the R&D portfolio to support
investment decision making at the Portfolio
Investment Board (PIB). At the SRB, there
A key challenge in designing inhalers for The Ellipta inhaler is unusual in that
will be a debate, review and endorsement of
asthma and COPD treatments is to make the two compounds that make up the
a unified R&D view on the scientific aspects
the delivery mechanism as simple and Relvar/Breo, fluticasone furoate and
of all assets. The SRB establishes a view on
reliable as possible for patients, while vilanterol, or Anoro, umeclidiminum and
the overall scientific promise of the asset;
ensuring it effectively delivers each dose vilanterol, are stored separately within
development plan to deliver the asset; cost
of medicine. the inhaler, rather than being combined
effectiveness of the clinical plan; opportunities
and stored together. The compounds
and risks to the likely product profile; and GSK has been at the forefront of respiratory
only come into contact when the dose is
gaps where evidence is missing or remains science since the launch of Ventolin over
administered, or ‘actuated’, by the patient.
uncertain. The SRB view is the formal R&D 40 years ago. This year we unveiled the
This means that for two medicines, there
position communicated at the PIB. new Ellipta multi-dose dry powder inhaler,
is no need to blend them together, which
marking the next generation of GSK
Two other important governance boards in R&D would require a new formulation being
innovation in inhalation devices.
are the Technology Investment Board (TIB), developed for each new dual combination.
which makes investment decisions for new The Ellipta inhaler is the result of more
This separate storage is especially
platform technologies and licensing or options- than ten years of design, development
important as not all combinations of
based collaborations up to the point of entry and planning, which involved testing and
medicines can be blended due to physical
into clinical trials; and the New Product Supply tailoring our designs based on patient
or chemical interactions. Where medicines
(NPS) Board, which is the governing body experience. It is designed to be easy for
can be blended, the Ellipta has the
accountable for the technical feasibility and patients to use, with the minimum number
potential to allow three or more compounds
infrastructure assessments covering all aspects of steps: open, inhale & close. It will be
to be stored and delivered. Potentially this
of the physical product and supply chain. used across all our new inhaled respiratory
could enable new treatment combinations
medicines. The Ellipta inhaler was recently
Our Regulatory Governance Board, launched in a single inhaler.
approved to deliver the Relvar/Breo and
in 2012 and led by the Chief Regulatory
Anoro inhalation products.
Officer, operated throughout 2013 with its
focus on enhancing compliance with company-
wide standards, increasing efficiency of
regulatory services, and aligning capabilities
with business needs both globally and locally.
GSK Annual Report 2013 39Strategic report
Deliver
Vaccines R&D
Prevention efforts
Our vaccines R&D is centred on discovering and
developing prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines
to protect people against infectious diseases, cancers
and chronic disorders
Our R&D effort within vaccines is focused Our research on vaccines can be divided
Highlights on the development of new prophylactic into early-stage research and later-stage
and therapeutic vaccines while stringently development. Our aim is to identify and
1,600 managing and prioritising our investment develop vaccines that can help the body raise
decisions. Our core R&D investment in 2013 an immune response against an infective
was £496 million, down 3% against 2012. organism or – with our newer-stage research –
We have more than 1,600 scientists working diseased cells.
Scientists working on new on the development of new vaccines.
As with pharmaceuticals R&D, the resources
vaccines We currently have around 16 vaccines in
required and length of time it takes to discover
development for a range of diseases and
and develop new vaccines means it is essential
16 received a number of approvals and new
that we are highly selective in where we
indications this year (see pages 34-35).
concentrate our efforts. We focus on those
A key part of our approach in vaccines R&D areas where advances have opened up new
is expanding our access to new vaccine scientific opportunities that we consider most
Vaccines in development
technologies. Our acquisition this year of the likely to lead to significant medical advances.
Swiss-based company Okairos is an example
of this. This purchase provided us with access Discovery and development
to a novel vaccine platform technology that The discovery and development of a new
could play an important role in the development vaccine is a complex process that typically
of new prophylactic vaccines as well as takes between 10 and 12 years.
new classes of therapeutic vaccines. This
acquisition also brought in early-stage assets Vaccine discovery begins by identifying new
for diseases such as respiratory syncytial virus, antigens, which are specific structures on
hepatitis C virus, malaria, tuberculosis, ebola pathogens (viruses, bacteria or parasites)
and HIV. or on cancer cells that are recognised by
the immune system. We then produce these
A highlight from 2013 were the results from a pathogens in yeast, bacteria or mammalian
large-scale phase III trial of our malaria vaccine cells and genetically manipulate them so
candidate, RTS,S. This demonstrated that the that they can be purified and formulated
vaccine continued to protect young children in to a vaccine. It is the antigen that creates
and infants from clinical malaria up to 18 months the body’s immune response.
after vaccination.
Vaccines research and development cycle
Registration/
Identify Produce Pre-Clinical Proof of
Phase I Phase II Phase III File Post marketing
Antigens Antigens Testing concept
surveillance
Research (including Immunology)
Pre-clinical development
Clinical development (including Post marketing surveillance)
Transfer process to manufacturing
1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years >1 year
40 GSK Annual Report 2013In some cases, the formulation of the vaccine
into clinical lots involves mixing antigens with
our proprietary adjuvant systems. We use
adjuvants to improve the immune system’s
response to antigens contained in vaccines
and we have been innovating in the area of
adjuvant systems for more than 20 years.
Candidate vaccines are usually a combination
of several antigens, and the final composition
of the vaccine (antigens and adjuvant) may
change over time.
Traditionally, vaccines have been used to
prevent illness. However, we are pioneering
a different approach designed to programme
the body’s immune system to fight existing
diseases and this represents a new treatment
model as a therapeutic vaccine. We are
evaluating the immunotherapeutic concept
against a variety of tumour types.
The first read out on phase III data from our
investigational MAGE-A3 antigen-specific
cancer immunotherapeutic in melanoma The science of the supply chain
patients came through in 2013. While the
trial did not meet its first co-primary endpoint,
we will be continuing the trial until the second
Many vaccines need to be kept at a constant This initiative is part of a vaccine discovery
co-primary endpoint is assessed, with results
temperature – between 2C and 8C – from partnership that was unveiled in October
expected in 2015. The same asset is also in
manufacture up until administration. This 2013 in Brazil, which would also fund
development in lung cancer, and phase III
cold-chain, as it is known, is considered by research into other biomedical technologies
data for this indication will read out in 2014.
many to be the biggest challenge in getting that have the potential to overcome a
Partnerships and collaborations, both with vaccines out to people around the world, significant and long-standing barrier to
scientific partners and funding bodies, play particularly in hot, remote and resource- vaccine access in developing countries.
an increasingly important role in our vaccines limited regions. Overall the partnership aims to integrate
research. An example of our collaborative key players in vaccine development –
In an effort to overcome this challenge, we
approach is a new research agreement with biotechnology institutions, pharmaceutical
signed an early stage research partnership
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) companies, non-government organisations
with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
which aims to accelerate advances in vaccine (NGOs) and academia – to drive advances
(BMGF) this year. The $1.8 million agreement
R&D that have the potential to transform in vaccine R&D that have the potential to
will support research into seeing if we
global health. transform global health.
can make some of our vaccines more
Our R&D efforts also include the lifecycle heat stable, thus reducing the need for
management of vaccines already on the market continuous refrigeration.
and those that we anticipate will emerge from
the pipeline. We do this to increase the value
our products can bring, by extending their
reach and adapting them to ensure they
meet the needs of patients. There are several key decision points in the The board has an overall view of both early and
vaccine development process: commit to advanced projects. It is chaired by our senior
Governance research (decide to initiate full research vice presidents for discovery and development.
programme), commit to candidate development All VDCB recommendations to progress
In 2012 we further consolidated the organisation
(decide to invest resources to move to clinical projects are submitted to VIB.
of vaccine discovery and development teams,
development); commit to early clinical
to simplify the infrastructure, focus on timely The VIB is chaired by our President of Vaccines.
development; commit to phase III; registration
decision making and enhance clarity and This board makes the final decision on whether
and launch.
accountability. Since then, we have continued to invest in a project, by evaluating the VDCB’s
to improve efficiency through investment in Oversight of these key decisions rests with recommendation alongside public health
operational transformation programmes. two bodies the Vaccine Development and benefit, business opportunity, development
Commercial Board (VDCB) and the Vaccine costs and risks, the project timing and overall
We have continued to emphasise the
Investment Board (VIB). evolution of our portfolio of vaccines.
importance of our Project teams and Vaccine
Leadership Teams, which are responsible The VDCB reviews the research project
for day-to-day progress of our research strategy and advises on its scientific, technical
and development, including identifying and commercial feasibility.
and developing new products.
skoorB
nairdA/IVAG
GSK Annual Report 2013 41Strategic report
Deliver
Consumer Healthcare R&D
Product innovation
Our ongoing commitment to innovation, creating new,
scientifically differentiated products, is demonstrated
by the 13% contribution to global sales from these
products in 2013
Our ‘innovation portfolio’ is critical to how Sensodyne Repair & Protect
Highlights we continue to grow our Consumer Healthcare Our Oral Care innovation continued to lead the
business. Our focus is on creating a continual sensitive teeth category with the introduction
£178m pipeline of new, scientifically differentiated of Sensodyne Repair & Protect in the USA.
products which define our four Consumer By developing a novel non-aqueous stannous
Healthcare categories. fluoride formulation, our Oral Care R&D team
Through new technologies and formulations were able to help consumers who deal with
R&D investment in 2013 we provide products that meet the needs of dentin hypersensitivity. The active ingredient
consumers and are valued by experts. These in Sensodyne Repair & Protect, stannous
reinforce our leadership positions, particularly fluoride, builds a repairing layer over the
13% in areas such as sensitive teeth, family nutrition vulnerable areas of teeth, to help protect from
and smoking cessation. pain. Due to its instability in water, it has not
been used in oral health products for many
Our commitment to innovation was reflected
years. Addressing the stability issues and
in our investment of £178 million in core
of global sales from innovative products incorporating into the product formulation,
Consumer Healthcare R&D in 2013, which Sensodyne Repair & Protect provides proven
increased 14% from 2012. Overall, 13% of
and effective lasting relief from the twinge of
sales came from innovative products launched
sensitivity and offers everyday cavity protection
in recent years. Key contributions came from:
with fluoride.
NiQuitin Strips
Women’s Horlicks
Launched in 2013, NiQuitin Strips is the first
Continuing the success of our range of
and only oral stop-smoking aid in a strip format Horlicks across the Indian sub-continent,
designed for light smokers. The patented we launched Women’s Horlicks. This
formula that suspends nicotine in a polymer
scientific formulation specifically meets
system/water soluble matrix, combined with
the unique nutritional needs of women in
the thin format, enables it to dissolve in the
the region. Designed to include 100% of
mouth in approximately 3 minutes. Clinical
the daily requirements of iron, calcium,
studies have shown its effectiveness in
folate and other vital nutrients, the product
relieving the urge to smoke in 50 seconds,
has become the first health drink for women
allowing consumers to benefit from fast,
in India with the complete list of macronutrients
effective craving relief in a discrete format.
to be recommended by the World Health
We have already launched this product in
Organization.
three markets.
The study of human performance
The GSK Human Performance Lab is a With this scientific data and performance
leading science facility focused on applied results, our scientists can apply the research
and discovery research. It combines our to developing new products that not only
science expertise, external advisors and meet, but anticipate the health needs of the
cutting-edge technology to deepen our wider population.
understanding of human performance.
By working in partnership with individuals
and organisations committed to elite human
performance – professional athletes, sports
governing bodies, sports teams, extreme
explorers – we will be able to improve our
understanding of how the body and brain
function and what can be done to drive
improvements in human performance.
42 GSK Annual Report 2013Pipeline progress
Late stage summary
Our pipeline remains extensive. In total we have around 40 new molecular entities (NMEs) in phase II/III clinical development. A summary of
pharmaceuticals and vaccines in phase III development is set out below. A more comprehensive list of our medicines and vaccines in phases I to III
of development is available on pages 225-228.
Therapeutic area Compound Indication Phase III Filed Approved
Respiratory mepolizumab severe asthma (also eosinophilic granulomatosis •
with polyangiitis)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta COPD – mortality outcomes •
(vilanterol† + fluticasone furoate)
vilanterol† COPD •
fluticasone furoate asthma •
Incruse Ellipta* (umeclidinium) COPD (also hyperhidrosis) •
Anoro Ellipta (umeclidinium + vilanterol†) COPD •
Relvar/Breo Ellipta asthma •
(vilanterol† + fluticasone furoate)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta COPD •
(vilanterol† + fluticasone furoate)
Paediatric Vaccines MMR measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis • (US)
Mosquirix (Malaria RTS,S)† malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) •
Nimenrix (MenACWY-TT) Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease •
prophylaxis
Other Vaccines Zoster† Herpes Zoster prophylaxis •
Flu (pre-) pandemic pre-pandemic & pandemic influenza prophylaxis •
Flu vaccine seasonal influenza prophylaxis •
Antigen-Specific Cancer MAGE-A3 immunotherapeutic† treatment of melanoma •
Immunotherapeutic MAGE-A3 immunotherapeutic† treatment of non-small cell lung cancer •
HIV dolutegravir + abacavir HIV infections – fixed dose combination •
sulphate + lamivudine
Tivicay (dolutegravir) HIV infections •
Oncology Arzerra (ofatumumab)† chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, use in relapsed patients •
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† diffuse large B cell lymphoma (relapsed patients) •
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† follicular lymphoma (refractory & relapsed patients) •
Mekinist (trametinib)† metastatic melanoma, adjuvant therapy •
+ Tafinlar (dabrafenib)
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) breast cancer, neo-adjuvant & adjuvant therapy •
Votrient (pazopanib) renal cell cancer, adjuvant therapy •
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy •
Votrient (pazopanib) ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy •
Mekinist (trametinib)† metastatic melanoma •
Mekinist (trametinib)† metastatic melanoma •
+ Tafinlar (dabrafenib)
Revolade/Promacta hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia •
(eltrombopag)†
Tafinlar (dabrafenib) metastatic melanoma •
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) metastatic breast cancer, in combination with •
trastuzumab
Cardiovascular & darapladib atherosclerosis (also diabetic macular oedema) •
Metabolic Eperzan (albiglutide) type 2 diabetes •
Immuno-inflammation Benlysta s.c. (belimumab) systemic lupus erythematosus •
Benlysta (belimumab) vasculitis •
sirukumab† rheumatoid arthritis •
Rare diseases 2696273† adenosine deaminase severe combined immune •
deficiency (ADA-SCID)
mepolizumab eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis •
(also severe asthma)
Volibris (ambrisentan)† chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension •
Infectious diseases Relenza i.v. (zanamivir)† influenza •
Dermatology Toctino (alitretinoin)† chronic hand eczema •
Duac low dose acne vulgaris •
† In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party
* The use of the brand name is not approved by any regulatory authorities
GSK Annual Report 2013 43Strategic report
Simplify
Simplify
Reducing complexity in our business remains a central element
of our strategy. In doing so we can stop waste and inefficiencies
and reinvest savings elsewhere in the business.
Over the last six years we have been implementing We are also investing in new technology
significant restructuring programmes. to streamline different parts of the business
including manufacturing, supply chain,
We are transforming our global manufacturing
finance and HR.
network and supply chain to make it more
efficient and better able to respond to the
needs of our customers and patients.
Progress summary Restructuring annual savings £bn
07 £3.0bn
We are undertaking a broad range of restructuring
change programmes which began from 2007 onwards 06
restructuring savings
and are simplifying many areas of our business from 05 in 2013
supply chains to finance, HR and R&D.
04
In total, our ongoing restructuring programmes 3.9
delivered annual savings of £3.0 billion in 2013 and are 03
3.0
expected to deliver £3.9 billion of annual savings by 02 2.5
2016. Year on year incremental savings from ongoing
and structural programmes were £400 million in 2013. 01
Safety and quality remain the priority of our 0
2012 2013 Target
manufacturing and supply organisation. We are (2016)
transforming our operations to improve service for
end customers and ensure safety and sustainability
Working capital days
in our operations.
We have created six regional business centres across 210 10
the globe to bring together support functions in order 180 202 194
to streamline and standardise functional support to 176 working capital
the businesses. 150 days improvement in
2013 (adjusted for
Our global ERP system deployment made significant 120
divestments in 2013
progress in 2013, with 70% of our European
90 and intangible asset
Pharmaceutical revenue and 25% of our European impairments)
Consumer Healthcare revenue now on the system. 60
The creation of the Established Products Portfolio 30
allows us to better allocate resources to the new
0
portfolio of medicines while also achieving reduction 2011 2012 2013
in inefficiencies and realising some opportunities
for reinvestment.
44 GSK Annual Report 2013Proximity production
Sales of our Oral care products, Polident
and Poligrip, increased by 10% in 2013
and are projected to grow significantly over
the coming years.
As part of our ongoing efforts to create a
streamlined and flexible supply chain, we moved
the manufacturing of the active ingredient in
Poligrip and Polident from a factory in the USA
to Cork, Ireland in 2013. Now the ingredient
travels just 50 miles down the road to where
the products are manufactured in Dungarvan.
This is expected to produce a 17% reduction
in the Poligrip cost of goods by 2017 and will
also reduce carbon emissions.
Pictured: One of our employees at our Dungarvan
site in Ireland.
“ The production of the active
ingredient in Cork will
dramatically increase the speed
of response to any changes in
customer demand, as well as
reducing the cost of production
and delivery.”
Joe Power, VP and site director, Cork
Our priorities
We continue to restructure and simplify our
business to reduce the long-term cost base.
In manufacturing we will continue to focus on
delivering products of value at optimal cost and
reduce pack presentations, manufacturing defects
and waste.
We will fast track the implementation of the
integrated supply chain supported by enterprise
resource planning (ERP) in order to improve supply
service levels, reduce stock outs and reduce the
cost of the supply chain.
In Core Business Services we will continue to
migrate services and focus on improving service
efficiency and effectiveness.
We will also manage our Established Products
Portfolio to reduce complexity, enhance profitability
and optimise the value of this group of products.
GSK Annual Report 2013 45Strategic report
Simplify
Simplify
Our operating model
In 2013 we continued to transform our operating model
to reduce costs and complexity and improve efficiency
The transformation of our operating model and We have 86 sites in 36 countries manufacturing Further simplification in our supply chain is
processes remains a key business strategy, our pharmaceuticals, consumer healthcare driving greater efficiency in areas including
enabling us to standardise and streamline products and vaccines. Our GMS division is logistics and warehousing, procurement,
important aspects of our business, including responsible for 72 of these sites, employing portfolio simplification and manufacturing.
our supply chain. more than 27,000 people who make and These programmes are at an early stage but
supply our Pharmaceutical and Consumer have already reduced volatility and improved
Our restructuring programmes are continuing
Healthcare products. The remaining 14 sites, responsiveness allowing better inventory
to contribute and support the delivery of
employing 7,500 staff, are run by our management which has already delivered
significant savings. These savings are then
Vaccines business. £100 million of benefits in our Pharmaceutical
available to be re-invested in our priority
supply chain in 2013.
growth businesses, new product launches, We continue to review this network and
or returns to shareholders. seek opportunities to optimise its operations. We have also been reducing the complexity
During 2013, we closed three smaller of our portfolio of existing products. By
Restructuring progress manufacturing sites in Singapore, USA and discontinuing unprofitable packs and
We began our Operational Excellence Mexico, sold our Coleford site in the UK as standardising pack presentation formats we
restructuring programme in 2007. This part of the divestment of our Lucozade and are improving operational efficiency while
programme remains on track to deliver Ribena brands and announced that one further ensuring patient and customer needs are met
£2.8 billion of annual savings in 2014. site would leave our network in 2014. We also (see case study opposite). This year we have
completed the integration of the former Human reached our target of 10% discontinuations by
In 2013 as this programme was coming to Genome Science manufacturing site in the year end and remain on target to achieve the
a close, we announced a new Major Change USA, and acquired the DeMiclen Consumer reduction of 25% of packs in our portfolio over
programme with a focus on improving supply Healthcare manufacturing facility in Slovakia the four-year period to 2016.
chain processes, building capabilities in to support growth.
manufacturing and R&D, and restructuring
Core Business Services
our European business. This programme is We have invested in our manufacturing network
in its early stages and remains on track to throughout the year, with commitments totalling The Core Business Services (CBS) group
deliver £1 billion of annual savings by 2016. more than £300 million being announced was set up in 2011 to bring together support
Together, these two restructuring programmes across key centres such as the UK and India functions including facilities management, HR,
produced annual savings of £3.0 billion in 2013. to implement improvements and technological IT, finance and procurement, into a centralised
advances into our manufacturing processes. team to streamline and standardise these
In addition to these programmes, we began operations. Our aim is to increase productivity,
a separate structural initiative in 2012 to Supply chain progress and free up time in the businesses so they can
reshape our long-term operating expenses and focus on the execution of business strategy in
GMS has aligned organisationally to a
liabilities. In 2013 this produced a reduction their local markets, and reduce the number of
new model with responsibility for the entire
of approximately £280 million in our long-term global support staff.
Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare
employment costs through restructuring of our
supply chains – from the supplier through We have invested in a global enterprise
post-employment medical benefits. In 2012
to delivery to the customer – creating a fully resource planning (ERP) system which is
there was a benefit of £395 million when we
integrated supply chain. playing an important role in reducing costs,
restructured our pension obligations.
improving service levels and reducing working
Since 2011 our Consumer Healthcare
Taking these ongoing and structural initiatives capital in manufacturing, the supply chain and
business has been reforming and simplifying
together in 2013, we delivered incremental commercial operations. Roll-out of the ERP is
its supply chain model to implement this
year-on-year savings of around £400 million on time and on budget.
end-to-end chain. This has delivered over
with a similar amount expected in 2014 helping
£300 million in savings since it began and Following the positive start made in 2012,
to offset mix pressure and fund ongoing
created greater operating flexibility, allowing further progress was made through 2013 in
investment requirements.
us to deliver products to customers more enrolling our European pharmaceutical and
We have also continued our integration of quickly and efficiently. vaccines markets on our commercial ERP
Human Genome Sciences into the business, system. 70% of our European Pharmaceuticals
We have transferred the learnings from
and restructuring benefits in 2013 from this revenues and 25% of our Consumer
this during 2013 to our Pharmaceuticals
were around £130 million. Healthcare revenues are now on the system.
manufacturing operations, creating supply
chain structures aligned from supplier through In 2013, we completed advance deployment
Global manufacturing and supply
to delivery to customer. of the forecasting and planning element of the
The global manufacturing and supply ERP system to markets in Latin America. Now
(GMS) division is focused on delivering Our Vaccines supply chain is also all GSK businesses in the region forecast and
a transformational plan to enable us to implementing an end-to-end transformation plan on the same system to the same data
manufacture and supply both the new programme to improve customer service, standards. This has enabled the consolidation
product portfolio and our existing products reduce inventories through lead-time reduction, of reporting and business analysis.
to consistently high quality and with and to improve forecast accuracy. In 2013 our
increased efficiency. key priorities here were the implementation of
end-to-end inventory management, and of a
new sales and operational planning process.
These are well underway and will be finalised
by the end of 2014.
46 GSK Annual Report 2013Cutting variation in a drive to enhance productivity
At the beginning of 2013, we conducted an As a result, we were able to discontinue 8% This initiative is particularly important for
audit which identified that our manufacturing of the Imigran pack formats during 2013 our Established Products Portfolio (EPP).
group was making our migraine treatment, and expect to cut a further 5% in 2014. EPP comprises around 50 products, as
Imigran, in more than 360 different packs We achieved these cost reductions with well as our branded generics business and
of varying size and quantity of tablets. no change in total supply of the medicine. other local products that, together, make up
Each different pack format required a unique By discontinuing the least popular pack annual sales of around £4 billion. Many of
manufacturing process, meaning that the formats, we have more resource to ensure these products are no longer promoted, and
more pack formats we make, the greater we continue to meet demand for the most so it is important that operating costs and
the cost and complexity of manufacturing. popular Imigran packs. processes for these products are simplified
as far as possible, to allow us to focus on
In a bid to reduce these costs, we looked at The reduction in pack formats for this
new product launches and products with
ways to simplify the number of pack formats. product was just one part of an overall
the greatest growth potential.
This involved a review of all of the Imigran global initiative that we started in 2013
packs and listening to patients to find out to reduce our number of packs by around
which pack formats they liked best. 20%. In 2013, we discontinued 10% of
our pack formats and we are aiming to cut
a further 9% of our overall number of pack
formats by the end of 2014.
We are also accelerating the deployment of Under the umbrella of CBS we have also
improved forecasting and planning processes conducted a number of targeted programmes
across the Group, enabled by ERP. This should to simplify our business and take out costs.
result in a reduction in supply chain operating In IT, for example, the introduction of new
costs, reduced inventory levels, and improved global platforms to run standard enterprise-
forecasting. The roll out is expected to be wide processes and reduce the number of
completed by mid 2015. individual business applications has seen the
organisation decommission 407 applications
A key element of the CBS approach has been
since the beginning of 2012 – 8% of the total.
the creation of six regional multifunctional
business service centres that will focus on By developing global category strategies,
delivering robust and effective services to we have begun to standardise the material
the markets, sites and regions. In 2013, we specifications and removed complexity from
opened four centres – one in Costa Rica, two our supply base.
in the USA and one in the UK – complementing
In HR, we started implementing the people
those in Kuala Lumpur and Poland that began
management element of the system globally.
operation in 2012. This global network is the
By the end of 2013, all the GSK and agency
foundation for standardising and continuously
employees in Canada and Latin America were
improving the support services offered to all
on the system.
business units. This centralised model will
improve process efficiency and effectiveness
and free up time in the businesses so they can
focus on the execution of business strategy in
their local markets.
GSK Annual Report 2013 47Strategic report
Our financial architecture
Our financial architecture
Our financial architecture is designed to support
the execution of our strategy and to enhance
returns to shareholders
GSK’s financial architecture is focused on The £280 million contribution from structural Earnings per share
four key priorities: delivering sustainable benefits in 2013 which related to savings In 2013, the significant progress in improving
sales growth, improving operating leverage, in our long-term employment costs through our financial efficiency, together with our
improving financial efficiency and converting restructuring of our post-employment medical continued share buy-back programme, enabled
more of our earnings into cash. benefits was approximately £115 million lower us to deliver core EPS up 4% to 112.2p which
Our financial architecture is designed to than in 2012 when we restructured our pension was at the top end of our EPS guidance range
ensure we are maximising the returns from obligations. of 3% to 4%.
more sustainable sales growth. To do this We remain focused on managing our cost In 2014, we expect to deliver core EPS
we continue to simplify our business, allocate base more effectively. Our Operational growth of 4-8% CER, on turnover growth of
our resources more efficiently and flexibly Excellence programme was initiated in 2007 around 2% CER, on an ex-divestment basis
and build leverage across the P&L to drive and remains on track to deliver annual savings (2013 EPS base of 108.4p, turnover base
earnings per share faster than sales and in of £2.8 billion in 2014. In addition our new £25.6 billion).
turn convert more of those earnings into cash major change programme, announced in
that we can reinvest in the business and return 2013 is on track to deliver pre-tax savings Cash conversion
to shareholders, wherever the returns look of at least £1 billion by 2016.
The business remains highly cash-generative
most attractive.
We continue to balance cost savings with and we continue to focus on improving
By applying this architecture consistently, continued investment in the business to conversion of earnings into cash through
we are driving better and more consistent support the new launches of our R&D pipeline, greater focus on cash generation and capital
decision making across the company. which will be a key driver of future sales allocation. A particular focus is on working
Our capital allocation decisions are growth. With increasing contributions from capital and in 2013 we continued to make
rigorously benchmarked using a Cash Flow pipeline sales in 2014 onwards, we remain progress. Excluding the distorting impact
Return on Investment (CFROI) framework. confident that we can drive improvement in the of disposals and intangible write-offs, we
core operating margin over the medium term. reduced the working capital conversion cycle
Sales growth by ten days in 2013.
Reported sales in 2013 grew 1% to £26.5 billion. Financial efficiency On a cash basis, we delivered an additional
Excluding the impact of product disposals Despite the pressure on the operating margin £46 million of savings despite renewed growth
made in 2012, sales grew 3%. Five businesses in 2013, financial efficiencies delivered in many of our businesses and the need to start
– respiratory, oncology, Vaccines, ViiV significant value during the year and building inventory behind our new launches.
Healthcare and Consumer Healthcare – contributed positive leverage to our reported We are developing an end-to-end supply chain
accounted for around 70% of sales in 2013 core earnings per share (EPS). that joins our manufacturing and commercial
and grew by 4% (CER). As we move into 2014, We made further financial efficiency gains businesses to increase visibility, accountability
we expect to deliver sales growth of around in 2013, taking advantage of an era of low and flexibility, hence reducing the inventory
2% CER (excluding products divested in 2013). interest rates to secure more attractive required and releasing cash.
long-term funding rates, without losing
Operating leverage flexibility. Overall we have reduced net funding Returns to shareholders
In 2013, core operating profit was flat at CER. costs by 3 percentage points since 2010 Free cash flow is available to invest in
On a reported basis, the core operating margin while maintaining our targeted credit rating the business or to return to shareholders
declined by 1 percentage point of which of A1/P1 to preserve access to short-term consistent with protecting our credit profile.
0.5 related to negative impact from currency. capital markets. The priority is to cover the dividend but free
The operating margin benefited from reduced cash flow above and beyond this requirement
We also continue to align our tax strategy
R&D costs and higher royalty receipts offset is available for share buy-backs or bolt-on
with our future business profile and have
by expected upward pressure on cost of sales acquisitions, wherever the most attractive
implemented a number of measures to
from the unwinding of costs of manufacturing returns are available.
centralise our Pharmaceutical intellectual
volume shortfalls, adverse mix and the impact
property and product inventory ownership in The decision as to how to allocate such
of preparing for the launches of new pipeline
the UK. This allowed us to reduce our 2013 cash flow is rigorously benchmarked using
products. The Group’s continuing restructuring
core tax rate to 23.0% from 24.4% in 2012, a returns-based framework based on CFROI
programmes contributed incremental year-on-
which is ahead of our expectations at the comparisons.
year savings of around £400 million from both
beginning of the year. We continue to expect
ongoing and structural initiatives. In 2013 we returned £5.2 billion of cash to
improvements in the tax rate, especially as
shareholders. We paid £3.7 billion in dividends
new products come through which will
with our ordinary dividend up 5% to 78p per
benefit from the newly introduced patent
share. In addition we bought back £1.5 billion
box arrangements in the UK. Our core tax
of shares as part of the long-term programme
rate in 2014 is expected to be around 22%.
that we started in 2011.
In 2014 we expect to deliver continued
dividend growth and we are currently targeting
share repurchases of £1–2 billion.
48 GSK Annual Report 2013Financial architecture to drive improved returns
Focus on returns
Sales growth EPS Returns to
shareholders
Operating Free cash
leverage flow
Financial
efficiency
Cash flow
growth
Measurement and reporting
From January 2014, the Group will report the
Established Products Portfolio of more than
50 tail brands with sales totalling £4.2 billion
in 2013 (£3.9 billion excluding divestments)
as a separate segment. We have set up this
segment to bring greater focus on how we
optimise value and in particular profits and cash
from this group of products. Where we can
realise more attractive value than our own
efforts we will also consider further divestments.
GSK Annual Report 2013 49Strategic report
Responsible business
Responsible
business
Being a responsible business is central to our strategy and mission,
and how we deliver success is just as important as what we achieve.
Operating responsibly and ensuring our values the transparency of our clinical research and
are embedded in our culture and decision-making modernise our commercial practices and the way
helps us better meet the expectations of society. we interact with our customers, and passed a
significant milestone in the development of
In 2013 we continued to take bold steps to modify
a potential vaccine against malaria.
our business model. Specifically we made further
progress on driving access to our medicines in We continue to invest in our people and are
the poorest countries, took action to increase working hard to reduce our environmental footprint.
Progress summary
We made good progress in 2013 towards our • Announced plans to evolve the way we sell and
forward-looking commitments that we announced market products to healthcare professionals to
in 2012. These commitments are reported across further align the company’s activities with the
our four areas and they aim to address unmet global interests of patients.
health needs and are aligned with our strategic
priorities and values. Our people
• Began the roll-out of preventative healthcare
Health for all benefits through our Partnership for Prevention
• Increased the volume of medicines supplied to Least programme which will be available to employees
Developed Countries since 2010 by 60%. and their families worldwide by 2018.
• Achieved a major milestone in the development of our • Launched a new performance management system
malaria vaccine candidate, RTS,S, which will lead us to better link employee reward with our values.
to submit a regulatory file in 2014 to make the vaccine
available at a not-for-profit price in sub-Saharan Africa. Our planet
• Formed an innovative new partnership with Save the • Our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions from our
Children to help save the lives of one million children operations grew slightly by 0.6% in 2013, although
over five years. these have declined by 7% since 2010.
• We became the first company to be awarded global
Our behaviour certification to the Carbon Trust’s Water Standard
• Became the first pharmaceutical company to enable in recognition of our year-on-year reductions in
external researchers to access detailed anonymised operational water use globally.
patient-level data from our clinical trials through a
new online system.
50 GSK Annual Report 2013Malaria milestone
Last year, malaria killed an estimated 627,000
people and more than three quarters of these
deaths occurred in children under five.
The malaria parasite endemic in sub-Saharan
Africa, Plasmodium falciparum, is also the most
serious type of malaria where acute infections can
rapidly become life-threatening.
Working in partnerships with others, we have been
carrying out research into a vaccine to fight malaria
for more than 30 years. In 2013, we achieved a
major milestone in the development of the world’s
first vaccine against P falciparum. Phase III data
showed that our vaccine almost halved the number
of cases in young children (aged 5-17 months at
first vaccination) in the 18 months after vaccination.
Based on this data and previous studies, we plan
to submit a regulatory application to the European
Medicines Agency in 2014 and the vaccine could
be available as early as 2016.
Nahya (pictured), a paediatrician, has been involved
in the RTS,S malaria vaccine trial at the Ifakara
Health Institute in Tanzania.
“ It’s our hope that the malaria
vaccine could help many, many
children. It could help reduce the
burden of malaria as a disease.”
N ahya Salim, paediatrician and research
scientist in Tanzania, Africa
References
World Health Organization – Fact sheet on the World Malaria
Report 2013. December 2013.
http://www.who.int/malaria/media/world_malaria_
report_2013/en/index.html
Wellcome trust – Plasmodium falciparum
http://malaria.wellcome.ac.uk/doc_WTD023865.html
Our priorities
In 2014, we will continue to challenge our business
model at every level to ensure we are responding
to the needs of patients and meeting the wider
expectations of society.
Next year we will begin a two-year process to end
the practice of paying health care professionals to
speak on our behalf. This move will help put patient
interests first.
GSK Annual Report 2013 51SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
RReessppoonnssiibbllee bbuussiinneessss
Responsible business
Our approach
How we conduct our business is just as important to
us as the financial results we achieve. We strive to put
our values at the heart of every decision we make and
to meet or exceed the expectations of society
Our commercial success is directly linked to To improve access, we employ innovative Our most significant contribution to this is in
operating in a responsible way. We report our funding mechanisms and use a flexible pricing the elimination of lymphatic filariasis (LF) and
approach and the progress we are making approach that is based on a country’s wealth control of soil-transmitted helminths (intestinal
across four areas: and ability to pay. Our Developing Countries worms) through the donation of albendazole
and Market Access (DCMA) operating unit tablets. In 2013, we shipped 763 million
• Health for all
seeks to increase patient access to our tablets, bringing the total donated to more
• Our behaviour medicines and vaccines for around 800 million than 4 billion tablets since 1998.
people in the Least Developed Countries
• Our people We are also researching new treatments for
(LDCs), as defined by the United Nations.
• Our planet other diseases such as sleeping sickness,
Since the DCMA unit was established in 2010, Chagas disease and visceral leishmaniasis.
In 2012, we developed longer-term the volume of medicines we supply to LDCs has
commitments across these four areas. increased by 60% from 55 million units in 2010 Approximately 627,000 malaria-related
They reflect global health needs and are to 89 million in 2013. deaths were reported last year and GSK is
aligned with our strategic priorities and our committed to tackling this disease. We have
values of transparency, respect for people, The price of our patented medicines in the invested $350 million in the development of
integrity and patient focus. LDCs is capped at no more than a quarter our malaria vaccine candidate RTS,S, including
of our developed world prices. Since 2009 collaborations with the PATH Malaria Vaccine
This year we will be reporting on our progress we have also re-invested 20% of our profits Initiative and support from the Bill & Melinda
against these commitments in our 2013 in the LDCs into local healthcare capacity- Gates Foundation. This year, our clinical trial
Corporate Responsibility Report available building projects in those countries. In 2013 reported further data on the vaccine (see
on gsk.com/responsibility. this amounted to £5.1 million and since 2009 page 34) and we intend to submit a regulatory
The following pages provide an overview we have reinvested £15 million. application in 2014. We are also developing
of our approach. We aim to make our established, off-patent tafenoquine for the treatment and relapse
prevention of P vivax malaria.
products available to developing countries
Health for all through our ‘catch up’ programme. Through this We remain committed to supporting the World
programme, we have been seeking approvals Health Organization objective of eradicating
Our mission is to improve the quality of human for our medicines in these markets, and have polio completely by 2018 by providing vaccines
life by enabling people to do more, feel better, received approvals for 26 products in 2013. to UNICEF. In 2013, we provided 412 million
live longer. The main way we can do this is doses of oral polio vaccine to the Global Polio
In vaccines, we have used a tiered pricing model
through developing new medicines, vaccines Eradication Initiative.
for over 20 years and, in 2013, we updated our
and consumer products and increasing access
approach to better align with a country’s ability
to these products for those who need them, Innovative science to create
to pay. For the least well-off countries, we work
regardless of their ability to pay. At the same value for all
closely with GAVI and UNICEF to improve
time, we need to generate returns so that we access to vaccines. These organisations, which Our approach to R&D includes our strategy
can be a sustainable business that invests in purchase large volumes of vaccines for the for open innovation for the diseases of the
research for the new treatments of tomorrow. world’s poorest children, always benefit from developing world, which seeks to stimulate
To achieve this, we have been evolving our our lowest prices. innovation and enhance the productivity of
business model and implementing novel our research process. This research has
We aim to take a responsible approach to
approaches such as flexible pricing structures. transformed our approach to intellectual
pricing in all markets. It is important that prices
We have also been accelerating our innovation property and external partnerships.
reflect the value our medicines bring to patients
processes by opening up our research findings but we are also very mindful of the burden of While our current open innovation models
and resources to others, and working in new healthcare costs. For example, we have priced focus on diseases of the developing world,
ways with partners. our newly launched products at or below the we are also exploring ways to extend these
prices for those currently available, despite their models to solve other significant health
Access to healthcare positively differentiated profiles. For example, challenges where the traditional business
We are committed to improving access in the USA we launched Tafinlar, our BRAF model is inadequate, including anti-microbial
to patients who need our products irrespective inhibitor, last year with a price around 30% resistance and non-communicable diseases
of their ability to pay, by focusing on product lower than an existing BRAF inhibitor. such as Alzheimer’s disease.
affordability and availability, and investing
In early 2014, we joined the Accelerated
in stronger healthcare systems in developing Diseases of the developing world Medicines Partnership (AMP) – a new
countries.
Neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) like leprosy partnership between the National Institutes
and intestinal worms affect billions of people in of Health (NIH), ten pharmaceutical companies
the world’s most vulnerable communities. As and three non-profit organisations. The goal of
a leading member of the London Declaration, the AMP is to transform the current model for
GSK is working with the Bill & Melinda Gates developing new diagnostics and treatments in
Foundation and 12 other pharmaceutical challenging disease areas and make the data
companies to control or eliminate ten of the generated available to the broad biomedical
17 NTDs by 2020 that affect 1.4 billion people. community. We will be participating in and
providing funding for the Alzheimer’s pilot.
52 GSK Annual Report 2013Programmes supported by We also believe that by sharing our research In this context we were concerned and
financial giving in 2013 findings – both positive and negative – we can disappointed by allegations of fraudulent
stimulate innovation and help others to build behaviour in our China business. We are
on our existing research. Our aim is that this taking this matter extremely seriously and are
will accelerate the drug-development process co-operating fully with the Chinese authorities.
19% to produce new medicines for patients. We have taken a number of actions, including
commissioning an independent report from
Health and well-being in our
international legal firm Ropes and Gray, who
communities
have extensive experience in anti-corruption
58% We are committed to improving the health and and international risk.
23% well-being of our communities by supporting
programmes that improve healthcare We are committed to learning any lessons
infrastructure, enhance science and health required as a result of the Chinese
education and assist in humanitarian relief. investigation and will take all appropriate
steps as necessary at its outcome. We
In 2013, GSK donated medicines valued at remain fully committed to China, supporting
£146 million (at cost) and £54 million in cash. the government’s healthcare reforms and
Health and well-being Product donations worth £3.8 million were to supplying our products to patients.
Education
provided to our partners AmeriCares, Direct
Other Relief, IMA World Health, MAP International In 2013, we simplified the policies underpinning
and Project HOPE for humanitarian aid. These our Code of Conduct and completed our annual
partners distributed donated medicines to business certification programme. The Ethical
87 countries in 2013. This included providing Leadership Certification requires managers
Our giving in 2013 supplies of antibiotics and basic medicines and designated employees to certify their
to those affected by conflicts and natural awareness, understanding, and compliance
disasters, including the earthquake in Pakistan, with GSK’s values and policies. Over 65,000
2% the typhoon in the Philippines and the designated employees had completed the
8% tornadoes in the USA. certification process in 2013.
24% GSK’s annual IMPACT Awards have We continue to support the Guiding Principles
channelled more than £8 million to over on Business and Human Rights, as endorsed
450 outstanding healthcare charities in by the United Nations Human Rights Council
the UK and the USA over the past 16 years. in 2011. In recognition of these principles, we
undertook a systemic assessment in 2013
to identify our human rights impacts and
Our behaviour
66% prioritised seven areas to further examine
GSK’s policies and processes. We also
We aim to put the interests of patients and
updated our GSK Human Rights Statement
consumers first and to have our decisions
£m based on the findings of our assessment.
guided by our four values of transparency,
CCaasshh £54 million 54 respect for people, integrity and patient focus.
Research practices
PPrroodduucct ta andn din -inki-nkdi n£d146 million 146 We have policies, guidance and codes of
Time £4 million conduct in place for our people, our partners We seek to ensure that our research practices
TMimaneagement £17 million 4 and our suppliers. meet high ethical standards and patient safety
Management 17 remains our first priority.
Living our values and principles Our clinical trials are conducted in accordance
Ethical conduct is a priority for GSK. We need with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines.
to operate with integrity around the world, in our All employees complete training on GCP
interactions with patients, prescribers, payers before undertaking any roles related to GSK-
and governments and we must live our values. sponsored clinical research. In 2013, there
Failure to uphold high ethical standards could were 44,685 GCP-related training activities.
impact our company’s success. We also conducted 323 clinical-quality
assurance assessments.
Our zero tolerance approach to bribery
and corruption applies to everyone at GSK In addition, we conducted 51 investigations
as well as third parties who act on behalf of of suspected irregularities and took corrective
the company. action where appropriate. Independent
regulatory authorities also performed 112
inspections of GSK sites and the investigators
we used to conduct clinical trials.
GSK Annual Report 2013 53Strategic report
Responsible business
Responsible business
continued
In 2013, we built on our long-standing In 2013 we began a programme that will We will strengthen our own dedicated medical
commitment to clinical trial transparency. modify nearly 200 packaging lines across 25 and scientific capability to appropriately lead
To facilitate further research that can help manufacturing sites internationally, allowing engagement with HCPs. We will improve our
advance medical science or improve patient us to provide unique serial numbers on nearly multi-channel capability, including use of digital
care, we launched an online system to enable 7,000 stock keeping units. technologies, to ensure appropriate product
researchers to request access to detailed and disease area information can be provided
We greatly value the relationships we have
anonymised patient-level data from our clinical to HCPs conveniently. Finally, we will support
with our many suppliers and understand the
trials. We also began publishing Clinical Study fair, balanced and objective medical education
pressures on cash flow and financing faced by
Reports (CSRs) once the medicines have been for HCPs through provision of independent
smaller companies. Following a change to our
approved or terminated from development. educational grants.
standard payment terms for suppliers in the UK
This will extend back to the formation of GSK
and USA in 2012, we offered to review these We will continue to offer appropriate fees
in 2000, starting with the most commonly
payment terms for smaller suppliers identified to HCPs who provide services for GSK-
prescribed medicines. We also support the
as micro, small and medium size enterprises sponsored clinical research, advisory activities
AllTrials campaign, which calls for full reporting
in Europe or diverse suppliers in the USA. and market research. These activities are
of methods and results of all trials.
We also offer a range of supply chain finance essential to provide us with insights on specific
In early-stage research, we use a number of options to both our UK and US suppliers. diseases, identification of symptoms and
methods for drug discovery work, including in diagnosis, application of clinical trial data
Several companies have taken up these
some cases research involving animals. We or medication dosage and administration,
opportunities already and we are planning
use alternatives to animals whenever we can. and on how to effectively and appropriately
increased communications to make more
However, in some studies animal research is the communicate the benefits and risks of its
of our smaller suppliers aware of the
only method that can be used to demonstrate medicines to help meet patient needs.
support available.
the effects of a potential new medicine in a
living body before it is tested in humans. When Sales and marketing with integrity Our people
animals are used in research, we are committed
to acting ethically and practising good animal GSK has an important role to play in supporting Our people are essential to our success. We
welfare and minimising the number of animals education for healthcare professionals (HCPs) focus on building their individual capabilities
used. In 2013, the number of animals we used and in providing accurate information about and aim to support and empower them to be
declined by 10% and was 33% lower than in our medicines to help them make the best the best they can be.
2000. Most animals in our research – including treatment decision for their patients. In 2013,
research carried out by contractors – are mice. we announced plans to evolve the way we Talent and leadership development
Less than 0.3% of the animals we use are non- interact with HCPs to further align our activities
human primates. with the interests of patients. We aim to attract and retain the most
talented people by investing in training and
In 2014, we will implement a new compensation
development that is tailored to individuals’
Manufacturing and supply system that will apply to all GSK sales
needs and recognises the potential of our
Efficient and responsible manufacturing and employees who detail our prescription products employees.
supply is key to GSK. We expect suppliers to prescribing healthcare professionals. This
to uphold the same high standards we set for will mean sales professionals being evaluated In 2013 over 3,500 leaders completed our
ourselves, which is based on our Code and rewarded for their technical knowledge, Leading Delivery programme, which helps
of Conduct. the quality of the service they deliver to middle-level managers translate the strategic
support improved patient care, and the overall ambition of our business into meaningful
We conduct audits on governance, risk performance of our business, replacing action. We also enrolled over 140 leaders
management, environmental, health and individual sales targets. onto Leading Business, which is designed to
safety and sustainability issues on a subset of develop the capabilities of those managing
suppliers, which have been identified as critical This follows the success of our actions in the a business function. For people who are
to our supply chain. USA where we decoupled reward for our sales new to management positions, we launched
representatives from the number of prescriptions
GSK is also a member of the Pharmaceutical Management Essentials, which teaches basic
issued, focusing instead on demonstration of our
Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), which audits management skills.
values and on the patient.
suppliers on their labour practices, and their During the year, we continued to support
environment, health and safety performance. In addition, we intend to phase out the practice entry-level students through internships,
of paying HCPs to speak on our behalf about
Moving to an end-to-end supply chain operating industrial placements, apprenticeships and
our products or disease areas to audiences
model for our Pharmaceutical and Consumer graduate schemes. In 2013, we increased
who can prescribe or influence prescribing.
Healthcare products will standardise and our graduate intake to 334 from 303 (in 2012)
improve controls across our entire supply chain. We will work to implement these changes as part of our aim to recruit 450 graduates a
effectively in line with local laws and year by 2015.
During 2013 we continued to address the
regulations across our global business
problem of counterfeiting. One effective Coaching was a global focus in 2013. We
by the start of 2016.
measure, initially adopted in China, is to reached over 6,500 leaders in 30 countries
use serial numbers on product packages to through our coaching programmes to
enable electronic monitoring for the purpose strengthen leadership capabilities.
of patient safety.
54 GSK Annual Report 2013Our PULSE volunteer partnership programme
gives employees the opportunity to work
full-time for three or six months with a non-
profit organisation or charity to help address
global healthcare challenges while developing
their leadership skills. In 2013, 99 employees
volunteered with 47 organisations, including
Save the Children, as part of our new global
partnership with the charity.
Inclusion and diversity
Our focus is to enable gender diversity in
management and senior roles. In 2013, we
introduced targeted individual and group
coaching and sponsorship for emerging
diverse talent. In 2014, we will invite employees
to join dialogue sessions to discuss and
address hidden barriers that could hinder
gender diversity.
At the end of 2013, 57% of our global
workforce were male and 43% were female.
The percentage of women in management
continued to rise in 2013.
Women in management positions (%) Partnership with Save the Children
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 to help save 1 million lives
SVP, VP 25 25 26 27 28
Director 36 37 38 39 40
We aim to help save the lives of 1 million One of our first life-saving projects is the
Manager 42 42 42 43 44
children through our partnership with reformulation of chlorhexidine, an antiseptic
Total 38 38 39 40 41 Save the Children. By combining our found in our Corsodyl mouthwash, into a
R&D capabilities and on-the-ground gel for umbilical cord cleansing to prevent
Women represent 21% of our Corporate
expertise, we will bring much-needed infection in newborns.
Executive Team and we have exceeded our
medicines and vaccines to some of the
goal to achieve at least 25% female board We are also registering a child-friendly,
world’s poorest children, train thousands
representation by 2013. Female Non-Executive powder-based antibiotic in the DRC to help
of healthcare workers, and seek to alleviate
Directors make up 33% of the Board. We fight pneumonia, one of the biggest killers
child malnutrition.
ranked joint third in the 2013 Female FTSE of children under five. These interventions
100 Board Report, a study of women’s This new partnership builds on our are two of the 13 recommended in the
representation on the boards of the UK’s collaboration with Save the Children over report of the UN Commission on Life-Saving
top companies. the past eight years, including as part Commodities.
of our 20% reinvestment programme in
Employees by gender (number) Least Developed Countries and our We also teamed up with Save the Children
to award US$1 million in recognition of
Africa Malaria Partnership.
Male Female Total healthcare innovations originating in the
Board 10 5 15 We are investing at least £15 million in this developing world designed to reduce infant
initiative and encouraging our employees mortality. In 2013, the award was split
Management* 9,483 6,705 16,188
to contribute £1 million a year through fund between five organisations. The largest
Total employees 56,621 42,830 99,451 raising. We are establishing two signature portion was awarded to Friends of Sick
programmes to demonstrate interventions Children in Malawi, for their development
* Management: senior managers as defined in
in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) of a low-cost device to help newborn
the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and
and Kenya, while a joint paediatric board infants breathe.
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, which
includes persons responsible for planning, directing will look at new or repurposed products
or controlling the activities of the company, or a to tackle the causes of newborn and
strategically significant part of the company, other infant death.
than the Board, including directors of undertakings
included in the consolidated accounts.
nerdlihC
eht
evaS/sogoB
assilE
GSK Annual Report 2013 55Strategic report
Responsible business
Responsible business
continued
Making sure that people with disabilities have
access to career opportunities and capturing Setting the standard
their talent is a global focus for us. In 2014,
in employee healthcare
we will establish a Global Disability Council
within GSK to agree priority areas for improving
opportunities for disabled people, develop
objectives to drive our disability agenda forward, We are putting our values into practice by
and monitor and report on our progress. offering competitive benefits packages,
The rich cultural diversity of our employees is including preventive healthcare for
a key strength in helping us meet the diverse employees and their families.
needs of patients and healthcare providers Our Partnership for Prevention (P4P)
in countries in which we operate. Staff programme offers all eligible employees and
based in our Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific their family members access to up to 40
and Japan regions represented 43% of our preventive health services at little or no cost.
total workforce in 2013. Six nationalities are P4P will be available to employees across
represented on the Corporate Executive Team GSK by 2018. To date P4P benefits are in
and Board. place for over 5,200 employees and family
We monitor and benchmark the proportion members in 11 countries.
of ethnic minorities in our workforce against As part of the P4P pilot, which ran in 2012,
industry averages and the national population we focused on encouraging employees to do
in countries such as the UK and USA and more exercise and improve their diet and have
engage with groups representing diverse since developed a global physical fitness
communities. programme that will be launched in 2014.
Engaging our people
Our CEO and members of the Corporate
Executive Team deliver live broadcasts and
Health and safety and well-being Our Energy for Performance programme helps
messages to keep employees updated about
the company’s progress towards its strategy As a progressive healthcare company, we employees remain focused and energised
and commitments. believe that helping our employees be healthy, and productive. By the end of 2013, 44,500
resilient and productive is a priority and brings employees in 55 countries had participated
Our frequent global employee survey helps us our mission to life for our people. in energy and resilience training since 2008.
understand our performance as an employer.
During 2013, we have taken steps to address To achieve our goal of zero harm to employees, Our Employee Assistance Programme offers
issues identified by the last survey, completed we focus on preventing incidents before advice, information and counselling through
in 2012, with a focus on training leaders to be they occur and in 2013 training activities a confidential helpline and website and is
better coaches, supporting employees through focused on key risks such as driver safety available to employees.
change and better recognising individuals’ and machinery-related incidents. We had two
contributions. serious incidents in 2013. The injury and illness Performance, reward and recognition
rate in 2013 was 0.29 per 100,000 hours Incentivising behaviour that is consistent with
In 2013, we introduced interim surveys for worked – down from 0.33 in 2012. This was our values is a priority in the way we evaluate,
individual business units and functions and under-reported in 2013 and we are working recognise and reward performance. In 2013,
covered some 36,000 employees. Results to include data from a number of Commercial we announced a new performance system that
showed that most businesses had made Operations business units. will come into effect in 2014. This system is
significant improvements in team leader
designed to ensure our employees understand
effectiveness, a priority area for improvement We also worked to increase reporting of near
what is expected of them and help them
based on the 2012 survey results. miss incidents so that we can better understand
connect their contribution to the delivery
how and why such events occur and then share
GSK employees were again enthusiastic this knowledge across the business to help of our strategy and their reward.
participants in our Orange Day volunteer prevent more serious incidents. As a result, For our most senior people, we disincentivise
programme, which gives staff one paid day in 2013, we reported 131,924 such events unethical working practices using a ‘clawback’
a year for this purpose. In 2013, we also – an increase of 98% since 2012. mechanism that allows us to recover
challenged employees around the world
performance-related pay.
to work together to raise over £1 million We also expanded our network of health and
a year for five years for Save the Children. safety co-ordinators who make sure our safety We are committed to supporting the health
programmes are on track, and expanded a and well-being of our employees and their
driver safety programme to five continents. families and during the year we began to
phase in our global preventive healthcare
We continued to implement risk reduction
initiative, the Partnership for Prevention
initiatives and further improved process safety
programme (see Setting the standard in
in manufacturing and R&D to prevent serious
employee healthcare).
events such as fires, explosions and releases
of hazardous substances.
56 GSK Annual Report 2013Our planet Carbon emissions
Tonne CO2e 2010 2011 2012 2013
To ensure we can continue to deliver high-
quality products to patients and consumers Scope 1 emissions 1,011,180 1,035,856 1,018,014 1,037,288
in the future, we must protect the natural Scope 2 emissions 964,215 881,101 804,253 796,034
resources we need to make them today.
Total scope 1&2 emissions 1,975,395 1,916,957 1,822,267 1,833,322
Carbon
We have set ambitious targets to achieve
a carbon-neutral value chain by 2050. Intensity ratios 2010 2011 2012 2013
Our operational emissions remain lower
Sales Revenue £ 000,000 28,392 27,387 26,431 26,505
than our 2010 baseline and we are engaging
with employees, suppliers and customers Scope 1&2 (tonnes CO2e)/ sales 69.6 70.0 68.9 69.2
to address carbon emissions in our value revenue £ (millions)
chain – from sourcing of raw materials and FTE 96,461 97,389 99,488 99,451
transport, to use and disposal of our products. Scope 1&2 (tonnes CO2e)/FTE 20.5 19.7 18.3 18.4
We are using carbon footprint analyses of
our top 35 products to target the most
effective reductions. The scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions are calculated according to The Greenhouse Gas Protocol:
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) (see table). We were certified to the
Our scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions from our Carbon Trust Carbon Standard in 2012 which certifies that we are making year-on-year overall reductions
operations grew slightly by 0.6% in 2013, in emissions associated with operations and transport and will be applying for recertification in 2014.
although these have declined by 7% since These emissions are not materially important to our carbon reduction strategy.
2010. The investments we made in 2013
will start to deliver further carbon emission
reductions in 2014 (see Carbon emissions • Being named in the CDP Performance In the UK, we installed equipment at our site
table). Scope 1 emissions refer to all direct Leadership Indices as a global leader in in Ware to dismantle spent respiratory inhalers
greenhouse gas emissions, including burning tackling carbon emissions and for our so we can recycle the components.
fuels for energy, emissions from sales force transparent reporting.
In 2013, we repeated our survey of suppliers
cars, emissions during manufacture of metered
of packaging and leaflet paper and used
dose inhalers and other process emissions Water
this information to help us in our purchasing
from our manufacturing operations and waste In 2013, we achieved a further 2% reduction decisions.
treatment. Scope 2 emissions include indirect in water use from the previous year, keeping
greenhouse gas emissions from consumption us on track to meet our target to cut Other impacts
of purchased electricity, heat or steam. operational water use by 20% by 2015 from
We manage a range of other important
Our scope 3 emissions (excluding raw our 2010 baseline. issues to reduce our environmental impact.
materials) increased by 1.5% in 2013 across We mapped water usage across our value For example we use ‘green chemistry’, which
the value chain due to strong sales of HFA chain in 2013 and identified that the production aims to reduce the use of hazardous chemicals
propellant-based inhalers, and have increased of the raw materials we use accounts for an and processes from drug development by
11% since 2010. Scope 3 emissions are all estimated 84% of our total water footprint replacing them with those that have a lower
the other indirect emissions, not included in and our own operations represent just 1%. environmental impact.
scope 2, such as embedded carbon dioxide
in purchased raw materials, the propellant In 2013, we became the first company to be Our Green Chemistry Performance Unit,
released when patients use and dispose of awarded global certification to the Carbon established in 2012, researches ways to
our metered dose inhalers, as well as business Trust’s Water Standard. As part of the replace hazardous or unsustainable chemicals
travel by air and logistics. assessment, the Carbon Trust audited sites with better alternatives.
in the UK, USA and India.
Materially important emissions – such as the To support research into sustainable chemistry,
emissions from the use of our metered dose we are investing in a new centre of excellence
Waste
inhalers – are detailed in our value chain for green chemistry at the University of
carbon footprint performance data, published In 2013, we generated 11% more waste than Nottingham in the UK and have pledged
in our 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report. in 2012 as a result of business growth, but annual funding until 2024 for a second Centre
we reduced our waste by 6% compared to of Excellence for Sustainable Chemistry
Important achievements in 2013 include: our 2010 baseline. Only 6% of total waste in São Paulo, Brazil. In Singapore, we are
• The Best in Continuing Carbon Reduction was sent to landfill and 37 of our sites have funding research into green and sustainable
Award 2013 from the Carbon Trust for year- now achieved zero waste to landfill – up from manufacturing as part of our partnership with
on-year overall reductions in emissions. 34 in 2012. By 2020, we aim to halve our the Singapore Economic Development Board.
operational waste compared to 2010 and
• Collaborating in the launch of a tool to help have zero waste to landfill.
companies calculate the carbon footprint
of tablet medicines that are distributed in
blister packs.
GSK Annual Report 2013 57Strategic report
Financial review
Financial review
The Financial review summarises the performance of the
Group for the year, in comparison with the results of the
previous year. The Financial review also sets out the
balance sheet position of the Group at 31 December 2013
Group performance Major restructuring costs charged in Working capital conversion cycle
arriving at operating profit include costs The working capital conversion cycle is
Our financial review discusses the operating arising under the Operational Excellence calculated as the number of days sales
and financial performance of the Group, the restructuring programme, initiated in 2007 outstanding plus days inventory outstanding,
financial outlook and our financial resources. and expanded in 2009, 2010 and 2011, less days purchases outstanding.
We compare the results for each year the Major Change restructuring programme
primarily with results of the preceding year initiated in 2013 and restructuring costs CER growth
and on a CER basis. In this review we following the acquisitions of Human In order to illustrate underlying performance,
discuss the results on both a core basis Genome Sciences, Inc. in August 2012 it is our practice to discuss the results in
and a total basis. and Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in July 2009. terms of constant exchange rate (CER)
All growth rates included in this Report Reconciliations of core results to total growth. This represents growth calculated
are at constant exchange rates (CER) results are presented on page 65. as if the exchange rates used to determine
unless otherwise stated. CER growth is the results of overseas companies in
Core results reporting aligns business
discussed below. Sterling had remained unchanged from
performance reporting around the
those used in the previous year. CER%
We use a number of adjusted measures underlying trading performance of the
represents growth at constant exchange
to report the performance of our business. Group and its primary growth drivers
rates. £% represents growth at actual
These measures are used by management by removing the volatility inherent in many
exchange rates.
for planning and reporting purposes and of the non-core items.
in discussions with and presentations to
Core results reporting is utilised as the Restatement of comparative
investment analysts and rating agencies and
basis for internal performance reporting and information
are defined below. These measures are not
the core results are presented and As set out in Note 1 to the Financial
defined in IFRS and may not be comparable
discussed in this Financial review as we statements, ‘Presentation of financial
with similarly described measures used by
believe that this approach provides investors statements’, an amendment to IAS 19
other companies.
with a clearer view of the underlying trading ‘Employee benefits’ has been implemented
Core results reporting performance of the Group. We also believe in the year. The effect has been to reduce
that this approach should make the Group’s total operating profit for 2013 by £160
Core results exclude the following items
results more comparable with the majority million (2012 – £92 million; 2011 –
from total results: amortisation and
of our peers, many of which use similar £73 million). Comparative information
impairment of intangible assets (excluding
forms of underlying performance reporting has been restated accordingly.
computer software) and goodwill; major
to discuss their results, although the precise
restructuring costs, including those costs
calculations may differ. The Financial review
following material acquisitions; legal charges
also presents and discusses the total results
(net of insurance recoveries) and expenses
of the Group.
on the settlement of litigation and
government investigations; other operating
Free cash flow
income other than royalty income; disposals
Free cash flow is the net cash inflow from
of associates, products and businesses,
operating activities less capital expenditure,
and acquisition accounting adjustments
interest and dividends paid to non-
for material acquisitions, together with
controlling interests plus proceeds from the
the tax effects of all of these items.
sale of property, plant and equipment and
dividends received from joint ventures and
associated undertakings. Free cash flow
growth is calculated on a sterling basis.
A reconciliation is presented on page 72.
58 GSK Annual Report 2013Financial review 2013 Group turnover by segment
2012
Group turnover by business
2013 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
2012
2013 (restated) Growth Growth Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines:
£m £m CER%* £%
US 7,192 7,000 1 3
Pharmaceuticals 17,898 17,936 1 –
Europe 5,166 5,001 – 3
Vaccines 3,420 3,325 2 3
EMAP 4,698 4,721 1 –
Pharmaceuticals
Japan 1,657 1,969 1 (16)
and Vaccines 21,318 21,261 1 –
ViiV Healthcare 1,386 1,374 – 1
Consumer Healthcare 5,187 5,170 2 –
Other trading and
26,505 26,431 1 –
unallocated 1,219 1,196 5 2
* C ER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents Pharmaceuticals
growth at actual exchange rates. and Vaccines 21,318 21,261 1 –
Total Group turnover for 2013 was £26,505 million, up 1%. Consumer Healthcare 5,187 5,170 2 –
Excluding the impact of disposals, primarily the conclusion of the 26,505 26,431 1 –
Vesicare co-promotion agreement in the US in Q1 2012 and the In the US, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover was up 1%, but
non-core OTC brands divested in H1 2012, turnover grew 3%. grew 4% excluding the impact of the conclusion of the Vesicare
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover grew 1% and excluding co-promotion agreement in Q1 2012. Pharmaceuticals turnover was
disposals, grew 2%. Pharmaceuticals turnover grew 1% and, down 1% but excluding Vesicare, grew 2%. Sales of Respiratory
excluding disposals, grew 2%, as growth in the US, Japan and products grew 7% to £3,655 million, led by an 8% growth in Advair,
EMAP was partially offset by continued pricing pressures and although this performance included the benefit of favourable stocking
generic competition in Europe. ViiV Healthcare turnover for patterns in the fourth quarter. Oncology products also performed
2013 was flat. Vaccines turnover grew 2%, despite the adverse well, growing 17% to £380 million, led by strong performances
comparison with strong Cervarix sales in Japan in 2012. Excluding from Votrient and Promacta and the initial impact of the launches
Cervarix in Japan, Vaccines sales grew 5%, reflecting the strong of Tafinlar and Mekinist monotherapies during the year. These gains
growth in the US of Infanrix/Pediarix and Boostrix, both of which were partially offset by the impact of generic competition to Lamictal
benefited from competitor supply issues, and Fluarix/FluLaval, which and a number of Dermatology products. The 17% increase in
benefited from the launch of the new Quadrivalent formulation, as Vaccines sales primarily resulted from the increases in Infanrix/
well as a better performance by the business in Europe. Consumer Pediarix and Boostrix sales, both of which benefited from competitor
Healthcare turnover increased 2% to £5,187 million, but excluding supply shortages. Fluarix/FluLaval sales were also strong following
the non-core OTC brands divested in H1 2012, turnover grew 4%. the launch of the Quadrivalent flu formulation in 2013.
Group turnover by geographic region Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover was £5,166 million,
flat compared with 2012, as the benefits of the recent restructuring
2012 and refocusing of the business were offset by continued pricing
2013 (restated) Growth Growth pressures and generic competition to a number of products.
£m £m CER% £%
Pharmaceutical sales were down 1% to £4,117 million. Seretide
US 8,730 8,476 2 3
sales declined 2% on a 2% volume decline but flat pricing. Oncology
Europe 7,511 7,326 (1) 3 products, particularly Votrient and Promacta, performed well, as did
EMAP 6,746 6,788 2 (1) Avodart, but growth from these products was more than offset by
Japan 1,890 2,225 2 (15) lower sales of a number of older products, which were particularly
Other 1,628 1,616 4 1 impacted by continued pricing measures and generic competition.
26,505 26,431 1 – Vaccines sales grew 3%, largely due to an improved tender
performance.
Group sales outside the USA and Europe accounted for 39% of total
turnover and reported growth of 2%, adversely impacted by sales
declines in China.
GSK Annual Report 2013 59Strategic report
Financial review
EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover was up 1% Respiratory
to £4,698 million in 2013, adversely affected by the ongoing Respiratory sales in 2013 grew 4% to £7,516 million, with the
investigation in China, with Pharmaceuticals up 2% to £3,574 million US up 7%, Europe down 3%, EMAP up 4% and Japan up 9%.
and Vaccines up 1% to £1,124 million. In China, Pharmaceuticals Seretide/Advair sales were up 4% to £5,274 million, largely driven
and Vaccines sales were down 18%, driven primarily by declines by a strong US performance. Flixotide/Flovent sales increased 2%
in Respiratory and Hepatitis products. Excluding China, EMAP to £796 million, and Ventolin sales grew 2% to £642 million. Xyzal
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines sales grew 5% driven by sales, almost exclusively made in Japan, grew 26% to £137 million,
Pharmaceuticals growth in the Middle East/Africa, Latin America, reflecting a strong allergy season.
and South East Asia, partially offset by declines in India, and Korea.
In the US, Respiratory sales grew 7%, with Advair up 8% to
Vaccines sales were up 1% to £1,124 million, and up 3% excluding
£2,769 million, compared with 6% estimated underlying growth for
China, reflecting strong tender performances from Cervarix and
the year (5% volume decline more than offset by an 11% positive
Infanrix/Pediarix, which were partially offset by a tough comparison
impact of price and mix). Flovent sales were up 6% to £482 million
with 2012.
with estimated underlying growth for the year up 6% (4% volume
Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover grew 1% to £1,657 decrease offset by a 10% positive impact of price and mix). Ventolin
million, as a 9% growth in Pharmaceuticals sales was partially offset grew 4% to £291 million, with estimated underlying growth of 8%
by a 76% decline in Vaccines sales. Strong growth in Respiratory driven mostly by improved price realisation in the first half of the year.
products as well as for Relenza, Avodart and Lamictal was partly The launch of Breo Ellipta began in Q4 2013 with £5 million of sales
offset by generic competition to Paxil sales. Vaccines sales primarily recorded in the quarter.
reflected the impact on Cervarix of the suspension of the
European Respiratory sales were down 3% reflecting increased
recommendation for the use of HPV vaccines in Japan during the
competition in many markets. Seretide sales were down 2% to
second half of 2013 and the adverse comparison with 2012, which
£1,458 million, with a 2% volume decrease and no net impact of
benefited from the final stages of the catch-up HPV vaccination
price and mix. Serevent and Flovent sales were down 17% and
programme.
7% respectively.
ViiV Healthcare turnover was flat at £1,386 million as the growth
Respiratory sales in EMAP grew 4%, but 9% excluding China, led
generated by Epzicom and Selzentry, together with the introduction
by Seretide, which grew 4% to £429 million (12% excluding China).
of Tivicay, was offset by the impact of continued competition to older
Seretide continued to deliver strong growth across many EMAP
products.
markets. Veramyst, grew 16% to £71 million and Ventolin increased
Consumer Healthcare turnover, excluding the non-core OTC brands 2% to £171 million.
divested in H1 2012, grew 4%, with growth in all four categories.
In Japan, Respiratory sales grew 9% to £567 million, with strong
Growth in the US, up 2%, and Europe, up 3%, primarily arose from
growth from both Xyzal and Veramyst. Adoair sales grew 8% to
Specialist oral health, including Sensodyne, Denture care and the
£277 million. Relvar Ellipta was launched in December 2013,
re-stocking of alli, which was out of stock for much of 2012. Rest of
recording sales of £3 million.
World turnover grew 6% with strong growth in India, the Middle East
and Latin America partly offset by a decline in sales in China, driven
Anti-virals
by the impact of the shelving restrictions on Contac and mandatory
The 6% decrease in sales of Anti-virals reflected declines in Zeffix
price reductions for Fenbid. Reported Consumer Healthcare turnover
and Hepsera in China partially offset by tender shipments of Relenza
grew 2% to £5,187 million.
in Japan.
Pharmaceuticals turnover
Central nervous system (CNS)
2012 Seroxat/Paxil sales fell 16% to £285 million, primarily due to generic
2013 (restated) Growth Growth competition in Japan and Europe and Requip sales fell 18% to
£m £m CER% £% £125 million reflecting generic competition in the US and Europe.
Respiratory 7,516 7,291 4 3 Lamictal sales fell 7% to £557 million, primarily as a result of generic
Anti-virals 667 753 (6) (11) competition to Lamictal XR in the US, which started in Q1 2013.
Central nervous system 1,483 1,670 (8) (11) Sales of the Lamictal franchise in the US fell 18% to £276 million.
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,239 2,431 (8) (8)
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Metabolic 174 171 10 2
Sales in the category fell 8% primarily as a result of the impact of
Anti-bacterials 1,239 1,247 – (1)
the conclusion of the Vesicare co-promotion agreement in Q1 2012.
Oncology and emesis 969 798 22 21
Excluding Vesicare, sales declined 1%.
Dermatology 770 850 (8) (9)
Rare diseases 495 495 7 – The Avodart franchise grew 10% to £857 million with 31% growth
in sales of Duodart/Jalyn. Avodart sales grew 5% to £648 million.
Immuno-inflammation 161 70 >100 >100
Other pharmaceuticals 799 786 6 2 Lovaza fell 5% to £584 million as a result of increased competition
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,386 1,374 – 1 and the decline in the non-statin dyslipidemia prescription market.
17,898 17,936 1 – Arixtra sales fell 15% to £167 million.
60 GSK Annual Report 2013Metabolic Rare diseases
The increase in Metabolic product sales primarily reflected higher Volibris, up 21% to £147 million, and Mepron, up 8% to £101 million,
sales of Prolia in Europe and EMAP. were the main drivers of the 7% growth in the category. Flolan sales
fell 16% to £103 million, primarily as a result of the biennial price
Anti-bacterials
reduction in Japan in Q2 2012 and continued generic competition
Augmentin sales grew 5% to £630 million with strong growth in the US and Europe.
in EMAP, reflecting, in part, a comparison with some supply
interruptions in 2012. Zinnat sales were flat at £169 million, Immuno-inflammation
and Zinacef sales fell 14% to £55 million. Benlysta turnover in the year was £146 million, with £134 million
in the US. Total in-market sales of Benlysta in the US in 2012 were
Oncology and emesis
£96 million.
Oncology and emesis sales grew 22% to £969 million, marking
the second consecutive year of double digit percentage growth ViiV Healthcare (HIV)
for the business. US sales were up 17% with strong performances ViiV Healthcare sales of £1,386 million were flat as sales in the US
by Votrient, Promacta and Arzerra, but also contributions from the were up 5%, Europe down 3% and EMAP down 12%. Epzicom/
launches of two new metastatic melanoma products Tafinlar and Kivexa sales increased 14% to £763 million and Selzentry was up
Mekinist. Sales in Europe grew 28% and EMAP grew 18%. Votrient 10% to £143 million. Tivicay recorded sales of £19 million from the
sales grew 80% to £331 million, Promacta sales grew 46% to early stages of its launch in the US, which started in August 2013.
£186 million and Arzerra sales grew 23% to £75 million. Tykerb/ Tivicay was approved in Europe in January 2014 and launches are
Tyverb sales fell 13% to £207 million due to increased competition. planned in several markets throughout 2014. Growth contributions
Both Hycamtin in Europe and EMAP and Argatroban in the US within this business were offset by declines in the mature portion
continued to be adversely affected by generic competition. of the portfolio, mainly Combivir, down 36% to £116 million
In the US, there were continued strong growth contributions
Vaccines turnover
from Votrient, up 56% to £144 million, and Promacta, up 33%
to £73 million, which benefited from a new indication for
2013 2012 Growth Growth
thrombocytopenia associated with Hepatitis C received during Q4 £m £m CER% £%
2012. Arzerra grew 18% to £46 million. The US performance also Vaccines sales 3,420 3,325 2 3
reflects contributions totalling £21 million from Tafinlar and Mekinist,
which were both launched in Q2 2013 as monotherapy treatments Performance of the Vaccines business improved towards the end of
and achieved strong uptake in the BRAF V600 melanoma market the year, with a significant increase in tender sales in the last quarter.
during the first few months on the market. In January 2014, Tafinlar The 2% increase in Vaccines sales was principally attributable to the
and Mekinist were approved by the FDA for combination use. growth of Infanrix/Pediarix, Fluarix/FluLaval and Boostrix, which was
largely offset by the decline of Cervarix in Japan, reflecting the
In Europe, sales grew 28% to £339 million, led by sales of Votrient,
suspension of the recommendations for the use of HPV vaccines in
which increased by 91% to £130 million, as it continued to build
Japan, together with an adverse comparison with strong Cervarix
market share in many markets. Revolade received approval in Europe
sales in 2012, which benefited from the final stages of the HPV
for use in thrombocytopenia associated with Hepatitis C at the end
vaccination catch-up programme in Japan. Cervarix sales declined
of Q3 2013 and sales in the year increased by 47% to £55 million.
37% to £172 million. Excluding Cervarix in Japan, Vaccines sales
Tafinlar was launched in Q3 2013 in certain markets and has
increased by 5%.
achieved strong uptake in these early launch markets.
Infanrix/Pediarix sales increased 9% to £862 million, with the growth
EMAP sales grew 18% to £149 million led by strong growth
primarily reflecting stronger tender shipments in Europe and EMAP
of Votrient (up 77% to £37 million) and Promacta (up 92% to
as well as the benefit in the US of a competitor supply shortage.
£22 million). In the region Tykerb was down 9% to £47 million,
Boostrix sales, which also benefited from a competitor supply issue in
and Hycamtin was down 36% to £7 million.
the US, grew 19% to £288 million.
Dermatology Sales of hepatitis vaccines fell 4% to £629 million, primarily reflecting
Sales declined 8% to £770 million, primarily as a result of the decline lower sales in the US as a result of the return of competing vaccines
in the US, down 40% to £140 million, which continued to suffer from to the market during the second half of 2012, together with declines
the impact of generic competition, particularly to Bactroban, Duac in Europe and China.
and Soriatane, together with the effect of the disposal of a number
Synflorix sales increased 2% to £405 million, helped by strong
of tail brands in Q2 2013. EMAP sales grew 6% to £397 million,
tender sales in Middle East/Africa and Latin America.
reflecting strong growth in Bactroban, Dermovate and Duac
particularly in Middle East/Africa and Latin America. European Rotarix sales grew 5% to £375 million, with strong growth in Middle
sales grew 5% to £170 million. East/Africa and Europe partially offset by the impact of increased
competition in Japan.
Fluarix/FluLaval sales increased 25% to £251 million, following the
launch of the Quadrivalent formulation in the US.
GSK Annual Report 2013 61Strategic report
Financial review
Sales from new pharmaceutical and vaccine launches Consumer Healthcare turnover
2013 2012 Growth Growth 2012
£m £m CER% £% 2013 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Pharmaceuticals:
Total wellness 1,935 2,057 (5) (6)
Arzerra 75 60 23 25
Oral care 1,884 1,806 6 4
Benlysta 146 70 >100 >100
Nutrition 1,096 1,050 7 4
Duodart/Jalyn 209 157 31 33
Skin health 272 257 5 6
Lamictal XR 98 148 (34) (34)
5,187 5,170 2 –
Mekinist 10 – – –
Potiga/Trobalt 11 7 43 57
2012
Prolia 51 26 96 96 2013 (restated) Growth Growth
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 8 – – – £m £m CER% £%
Tafinlar 16 – – – USA 951 926 1 3
Tivicay 19 – – – Europe 1,819 1,802 (1) 1
Votrient 331 183 80 81 ROW 2,417 2,442 4 (1)
Xgeva 7 – >100 >100 5,187 5,170 2 –
Dermatology 8 7 20 14 Consumer Healthcare turnover grew 2% in the year. Excluding the
non-core OTC brands that were divested in H1 2012, turnover grew
Vaccines:
4% reflecting overall growth in all three regions.
Synflorix 405 385 2 5
Nimenrix 12 1 >100 >100 Total wellness
1,406 1,044 33 35 Total wellness sales, excluding the non-core OTC brands that
were divested in H1 2012, grew 1%. In both the US and Europe alli
New products are those launched in the last five years (2009 to
reported strong growth, in large part due to being out of stock for
2013 inclusive). Sales of new products were £1,406 million in 2013,
much of 2012. A severe cold and flu season in early 2013 helped
grew 33% in the year and represented 7% of Pharmaceuticals and
drive growth of several respiratory brands including Coldrex,
Vaccines turnover. In Q4 2013, sales of new products were
Beechams and Panadol Cold and Flu. This growth was partly offset
£465 million, grew 50% and represented 8% of Pharmaceuticals
by a 57% reduction in sales in China of Contac, due to new shelving
and Vaccines turnover.
requirements, and Fenbid, down 31%, in advance of mandatory price
Tafinlar and Mekinist, both for metastatic melanoma, were approved reductions.
and launched in the US in Q2 2013. In Q3 2013, Tivicay, for the
treatment of HIV-1 patients, was approved and launched in the US Oral care
and Tafinlar was granted approval and launched in Europe. In Strong growth in Oral care sales was led by growth in Specialist
Q4 2013, Breo Ellipta was launched in the US for COPD and Relvar oral health, with Sensodyne Sensitivity and Acid erosion up 15%
Ellipta was granted approval in Europe for COPD and asthma and and denture care brands up 9%, but Aquafresh was down 12%.
launched in Q1 2014. In addition, launch activities are currently
underway for Anoro Ellipta, which was approved in the US for the Nutrition
treatment of COPD in December 2013. Nutrition sales grew 7% with strong growth in Rest of World markets,
led by Horlicks, up 14%, and Boost in India and key expansion markets
in the sub-continent. Lucozade grew 4% and Ribena grew 3%.
Skin health
Skin health sales grew 5%, led by Abreva in the US.
Regional performance
Excluding the non-core OTC products divested in 2012, US sales grew
2%, led by strong contributions from Oral care brands, alli and Abreva.
This was partially offset by declines in Gastro-intestinal products,
reflecting increased competitor activity, and Smoking control products
impacted by supply disruptions. In Europe, sales grew 3% helped by sales
of alli and strong growth in products for Respiratory health and Pain.
Oral care sales in Europe were flat, as strong growth in Sensodyne and
denture care brands was offset by a decline in Aquafresh, due in part to
supply issues in Q4 2013. Rest of World markets grew 6%, reflecting
growth across most categories and markets, particularly in India, partially
offset by a 23% reduction of sales in China, mainly due to the reduction
in sales of Contac and Fenbid.
62 GSK Annual Report 2013Core results The table below analyses core R&D expenditure by these categories:
We use the core reporting basis to manage the performance of
2012
the Group and the definition of core results is set out on page 58.
2013 (restated)
A review of the Group’s total results is set out on pages 66 to 67. £m £m
The reconciliation of total results to core results is presented Discovery 742 800
on page 65. Development 1,535 1,655
Facilities and central support functions 449 377
Cost of sales
Pharmaceuticals R&D 2,726 2,832
2012 Vaccines R&D 496 498
2013 (restated) Growth
Consumer Healthcare R&D 178 155
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% Core R&D 3,400 3,485
Cost of sales (7,549) (28.5) (7,109) (26.9) 6 6
The proportion of Pharmaceuticals R&D investment made in the
Core cost of sales was 28.5% of turnover compared with 26.9% late-stage portfolio decreased from 58% of Pharmaceuticals R&D
in 2012. Net of currency effects of 0.3 percentage points and the costs in 2012 to 56% in 2013.
impact of a 0.3 percentage point reduction to the 2012 cost of sales
percentage due to the settlement in early 2012 of a royalty agreement Royalty income
and the conclusion of the Vesicare agreement, the cost of sales Royalty income was £387 million (2012: £306 million) and included
percentage increased 1.0 percentage points. This reflected the a prior year royalty catch-up adjustment recorded early in 2013.
expected impact of the unwinding of costs of manufacturing volume
Core operating profit
shortfalls, adverse mix and the impact of preparing for the launches
of new pipeline products, partially offset by ongoing cost 2012
management, better price realisation and restructuring benefits. 2013 (restated) Growth
% of % of
Selling, general and administration £m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
Core operating profit 8,015 30.2 8,238 31.2 – (3)
2012
2013 (restated) Growth Core operating profit was £8,015 million, flat in CER terms on
% of % of a turnover increase of 1%. The core operating margin of 30.2%
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
was 1.0 percentage points lower than in 2012. Excluding currency
Selling, general
effects, the margin declined 0.5 percentage points. This reflected
and administration (7,928) (29.9) (7,905) (29.9) 1 –
the negative impact of an expected increase in cost of sales, partially
Core SG&A costs as a percentage of sales were 29.9%, flat on offset by higher royalty income and lower R&D expenditure, as
2012, as the net favourable year-on-year benefits of the Group’s the Group’s continuing restructuring programmes contributed
restructuring programmes and ongoing cost management efforts incremental year-on-year savings of around £400 million from
funded investments in growth businesses and preparations for new both ongoing and structural initiatives.
product launches.
The contribution in 2013 from structural benefits was approximately
Advertising and promotion expenses decreased 2%, Selling and £115 million lower than in 2012. Total savings realised from changes
distribution decreased 1% and general administration increased 6%. to post-retirement medical obligations in 2013 were approximately
£280 million. In 2012, the Group realised £395 million of savings
Research and development from the capping of future pensionable salary increases and a change
2012 in the basis of future discretionary pension increases from RPI to CPI
2013 (restated) Growth in certain legacy plans.
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
Research and
development (3,400) (12.8) (3,485) (13.2) (3) (2)
Core R&D expenditure declined 3% to £3,400 million (12.8% of
turnover) compared with £3,485 million (13.2% of turnover) in 2012.
This reflected the completion of a number of large trials, the phasing
of ongoing project spending as well as continuing cost management.
We remain focused on delivering an improved return on our
investment in R&D. Sales contribution, reduced attrition and cost
reduction are all important drivers of an improving internal rate of
return. R&D expenditure is not determined as a percentage of sales,
but instead capital is allocated using strict returns based criteria.
The operations of Pharmaceuticals R&D are broadly split into
Discovery activities (up to the completion of phase IIa trials) and
Development work (from phase IIb onwards).
GSK Annual Report 2013 63Strategic report
Financial review
Core operating profit by business Net finance costs
2012 2013 2012
2013 (restated) Growth Finance income £m £m
Margin Margin Interest and other income 59 77
£m % £m % CER% £%
Fair value movements 2 2
Pharmaceuticals 6,633 37.1 6,652 37.1 3 –
61 79
Vaccines 1,096 32.0 1,169 35.2 (8) (6)
Pharmaceuticals and
Finance expense
Vaccines 7,729 36.3 7,821 36.8 1 (1)
Interest expense (726) (745)
Consumer Healthcare 913 17.6 908 17.6 3 1
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities – (10)
8,642 32.6 8,729 33.0 2 (1)
Remeasurements and fair value movements (5) (24)
Corporate & other
Other finance expense (22) (24)
unallocated costs (627) (491) 30 28
(753) (803)
Core operating profit 8,015 30.2 8,238 31.2 – (3)
Core net finance expense was £692 million compared with
Core operating profit by segment
£724 million in 2012, despite higher average net debt levels
2012 during the year, largely driven by continuing share repurchases
2013 (restated) Growth and dividends to shareholders. This reflected our strategy to improve
% of % of the funding profile of the Group. Net debt at 31 December 2013
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
was £1.4 billion lower than at 31 December 2012, reflecting receipts
Pharmaceuticals and
of £2.5 billion from the disposals of businesses, intangible assets,
Vaccines
Aspen shares and other investments realised largely at the end
USA 4,993 69.4 4,786 68.4 3 4
of the year.
Europe 2,829 54.8 2,629 52.6 3 8
EMAP 1,468 31.2 1,560 33.0 (3) (6) Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
Japan 978 59.0 1,179 59.9 4 (17) The share of after tax profits of associates of £43 million
ViiV Healthcare 885 63.9 849 61.8 3 4 (2012 – £29 million) principally arose from the Group’s holding
Pharmaceutical R&D (2,823) (2,778) 1 2 in Aspen Pharmacare.
Other trading and Core profit before taxation
unallocated
2012
pharmaceuticals (601) (49.3) (404) (33.8) 31 49 2013 (restated) Growth
Pharmaceuticals and % of % of
Vaccines 7,729 36.3 7,821 36.8 1 (1) £m turnover £m turnover CER% £%
Core profit before tax 7,366 27.8 7,543 28.5 – (2)
Consumer Healthcare 913 17.6 908 17.6 3 1
8,642 32.6 8,729 33.0 2 (1) Taxation
Corporate & other Tax on core profit amounted to £1,695 million and included
unallocated costs (627) (491) 30 28 recognition of US R&D credits reflected in the effective core tax
Core operating profit 8,015 30.2 8,238 31.2 – (3) rate of 23.0% (2012: 24.4%).
We continue to believe that we have made adequate provision for
the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and not yet
agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may
vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome
of agreements with the relevant tax authorities or litigation.
Core earnings per share
Core EPS of 112.2p (2012 – 111.4p) increased 4% in CER terms
and 1% at actual exchange rates.
Dividend
The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend for
the year of 78 pence, a 4 pence increase on the dividend for 2012.
See Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
64 GSK Annual Report 2013Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2013
Acquisition
Core Intangible Intangible Major Legal accounting Total
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges and other results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 26,505 26,505
Cost of sales (7,549) (450) (408) (178) (8,585)
Gross profit 18,956 (450) (408) (178) 17,920
Selling, general and administration (7,928) (300) (252) (8,480)
Research and development (3,400) (97) (331) (39) (56) (3,923)
Royalty income 387 387
Other operating income – 1,124 1,124
Operating profit 8,015 (547) (739) (517) (252) 1,068 7,028
Net finance costs (692) (6) (8) (706)
Profit on disposal of interest in
associates and joint ventures – 282 282
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 43 43
Profit before taxation 7,366 (547) (739) (523) (252) 1,342 6,647
Taxation (1,695) 149 226 145 9 147 (1,019)
Tax rate 23.0% 15.3%
Profit after taxation 5,671 (398) (513) (378) (243) 1,489 5,628
Profit attributable to
non-controlling interests 250 (58) 192
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,421 (398) (513) (378) (243) 1,547 5,436
Earnings per share 112.2p (8.2)p (10.7)p (7.8)p (5.0)p 32.0p 112.5p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,831 4,831
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2012 (restated)
Acquisition
Core Intangible Intangible Major Legal accounting Total
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges and other results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 26,431 26,431
Cost of sales (7,109) (378) (309) (128) (1) (7,925)
Gross profit 19,322 (378) (309) (128) (1) 18,506
Selling, general and administration (7,905) (418) (436) (30) (8,789)
Research and development (3,485) (99) (384) (11) (3,979)
Royalty income 306 306
Other operating income 1,256 1,256
Operating profit 8,238 (477) (693) (557) (436) 1,225 7,300
Net finance costs (724) (1) (4) (729)
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 29 29
Profit before taxation 7,543 (477) (693) (558) (436) 1,221 6,600
Taxation (1,838) 145 196 (285) 150 (290) (1,922)
Tax rate 24.4% 29.1%
Profit after taxation 5,705 (332) (497) (843) (286) 931 4,678
Profit attributable to
non-controlling interests 235 (136) 10 70 179
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,470 (332) (361) (853) (286) 861 4,499
Earnings per share 111.4p (6.8)p (7.3)p (17.4)p (5.8)p 17.5p 91.6p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,912 4,912
GSK Annual Report 2013 65Strategic report
Financial review
Total results Other operating income
2012 Other operating income of £1,124 million (2012 – £1,256 million)
2013 (restated) Growth included the profit on the disposal of the Lucozade and Ribena
% of % of business and the anti-coagulant products of £1,331 million. The
£m turnover £m turnover CER% £% 2012 income included gains on the profit on disposal of the non-core
Turnover 26,505 100 26,431 100 1 –
OTC brands of £559 million and the gain of £581 million arising on
Cost of sales (8,585) (32.4) (7,925) (30.0) 8 8 the revaluation of pre-existing collaborations as part of the HGS and
Selling, general ViiV Healthcare/Shionogi joint venture acquisitions.
and administration (8,480) (32.0) (8,789) (33.3) (3) (4)
Operating profit
Research and
development (3,923) (14.8) (3,979) (15.1) (2) (1) Total operating profit was £7,028 million compared with
Royalty income 387 1.5 306 1.2 25 26 £7,300 million in 2012. The non-core items resulted in total net
Other operating charges of £987 million in 2013 (2012 – £938 million).
income 1,124 4.2 1,256 4.8 (10) (11) The intangible asset amortisation of £547 million (2012 – £477 million)
Operating profit 7,028 26.5 7,300 27.6 (1) (4) included £94 million related to the amortisation of the Benlysta
Net finance costs (706) (729) intangible asset acquired as part of the HGS acquisition in late 2012.
Profit on disposal of Intangible asset impairments of £739 million (2012 – £693 million)
interest in associates 282 – included write-offs of several R&D assets, together with the partial
impairment of Lovaza, reflecting a reassessment of the Group’s
Share of after tax
expectations on the likelihood of potential generic competition.
profits of associates
and joint ventures 43 29 Major restructuring charges of £517 million (2012 – £557 million)
Profit before taxation 6,647 6,600 4 1 comprised £238 million under the Operational Excellence
programme, £260 million under the Major Change programme
Taxation (1,019) (1,922)
and £19 million related to the acquisition of HGS.
Total profit after
taxation for the year 5,628 4,678 24 20 The Operational Excellence programme was initiated in 2007 and
Total profit attributable after several expansions is expected to cost approximately £4.85
to shareholders 5,436 4,499 billion. It is expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings of approximately
£2.9 billion by the end of 2014.
Earnings per share (p) 112.5 91.6 27 23
Earnings per ADS The Major Change programme focuses on opportunities to simplify our
(US$) 3.53 2.91 supply chain processes, build the Group’s capabilities in manufacturing
and R&D, and restructure our European Pharmaceuticals business.
Cost of sales The programme is expected to cost £1.5 billion, of which the non-cash
Total cost of sales was 32.4% of turnover compared with 30.0% charge will be £350 million, and is expected to deliver annual pre-tax
in 2012. The increase primarily reflected the expected impact of the savings of at least £1.0 billion by 2016.
unwinding of costs of manufacturing volume shortfalls, adverse mix
Legal charges of £252 million (2012 – £436 million) principally
effects, the impact of preparing for the launches of new pipeline
related to provisions for existing product liability matters.
products and higher amortisation and impairments of intangible
assets, partially offset by ongoing cost management, better price Acquisition accounting and other credits of a net £1,068 million (2012
realisation and restructuring benefits. – £1,225 million credit) included items related to major acquisitions,
business, equity investment and asset disposals, one-off required
Selling, general and administration regulatory charges in R&D and certain other adjusting items. The 2013
Total SG&A costs decreased to 32.0% of turnover compared with net credit included gains on the disposals of the Lucozade and Ribena
33.3% in 2012, reflecting lower legal and restructuring charges. business and the anti-coagulant products of £1,331 million. The 2012
The net favourable year-on-year benefits of the Group’s restructuring net credit included gains on the profit on disposal of the non-core OTC
programmes and ongoing cost management efforts funded brands of £559 million and the gain of £581 million arising on the
investments in growth businesses and preparations for new revaluation of pre-existing collaborations as part of the HGS and ViiV
product launches. Healthcare/Shionogi joint venture acquisitions.
Advertising and promotion expenses decreased 2%, selling and Net finance costs
distribution fell 1% and general and administration decreased 5%,
primarily reflecting lower legal charges. 2013 2012
Finance income £m £m
Research and development Interest and other finance income 59 77
Fair value movements 2 2
Total R&D expenditure declined 2% to £3,923 million (14.8% of
turnover) compared with £3,979 million (15.1% of turnover) in 2012. 61 79
This reflected the completion of a number of large trials, the phasing
of ongoing project spending as well as continuing cost management, Finance expense
partially offset by higher restructuring and required regulatory Interest expense (726) (745)
charges. Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (14) (15)
Remeasurements and fair value movements (5) (24)
Other finance expense (22) (24)
(767) (808)
Total net finance expense was £706 million compared with £729
million in 2012, despite higher average net debt levels during the year,
reflecting our strategy to improve the funding profile of the Group.
66 GSK Annual Report 2013Profit on disposal of interest in associates The critical accounting policies, for which information on the
The pre-tax profit on disposal of interest in associates was judgements and estimates made is given in Note 3 to the financial
£282 million (2012 – £nil) and reflected the disposal of 28.2 million statements, ‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’, and in
ordinary shares in Aspen Pharmacare for £429 million. the relevant detailed notes to the financial statements as indicated
below, relate to the following areas:
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
• Turnover
The share of after tax profits of associates of £43 million
(2012 – £29 million) principally arose from the Group’s holdings in • Taxation (Note 14)
Aspen Pharmacare. • Legal and other disputes (Notes 29 and 44)
Profit before taxation • Impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets
Taking account of net finance costs, the profit on disposal of interest (Notes 18 and 19)
in associates and the share of profits of associates, profit before • Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 28).
taxation was £6,647 million compared with £6,600 million in 2012,
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas
a 4% CER increase and a 1% increase in sterling terms.
is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting
Taxation judgements and estimates’.
2012 Turnover
2013 (restated)
£m £m In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 265 350 is US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, and the US market has the
Less double taxation relief – (180) most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
The following briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in
265 170
existence in our US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business:
Overseas taxation 1,284 1,510
Current taxation 1,549 1,680 • We have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby
Deferred taxation (530) 242 the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at reduced
prices. A chargeback represents the difference between the
Taxation on total profits 1,019 1,922
invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect customer’s
The charge for taxation on total profits amounted to £1,019 million contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating chargebacks
and represented an effective tax rate of 15.3% (2012 – 29.1%), are calculated based on the terms of each agreement, historical
reflecting the differing tax effects of the various non-core items. experience and product growth rates
It included a net deferred tax charge of £234 million related
• Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group
to the unwinding of deferred profit in inventory as existing inventory
purchasing organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect
produced prior to the 2012 restructuring of the supply chain is sold.
customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve
The 2013 charge for taxation on total profits also included deferred
certain performance targets relating to the value of product
tax credits of £393 million, primarily reflecting continuing
purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market shares
restructuring of the supply chain compared to a predominantly non
relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates is
cash deferred tax charge of £420 million in 2012. The Group’s
estimated based on the specific terms in each agreement,
balance sheet at 31 December 2013 included a tax payable liability
historical experience and product growth rates
of £1,452 million and a tax recoverable asset of £129 million.
• The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme
We continue to believe that we have made adequate provision
providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients.
for the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and not
In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established
yet agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters
to reduce state and federal expenditure on prescription drugs.
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became
outcome of agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation.
law. We participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for
Earnings per share Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of
the relevant regulations or the Patient Protection and Affordable
Total earnings per share was 112.5p for the year, compared
Care Act
with 91.6p in 2012 and non-core net credits totalled 0.3p
(2012 – 19.8p charges). • Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
Critical accounting policies adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance • We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also with historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced,
IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies together with market related information such as stock levels at
approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. We are required to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements.
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates.
GSK Annual Report 2013 67Strategic report
Financial review
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US Legal and other disputes
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business is as follows: In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes,
the following briefly describes the process by which we determine
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated) the level of provision that is necessary.
Margin Margin In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
£m % £m % £m %
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for
Gross turnover 10,066 100 9,758 100 9,770 100
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of the
Market driven
likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising
segments (1,136) (11) (1,035) (10) (885) (9) from claims against the Group. We may become involved in
Government significant legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible
mandated and state to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any,
programs (1,450) (14) (1,463) (15) (1,521) (15) that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these
Cash discounts (184) (2) (177) (2) (176) (2) cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included
Customer in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.
returns (83) (1) (147) (1) (105) (1) This position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no
Prior year assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal
adjustments 89 1 129 1 94 1 proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the amount of the
Other items (110) (2) (65) (1) (155) (2) provisions reported in the Group’s financial statements.
Total deductions (2,874) (29) (2,758) (28) (2,748) (28) Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with various
Net turnover 7,192 71 7,000 72 7,022 72 complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, as well as
investigations of its operations conducted by various governmental
Market driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the General Counsel of
Medicare plans with which GSK negotiates contract pricing that is the Group, as head of the Group’s legal function, and the Senior
honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments consist Vice President and Head of Global Litigation for the Group, who is
primarily of Medicaid and Federal government programs which responsible for all litigation and government investigations, routinely
receive government mandated pricing via rebates and chargebacks. brief the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the
The total balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances Board of Directors on the significant litigation pending against the
and returns in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business at Group and governmental investigations of the Group.
31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 were as follows: These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
litigation and government investigations and review matters such as
At 31 At 31
December December the number of claims notified to us, information on potential claims
2013 2012 not yet notified, assessment of the validity of claims, progress made
£m £m
in settling claims, recent settlement levels and potential
Managed care, Medicare Part D
reimbursement by insurers.
and GPO rebates 413 390
The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not there
US government and state programs 540 559
is sufficient information available for us to be able to make a reliable
Cash discounts 21 21
estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes. Often, external
Customer returns 194 217
counsel assisting us with various litigation matters and investigations
Other 20 23 will also assist in the briefing of the Board and senior management.
Total 1,188 1,210 Following these discussions, for those matters where it is possible to
make a reliable estimate of the amount of a provision, if any, that may
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at be required, the level of provision for legal and other disputes is
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses gross reviewed and adjusted as appropriate.
sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data
sources and information received from key wholesalers. The aim of
this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to year
based on the pattern of consumption.
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels at
wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December 2013
were estimated to amount to approximately five weeks of turnover.
This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy of which
cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently reliable for
this purpose.
68 GSK Annual Report 2013Financial position and resources Property, plant and equipment
Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
2012
regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
2013 (restated)
£m £m financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our property,
Assets plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production
Non-current assets and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards. A number of
Property, plant and equipment 8,872 8,776 our processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Goodwill 4,205 4,359 The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at 31 December
Other intangible assets 9,283 10,161 2013 was £18,853 million, with a net book value of £8,872 million.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 323 579 Of this, land and buildings represented £3,909 million, plant and
Other investments 1,202 787 equipment £2,509 million and assets in construction £2,454 million.
Deferred tax assets 2,084 2,391 In 2013, we invested £1,235 million in new and renewal property,
plant and equipment. This is mainly related to a large number of
Derivative financial instruments 1 54
projects for the renewal, improvement and expansion of facilities
Other non-current assets 889 682
at various worldwide sites. Property is mainly held freehold. New
Total non-current assets 26,859 27,789
investment is financed from our liquid resources. At 31 December
Current assets 2013, we had contractual commitments for future capital expenditure
Inventories 3,900 3,969 of £443 million and operating lease commitments of £777 million.
We believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Current tax recoverable 129 103
Trade and other receivables 5,442 5,242 We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to manage
Derivative financial instruments 155 49 environmental risks from our activities. Environmental issues,
Liquid investments 66 81 sometimes dating from operations now modified or discontinued,
are reported under ‘Our Planet’ on page 57 and in Note 44 to the
Cash and cash equivalents 5,534 4,184
financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Assets held for sale 1 64
Total current assets 15,227 13,692 Goodwill
Total assets 42,086 41,481 Goodwill decreased during the year to £4,205 million at December
2013, from £4,359 million. The decrease primarily reflects a
Liabilities
weakening of overseas currencies.
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings (2,789) (3,631) Other intangible assets
Trade and other payables (8,317) (8,054) Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from
Derivative financial instruments (127) (63) third parties and computer software. The net book value of other
Current tax payable (1,452) (1,374) intangible assets as at 31 December 2013 was £9,283 million (2012
Short-term provisions (992) (693) – £10,161 million). The decrease in 2013 reflected assets acquired
Total current liabilities (13,677) (13,815) from the acquisition of Okairos AG of £190 million, capitalised
development costs of £246 million and £183 million of computer
Non-current liabilities software costs, more than offset by the amortisation and impairment
Long-term borrowings (15,456) (14,671) of existing intangibles of £682 million and £745 million, respectively.
Deferred tax liabilities (693) (1,004)
Investments
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (2,189) (3,121)
We held investments, including associates and joint ventures,
Other provisions (552) (699)
with a carrying value at 31 December 2013 of £1,525 million
Derivative financial instruments (3) (2)
(2012 – £1,366 million). The market value at 31 December 2013
Other non-current liabilities (1,704) (1,432)
was £2,212 million (2012 – £1,968 million). The largest of these
Total non-current liabilities (20,597) (20,929)
investments are in an associate, Aspen Pharmacare Holdings
Total liabilities (34,274) (34,744) Limited, which had a book value at 31 December 2013 of £229
Net assets 7,812 6,737 million (2012 – £430 million) and an investment in Theravance,
Inc. which had a book value at 31 December 2013 of £644 million
Equity
(2012 – £362 million). During the year we sold 28.2 million shares
Share capital 1,336 1,349
in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited, representing 6.2% of our
Share premium account 2,595 2,022 interest, for £429 million. The investments include equity stakes in
Retained earnings 913 642 companies where the Group has research collaborations, which
Other reserves 2,153 1,787 provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest
Shareholders’ equity 6,997 5,800 and interests in companies that arise from business divestments.
Non-controlling interests 815 937
Total equity 7,812 6,737
GSK Annual Report 2013 69Strategic report
Financial review
Derivative financial instruments: assets Net debt decreased by £1,392 million and reflected the receipts
We had both non-current and current derivative financial instruments of £2.5 billion from the disposals of the Lucozade/Ribena and
held at fair value of £156 million (2012 – £103 million). The majority anti-coagulant products businesses, intangible assets, part of the
of this amount relates to interest rate swaps and foreign exchange Group’s investment in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited and
contracts both designated and non-designated (inter-company loans other investments. The impact of these was partly offset by the
and deposits) as accounting hedges. consideration paid to increase the shareholding in the Group’s
Indian Consumer Healthcare subsidiary from 43.2% to 72.5% at a
Inventories cost of £588 million and to acquire Okarios AG for £205 million.
Inventory of £3,900 million has decreased by £69 million during the
The Group’s strong cash generation enabled the financing of share
year. The decrease reflects the impact of the disposal of the Lucozade/
repurchases of £1.5 billion and dividend payments of £3.7 billion.
Ribena and anti-coagulant products businesses partly offset by higher
vaccine stocks and stockbuilding for new product launches. Movements in net debt
Trade and other receivables 2013 2012
Trade and other receivables of £5,442 million have increased from £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (14,037) (9,003)
2012 reflecting the receivable due from Aspen in respect of the
inventory and a manufacturing site which formed part of the disposal Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,473 (1,607)
of the anti-coagulants products business partly offset by a weakening Cash inflow from liquid investments (15) (224)
of overseas currencies. Net increase in long-term loans (1,913) (4,430)
Net repayment of short-term loans 1,872 816
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired (6) (3)
We held both non-current and current derivative financial
Exchange movements (34) 385
instruments at fair value of £130 million (2012 – £65 million).
Other movements 15 29
This primarily relates to foreign exchange contracts both designated
Net debt at end of year (12,645) (14,037)
and non-designated (inter-company loans and deposits, external
debt and legal provisions) as accounting hedges. Total equity
At 31 December 2013, total equity had increased from £6,737 million
Trade and other payables
at 31 December 2012 to £7,812 million. The increase arose principally
Trade and other payables amounting to £8,317 million have increased
from a reduction in the pension deficit of £699 million, a reduction in
from £8,054 million in 2012, reflecting the current year accrual in
the post-retirement provision of £439 million and retained profits in
respect of the acquisition of further shares in the Group’s Indian
the year exceeding shares repurchased, partly offset by the liability of
Pharmaceutical subsidiary of £635 million partly offset by the effect
£635 million arising from the open offer to purchase shares held by
of the increased shareholding in the Indian Consumer Healthcare
the non-controlling interest in the Group’s Indian Pharmaceutical
subsidiary accrued in 2012, together with a weakening of overseas
subsidiary, GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited.
currencies.
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
Provisions
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and 2012
2013 (restated)
non-current provisions of £2,237 million at 31 December 2013
£m £m
(2012 – £2,396 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities, of Total equity at beginning of year 6,747 8,827
which £646 million (2012 – £527 million) related to legal and other
Prior year adjustment - IAS 19R (10) (13)
disputes. Provision has been made for legal and other disputes,
At 1 January, as restated 6,737 8,814
indemnified disposal liabilities, employee related liabilities and the
Total comprehensive income for the year 6,215 4,014
costs of restructuring programmes to the extent that at the balance
Dividends to shareholders (3,680) (3,814)
sheet date a legal or constructive obligation existed and could be
reliably estimated. Shares issued 585 356
Changes in non-controlling interests (625) (218)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits Forward contract relating to non-controlling
We account for pension and other post-employment arrangements interest – 8
in accordance with IAS 19. The deficits, net of surpluses before Shares purchased and cancelled or held
allowing for deferred taxation were £613 million (2012 – £1,312
as Treasury shares (1,504) (2,493)
million) on pension arrangements and £1,246 million (2012 – £1,685
Consideration received for shares transferred
million) on unfunded post-employment liabilities.
by ESOP Trusts – 58
In December 2010, the UK scheme purchased an insurance contract Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (45) (37)
that will guarantee payment of specified pensioner liabilities. This Share-based incentive plans 294 211
contract was valued at £775 million at 31 December 2013.
Tax on share-based incentive plans 73 9
Net debt Distributions to non-controlling interests (238) (171)
Total equity at end of year 7,812 6,737
2013 2012
£m £m The changes in non-controlling interests in the year primarily arose
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 5,600 4,265 from the voluntary open offer to acquire further shares in GSK
Borrowings – repayable within one year (2,789) (3,631) Pharmaceuticals Ltd, the Group’s Pharmaceutical subsidiary in India.
Borrowings – repayable after one year (15,456) (14,671)
Net debt (12,645) (14,037)
70 GSK Annual Report 2013Share purchases Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on loans
In 2013, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts are disclosed before taking into account the effect of derivatives.
acquired £45 million of shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc (2012 – We have entered into a number of research collaborations to develop
£37 million). Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. The terms of
of options and awards under the Group share option and award these arrangements can include upfront fees, equity investments,
schemes. A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect loans and commitments to fund specified levels of research. In
of awards where the rules of the scheme require us to satisfy addition, we will often agree to make further payments if future
exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of new ‘milestones’ are achieved.
shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to options and
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
awards granted.
stages of development, the potential obligation to make milestone
At 31 December 2013, the ESOP Trusts held 64 million (2012 – payments will continue for a number of years if the compounds move
75 million) GSK shares against the future exercise of share options successfully through the development process. Generally, the closer
and share awards. The carrying value of £355 million (2012 – the product is to marketing approval, the greater the possibility of
£391 million) has been deducted from other reserves. The market success. The amounts shown above within intangible assets
value of these shares was £1,025 million (2012 – £1,004 million). represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones were
During 2013, 92.4 million shares were repurchased at a cost of achieved, and include £5.2 billion which relates to externalised
£1,504 million (see Note 33 ‘Share capital and share premium projects in the discovery portfolio. A number of new commitments
account’). We are currently targeting further repurchases of £1-2 were made in 2013 under licensing and other agreements, including
billion during 2014. The exact amount and timing of future purchases, arrangements with Adimab LLC, Immunocore Ltd and MorphoSys AG.
and whether the shares will be held as Treasury shares or be In 2013, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK
cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent on pension schemes to make additional contributions over a three year
market conditions and other factors. At 31 December 2013, we held period, including in 2013, to eliminate the pension deficit identified
487.4 million shares as Treasury shares (2012 – 495 million shares), at the 31 December 2011 actuarial funding valuation. If the deficit
at a cost of £6,829 million (2012 – £6,602 million), which has been persists, further contributions would be payable in the following four
deducted from retained earnings. years depending on the level of deficit. The table above includes
No shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2014 to 5 this commitment but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding
February 2014. requirement in the UK of approximately £120 million. For further
information on pension obligations, see Note 28 to the financial
Commitments and contingent liabilities statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 40 to the financial
Contingent liabilities
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other
Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’. items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are
expected to expire.
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are set
out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
post-employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring £m £m £m £m £m
programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set out Guarantees 103 75 2 1 25
in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’. Other contingent liabilities 95 2 27 18 48
Total 198 77 29 19 73
Contractual obligations and commitments
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and In the normal course of business, we have provided various
commitments at 31 December 2013 as they fall due for payment. indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in
which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A provision
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
is made where an outflow of resources is considered probable and
£m £m £m £m £m
a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute
Loans 18,281 2,747 2,689 3,903 8,942
and this is included in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other
Interest on loans 10,063 674 1,244 1,049 7,096
provisions’.
Finance lease obligations 80 27 36 12 5
We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes when an
Finance lease charges 7 2 4 1 –
outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate
Operating lease
of the outflow may be made. At 31 December 2013, other than for
commitments 777 134 170 110 363
those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible
Intangible assets 7,056 419 1,107 1,251 4,279
to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might
Property, plant & equipment 443 372 69 2 – be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an
Investments 111 29 53 15 14 outflow was more than remote.
Purchase commitments 614 205 261 148 –
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from the
Pensions 510 85 170 170 85
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
Other commitments 233 75 123 35 –
proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. This is
Total 38,175 4,769 5,926 6,696 20,784 discussed further in ‘Risk factors’ on pages 232 to 241 and Notes 14
and 44 to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’ and ‘Legal proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2013 71Strategic report
Financial review
Cash generation and conversion Investment appraisal
A summary of the consolidated cash flow is set out below. We have a formal process for assessing potential investment
proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with our overall
2013 2012 strategy. This process includes an assessment of the cash flow return
£m £m
on investment (CFROI), as well as its net present value (NPV) and
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,222 4,375
internal rate of return (IRR) where the timeline for the project is very
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 524 (2,631)
long term. We also consider the impact on earnings and credit profile
Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,273) (3,351) where relevant.
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,473 (1,607)
The discount rate used to perform financial analyses is decided
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,906 5,605 internally, to allow determination of the extent to which investments
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,473 (1,607) cover our cost of capital. For specific investments the discount rate
Exchange adjustments (148) (92) may be adjusted to take into account country or other risk weightings.
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,231 3,906
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
comprise: to £1,701 million (2012 - £1,520 million) and disposals realised
£2,033 million (2012 – £1,124 million). Cash payments to acquire
Cash and cash equivalents 5,534 4,184
equity investments of £133 million (2012 – £229 million) were made
Overdrafts (303) (278)
in the year and sales of equity investments realised £59 million
5,231 3,906
(2012 – £28 million).
The net cash inflow from operating activities for the year was £7,222
Future cash flow
million (2012 – £4,374 million). The increase primarily reflected legal
We expect that future operating cash flow will be sufficient to fund
settlements being some £2.5 billion lower than in 2012, together with
our operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels of
the phasing of restructuring expenditure, lower tax payments and
capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing
pension contributions, partially offset by a smaller reduction in
agreements, to meet the expenditure arising from the major
working capital compared with 2012 given supply chain investments
restructuring programmes (the precise timing of which is uncertain)
in inventory and launch preparation.
outlined in Note 10 to the financial statements, ‘Major restructuring
Free cash flow costs’ and to meet other routine outflows including tax and dividends,
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business after subject to the ‘Risk factors’ discussed on pages 232 to 241. We may
meeting our obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to from time to time have additional demands for finance, such as for
non-controlling interests, and after capital expenditure on property, acquisitions and share repurchases. We have access to other
plant and equipment and intangible assets. sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital markets and
banks and other financial institutions, in addition to the cash flow
2013 2012 from operations, for such needs.
Free cash flow (£m) 4,657 2,049
Working capital
Free cash flow growth (%) >100% (51)%
Free cash flow was £4,657 million for the year. The increase on 2012 2013 2012
Working capital percentage of turnover (%) 19% 21%
primarily reflected the impact of lower tax payments and special UK
pension contributions, partly offset by a smaller reduction in working Working capital conversion cycle (days) 176 194
capital and increased expenditure on property, plant and equipment.
Our working capital programme has continued to make progress
We paid dividends to shareholders of £3,680 million, and spent
with further improvements in the collection of receivables and more
£1,504 million on repurchasing shares.
effective management of payables balances. During the year a
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, which is the number of initiatives were implemented across our supply chains
closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash flow is shown below. supporting the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
businesses that have provided stronger end-to-end accountability in
Reconciliation of free cash flow
each case. These programmes are at an early stage but have already
2013 2012 reduced volatility and improved responsiveness allowing better
£m £m inventory management. The net impact on inventory has been limited
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,222 4,375 in 2013 as significant investments have also been made in improving
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,188) (1,051) service levels and preparing for new product launches.
Purchase of intangible assets (513) (469)
The reported working capital conversion cycle days are distorted
Disposal of property, plant and equipment 46 68
by divestments made during the year and the intangible asset
Interest paid (749) (779)
impairments included in the denominator used in the conversion
Interest received 59 30 cycle computation. The year-end 2013 and 2012 conversion cycles,
Dividends received from joint ventures and adjusted for these factors, were around 190 days and around 200
associated undertakings 18 46 days, respectively, a reduction of 10 days.
Distributions to non-controlling interests (238) (171)
Free cash flow 4,657 2,049
72 GSK Annual Report 2013Maturity profile of gross debt
Maturity profile of gross debt
£m equivalent
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2022 2023 2025 2027 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042 2043 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds Commercial Paper Other bank borrowings Leases
Treasury policies Liquidity
GSK reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of sterling profits. As at 31 December 2013, our cash and liquid investments were held
The role of Corporate Treasury is to monitor and manage our external as follows:
and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of our
strategic objectives. GSK operates on a global basis, primarily through 2013 2012
£m £m
subsidiary companies, and we manage our capital to ensure that our
Bank balances and deposits 4,641 3,456
subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to optimise
US Treasury and Treasury repo
returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and
equity. Treasury activities are governed by policies approved by the only money market funds 893 728
Board of Directors, most recently on 9 July 2013. A Treasury Corporate debt instruments 1 7
Management Group (TMG) meeting chaired by our Chief Financial Government securities 65 74
Officer, takes place on a monthly basis to review treasury activities. 5,600 4,265
Its members receive management information relating to treasury
Cash and liquid investments of £3.9 billion, including amounts held by
activities.
ViiV Healthcare, were held centrally at 31 December 2013.
Capital management
We had net debt of £12.6 billion at 31 December 2013. The table below
Our financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities and
summarises cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging.
it is regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital structure
of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity.
2013 2012
£m £m
GSK’s financial architecture is designed to support the delivery of
Cash and liquid investments 5,600 4,265
the Group’s strategy, and to enhance returns to shareholders. There
Gross debt – fixed (15,593) (15,205)
are four key priorities: delivering sustainable sales growth, improving
operating leverage, improving financial efficiency and converting – floating (2,651) (3,090)
more of our earnings into cash. The free cash flow generated can – non-interest bearing (1) (7)
then be returned to shareholders or reinvested in bolt-on acquisitions, Net debt (12,645) (14,037)
wherever the most attractive returns are available. GSK continues
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
to apply strict financial and returns-based criteria such as cash
funding requirements. The cash flow forecast and funding
flow return on investment in order to allocate capital and assess
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis.
investment opportunities, whilst protecting its credit profile.
Our strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of
The business remains highly cash generative and in 2013 GSK facilities and to maintain broad access to funding markets.
generated £4.7 billion in free cash flow. In addition, we realised
GSK’s long-term credit ratings have remained unchanged since
£2.5 billion from divestments. In 2013, we returned a total of
February 2008. Our current ratings are A+ (stable outlook) by
£5.2 billion to shareholders, £3.7 billion in dividends and
Standard and Poor’s and A1 (negative outlook) by Moody’s Investors
£1.5 billion in share repurchases. Net debt at the end of the
Service (‘Moody’s’). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1
year stood at £12.6 billion, a reduction of £1.4 billion compared
with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
to the previous year.
In 2014, we expect to deliver continued dividend growth and as
part of the long-term share buyback programme are targeting
share repurchases of £1-2 billion depending on market conditions.
For further details see Note 41 to the financial statements
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
GSK Annual Report 2013 73Strategic report
Financial review
Treasury operations Counterparty risk management
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net cost GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
or income of financial operations to the benefit of earnings. We use investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
a variety of financial instruments to finance our operations and Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Corporate Treasury’s usage of
derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from these these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer
operations. These derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign (CCO) who operates independently of Corporate Treasury. Any
currency contracts and interest rate swaps, are used to swap breach of these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately.
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and,
purposes and to manage exposure to financial risks from changes when changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury so that
in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits as
appropriate. In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are
We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes. Our
reviewed regularly and a report is presented annually to the TMG for
Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All transactions
approval.
in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising
from underlying business activities, not for speculation.
Group reporting in 2014
Interest rate risk management
During 2014, GSK intends to report core results performance
GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and to measured against 2013 core results excluding divestments
balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over time. completed during 2013. The divestments include the disposals of
The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount of Lucozade and Ribena, the anti-coagulant products and several other
floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of operating minor products. Summary restated 2013 core results excluding
profit. divestments for 2013 are set out below.
We use interest rate swaps to redenominate one of our bonds into
Core results
floating interest rates. The duration of these swaps matches the Core Divested excluding
duration of the principal instrument. These interest rate derivative results businesses divestments
instruments are accounted for as fair value hedges of the relevant £m £m £m
liability. Turnover 26,505 (903) 25,602
Cost of sales (7,549) 474 (7,075)
Foreign exchange risk management
Selling, general and administration (7,928) 179 (7,749)
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and
external trade flows are not generally hedged. The Group’s objective Research and development (3,400) 6 (3,394)
is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries Royalty income 387 – 387
to transaction risk by matching local currency income with local Operating profit 8,015 (244) 7,771
currency costs where possible. Our internal trading transactions are
Profit before tax 7,366 (244) 7,122
matched centrally and we manage inter-company payment terms to
Profit after tax 5,671 (184) 5,487
reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency cash flows can be
hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury Profit attributable to shareholders 5,421 (184) 5,237
and the TMG. Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or Earnings per share (pence) 112.2p (3.8)p 108.4p
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using A reconciliation of core results to total results is set out on page 65.
forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the
originating currency.
Strategic Report
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek to
denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets and The Strategic Report was approved by a duly authorised
cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US dollars, Euros and Committee of the Board of Directors on 26 February 2014 and
Sterling. Certain borrowings can be swapped into other currencies signed on its behalf by:
as required.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated
as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major Simon Dingemans
currencies are also used to reduce exposure to our investment in Chief Financial Officer
overseas Group assets. The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings 26 February 2014
to assets for major currencies monthly.
74 GSK Annual Report 2013Governance &
remuneration
In this section
Our Board 76
Our Corporate Executive Team 80
Chairman’s letter 82
Board report to shareholders 83
Committee reports 89
Remuneration Committee
Chairman’s Annual Statement 96
Annual report on remuneration 97
Remuneration policy report 117
GSK Annual Report 2013 75Governance & remuneration
Our Board
Our Board
Diversity
Experience International experience
Number of directors with this experience
Scientific 20% Global 11
Finance 27% USA 15
Industry 53% Europe 14
EMAP 10
Tenure
Composition Non-Executives
Executive 20% 0-3 years 42%
Non-Executive 80% 4-6 years 8%
7-10 years
50%
Male 67%
The Board considers each of its Non-Executive Directors to be
Female 33% independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Sir Christopher Gent 65 Skills and experience
Sir Christopher has many years of experience of leading global
Chairman
businesses and a track record of delivering outstanding performance in
highly competitive industries. He was appointed Managing Director of
Nationality
Vodafone plc in 1985 and then became its Chief Executive Officer
British
in 1997 until his retirement in 2003.
Appointment date
External appointments
1 June 2004 and as Chairman
Sir Christopher is a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari SpA, a Senior
on 1 January 2005
Adviser at Bain & Co and a member of the British Airways International
Committee membership Business Advisory Board.
Chairman of the Nominations
and Corporate Responsibility
Committees and a member of
the Remuneration and Finance
Committees
Sir Andrew Witty 49 Skills and experience
Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985. He has worked in the UK, South Africa,
Chief Executive Officer
the USA and Singapore in various senior roles. In 2003, he was appointed
President of GSK Europe and joined GSK’s Corporate Executive Team.
Nationality
British In 2003 he was awarded the Public Service Medal by the Government of
Singapore and in August 2012 was also awarded the Public Service Star.
Appointment date
In the 2012 New Year Honours list, he was awarded a Knighthood for
31 January 2008 and as Chief
services to the economy and to the UK pharmaceutical industry. He
Executive Officer on 21 May 2008
served as the Lead Non-Executive Board member for the Department of
Committee membership Business, Innovation and Skills to December 2013. He was also
Member of the Finance Committee President of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and
Associations until July 2013.
External appointments
Sir Andrew is a member of the UK Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group
and was appointed to the UK Business Ambassador Group in January 2014.
Simon Dingemans 50 Skills and experience
Prior to joining GSK, Simon had over 25 years of experience in
Chief Financial Officer
investment banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs. During this
time, he advised a broad range of large corporates across a number of
Nationality
industry sectors, including pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare.
British
Simon advised GSK for over a decade before his appointment and was
Appointment date closely involved in a number of GSK’s key strategic projects, including the
4 January 2011 and as Chief establishment of ViiV Healthcare.
Financial Officer on 1 April 2011
External appointments
Committee membership Simon is a member of the Corporate Development Council for the
Member of the Finance Committee National Theatre and Deputy Chairman of the 100 Group.
76 GSK Annual Report 2013Dr Moncef Slaoui 54 Skills and experience
Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in 1988 where he engineered the
Chairman, Global R&D &
development of a robust vaccines pipeline. He then led Worldwide
Vaccines
Business Development for pharmaceutical products before his
appointment to lead R&D in 2006. He was also given overall responsibility
Nationality
for GSK’s Oncology Business in 2010; for GSK Vaccines in 2011; and for
Moroccan, Belgian & American
all Global Franchises in 2012. He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and
Appointment date Immunology from Université Libre de Bruxelles and has published more
17 May 2006 than 100 scientific papers and presentations. Prior to joining GSK,
Moncef was Professor of Immunology at the University of Mons, Belgium.
Committee membership
Member of the Finance Committee External appointments
Moncef is a member of the PhRMA and the Biotechnology Industry
Organization boards in the USA and a member of the Advisory Committee
to the Director of National Institutes of Health. He is also an adviser to the
Qatar Foundation, and a member of the Qatar Biomedical Research
Institute Scientific Advisory Committee. Moncef has advised the US
President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and he was
a member of the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology & Research
(A*STAR) until January 2011.
Sir Deryck Maughan 66 Skills and experience
Sir Deryck has a wealth of international corporate and investment
Senior Independent
banking experience, having previously served as Chairman and Chief
Non-Executive Director
Executive Officer of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Inc.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from
Nationality
1996 to 2000.
British
External appointments
Appointment date
Sir Deryck is a Senior Adviser to, and former partner of, Kohlberg
1 June 2004 and as Senior
Kravis Roberts & Co. He is a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock,
Independent Non-Executive
Inc. and Thomson Reuters. He is a Trustee of the British Museum and
Director on 1 May 2013
of New York University Langone Medical Center. He is also a Director
Committee membership of Lincoln Center.
Member of the Audit & Risk,
Nominations, Remuneration and
Finance Committees
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 66 Skills and experience
Professor Sir Roy is a world-renowned medical scientist with advanced
Independent Non-Executive
knowledge of infectious disease epidemiology and is currently Professor
Director & Scientific Expert
of Infectious Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London.
He is a fellow and member of the Policy Advisory Board of the Royal
Nationality
Society, and a fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Royal
British
Statistical Society. He is an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries
Appointment date and a Foreign Associate Member of the Institute of Medicine at the US
1 October 2007 National Academy of Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences.
Professor Sir Roy’s background enables him to bring scientific experience
Committee membership
to the Board’s deliberations.
Member of the Nominations and
Finance Committees External appointments
Professor Sir Roy is a member of the International Advisory Board
of Holdingham Group and he is a Trustee of the Natural History
Museum, London.
Dr Stephanie Burns 59 Skills and experience
Stephanie is a recognised global business leader, having served as
Independent Non-Executive
Chairman, President and CEO of Dow Corning Corporation until her
Director
retirement at the end of 2011. She has a strong scientific background,
with a PhD in organic chemistry with an organosilicon specialty, and is
Nationality
a staunch advocate for science education. She was an officer and
American
chairman of the American Chemistry Council.
Appointment date
External appointments
12 February 2007
Stephanie was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc in
Committee membership January 2012. She was appointed as a Director to the Board of Kellogg
Member of the Corporate Company on 25 February 2014. She sat on the US President’s Export
Responsibility, Remuneration and Council. Stephanie was also an officer of the Society of Chemical Industry,
Finance Committees America Section, and is the past Honorary President of the UK-based
parent society.
GSK Annual Report 2013 77Governance & remuneration
Our Board
Our Board
continued
Stacey Cartwright 50 Skills and experience
Stacey is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive experience of global
Independent Non-Executive
consumer businesses and of corporate finance. She served as Executive
Director
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Burberry Group plc until July
2013. Prior to joining Burberry Group plc in 2004, Stacey held the role
Nationality
of Chief Financial Officer at Egg plc between 1999 and 2003, and from
British
1988 to 1999 she worked in various finance-related positions at Granada
Appointment date Group plc.
1 April 2011
External appointments
Committee membership Stacey is Chief Executive Officer of the Harvey Nichols Group of
Member of the Audit & Risk and Companies, a role to which she was appointed in February 2014.
Finance Committees
Lynn Elsenhans 57 Skills and experience
Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and
Independent Non-Executive
significant knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates.
Director
She served as Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco
Inc from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President
Nationality
and Chief Executive Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell which
American
she joined in 1980 and where she held a number of senior roles, including
Appointment date Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
1 July 2012
External appointments
Committee membership Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes Inc, a Director of the
Member of the Audit & Risk, Texas Medical Center, and a Director of The First Tee of Greater Houston.
Corporate Responsibility and She is also a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston and a Trustee
Finance Committees of Rice University.
Judy Lewent 65 Skills and experience
Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry and
Independent Non-Executive
of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co in 1980 and then served
Director
as Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired. Judy has
previously served as a Non-Executive Director of Motorola Inc., Dell Inc.
Nationality
and Quaker Oats Company.
American
External appointments
Appointment date
Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc and
1 April 2011
Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust
Committee membership and Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Rockefeller Financial Services,
a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation
Chairman of the Audit & Risk
and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Judy is a
Committee and member of the
Non-Executive Director of Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp Pharmaceutical
Remuneration and Finance
Holdings Limited and certain Mundipharma International Limited
Committees.
companies.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 60 Skills and experience
Daniel is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced knowledge of
Independent Non-Executive
underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies for gastrointestinal
Director & Scientific Expert
disorders. He was formerly Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief
of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard
Nationality
Medical School, and previously served as the Chief Academic Officer
American
of Partners Healthcare System. Daniel’s current responsibilities in
Appointment date leading a large academic medical centre give him relevant insight into
1 July 2006 healthcare delivery. Daniel brings scientific expertise to the Board and
Committee membership the Audit & Risk Committee’s deliberations.
Member of the Audit & Risk, External appointments
Corporate Responsibility and Daniel is President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Finance Committees Center and holds the Philip O’Bryan Montgomery, Jr., M.D. Distinguished
Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the Doris and Bryan
Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science. He is a member
of the Institute of Medicine of the US National Academy of Sciences,
member of the Board of the Southwestern Medical Foundation and
is a Director of Antibe Therapeutics, Inc.
He is also a member of the National Academies of Sciences Board
on Army Science and Technology.
78 GSK Annual Report 2013Tom de Swaan 67 Skills and experience
Tom has had a long and distinguished career in the European banking
Independent Non-Executive
industry, having been a member of the Managing Board and Chief
Director
Financial Officer of ABN AMRO. Tom has held various executive positions
at the Dutch Central Bank and was a Non-Executive Director of the
Nationality
Financial Services Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority)
Dutch
from 2001 to 2007. He was previously a Non-Executive Director of
Appointment date KPMG’s Public Interest Committee and was also Vice Chairman of the
1 January 2006 Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Royal Ahold.
Committee membership External appointments
Chairman of the Remuneration Tom is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of VanLanschot Bankiers
Committee and a member of the and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Zurich Insurance Group.
Audit & Risk, Nominations and He is a member of the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM.
Finance Committees
Jing Ulrich 46 Skills and experience
Jing is Managing Director and Vice Chairman of Asia Pacific at JPMorgan
Independent Non-Executive
Chase. She advises the firm’s most senior global clients across all asset
Director
classes while building relationships with executives at Asia’s leading
enterprises. Jing is one of the most prominent advisors to the large global
Nationality
asset management companies, sovereign wealth funds, and multinational
American
corporations. She works with all lines of business at JPMorgan Chase to
Appointment date foster greater cross-border collaboration and strengthen senior client
1 July 2012 relationships in Asia Pacific and the rest of the world.
Committee membership Jing was Managing Director and Chair of Global Markets, China at
Member of the Audit & Risk and JPMorgan between 2005 and 2013. From 2003 to 2005, Jing worked
Finance Committees for Deutsche Bank as Managing Director, Head of Greater China
Equities. She previously held financial positions, specialising in the
Asia Pacific region, with CLSA Asia Pacific Markets and the Emerging
Markets Investors Corporation. She was educated at Harvard and
Stanford Universities.
External appointments
Jing is an Independent Director of Ermenegildo Zegna SpA.
Hans Wijers 63 Skills and experience
Hans has a broad range of business, economic and political experience,
Independent Non-Executive
having served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman at Akzo Nobel
Director
NV from 2002 to 2012. Hans had a long and distinguished career in
academia, public service and strategy consulting. He served as a senior
Nationality
vice president of the Boston Consulting Group from 1998 to 2002.
Dutch
External appointments
Appointment date
Hans is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Heineken NV and also
1 April 2013
Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell.
Committee membership He is also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AFC Ajax.
Member of the Corporate
Responsibility, Remuneration and
Finance Committees
Sir Robert Wilson 70 Skills and experience
Sir Robert has had a long and distinguished career in industry, mainly
Independent Non-Executive
with Rio Tinto, where he became Chief Executive Officer in 1991 and
Director
then Executive Chairman in 1997 until his retirement in October 2003.
Sir Robert then became Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc from
Nationality
January 2004 until May 2012. He was also Chairman of The Economist
British
Group between 2003 and 2009. He has been a Non-Executive Director
Appointment date at BP, Diageo and Boots.
1 November 2003
He stood down as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director,
Committee membership
and as a member of the Audit & Risk Committee, on 1 May 2013.
Member of the Corporate
Responsibility Nominations and External appointments
Finance Committees Sir Robert is a senior adviser to Morgan Stanley, Chairman of
Riverstone Energy Limited and Chairman of the Accenture Global
Mining Executive Council.
GSK Annual Report 2013 79Governance & remuneration
Our Corporate Executive Team
Our Corporate Executive Team
Sir Andrew Witty Simon Bicknell Deirdre Connelly Roger Connor
Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President, President, North America President, Global
Governance, Ethics and Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing & Supply
See ‘Our Board’ on page 76. Assurance
Deirdre joined GSK as President, Roger is President, Global
Simon was appointed Senior Vice North America Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing & Supply (GMS).
President, Governance, Ethics and in February 2009 after working at He was appointed to this role in
Assurance in January 2011 and he Eli Lilly and Company for 24 years. January 2013, after working for a
is responsible for risk management, She held a variety of positions year as President Designate, GMS.
compliance and strategic auditing. including President of US Operations, Roger joined GSK in 1998 from
Senior Vice President of Global
Simon joined the Company Secretariat Commercialisations for Woman’s AstraZeneca and has worked in a
in 1984 and became Deputy Company Health and Senior Vice President number of roles within finance and
Secretary of Glaxo Wellcome in 1995. of Human Resources. manufacturing strategy, including
He was appointed Company Secretary at GSK sites at Cork in Ireland and
of GlaxoSmithKline plc in May 2000 Deirdre is a native of San Juan, Puerto Ware in the UK. Prior to his role in
and combined this position with his Rico. She holds a Bachelor’s degree GMS, Roger was Vice President,
role as Corporate Compliance Officer in Marketing and Economics from Office of the CEO and Corporate
from 2006 until his current appointment. Lycoming College in Pennsylvania. Strategy from February 2010.
She graduated from Harvard
After gaining his Law degree, Simon University’s Advance Management He holds a Degree in Mechanical
qualified as a barrister in 1983 and Programme in 1999. and Manufacturing Engineering from
is a member of Middle Temple. Queen’s University Belfast and a
Deirdre serves as a Director on the Masters in Manufacturing Leadership
PhRMA Board, the Board of Macy’s from Cambridge University. He is also
Inc. and the Harvard University Public a Chartered Accountant.
Health Policy Council.
Simon Dingemans Abbas Hussain Bill Louv David Redfern
Chief Financial Officer President, Europe, Japan and Senior Vice President, Core Chief Strategy Officer
EMAP Business Services
See ‘Our Board’ on page 76. David was appointed Chief Strategy
Abbas was appointed President, Bill was appointed to create and lead Officer in May 2008 and is responsible
Europe and EMAP in September 2012 Core Business Services (CBS) in for proactive exploration of new
and became responsible for Japan in April 2010. CBS integrates the shared business opportunities, strategic
March 2013. He joined the company services of the global support planning and the leadership of the
as President, Emerging Markets & functions. He was previously Chief dermatology business. In addition to
Asia Pacific in June 2008. Information Officer. his current role, he was appointed
Chairman of the Board of ViiV
Previously Abbas spent 20 years Bill joined the company in 1994 as Healthcare Ltd. in April 2011.
at Eli Lilly where he held positions Vice President of Medical Data
including President, Europe and before Sciences, and has held a number of Previously, he was Senior Vice
that Vice President, Europe with increasingly senior roles in R&D and IT. President, Northern Europe with
specific responsibility for the Western responsibility for managing GSK’s
European mid-size countries, Africa Bill has a Bachelor of Science degree pharmaceutical businesses in that
& Middle East Area/Commonwealth in Biology from the College of William region and prior to that Senior Vice
of Independent States and Central & and Mary, and Master of Science and President for Central and Eastern
Eastern Europe regions. He also held Doctor of Philosophy degrees in Europe. David joined the company
positions in sales and marketing across Statistics from the University of Florida. in 1994 and held a series of finance
Australasia and India. roles before becoming Finance
Director of the European business
Abbas was appointed to ViiV from 1999-2002.
Healthcare Ltd. Board in October
2009 and the Aspen Board in David has a Bachelor of Science
December 2009. degree from Bristol University in the
UK and is a Chartered Accountant.
Born in Madras, India, Abbas has
a degree in Medicinal Chemistry &
Pharmacology from Loughborough
University.
80 GSK Annual Report 2013Dr Moncef Slaoui Claire Thomas Phil Thomson
Chairman, Global R&D Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President,
& Vaccines Human Resources Global Communications
See ‘Our Board’ on page 77. Claire was appointed Senior Vice Phil was appointed Senior Vice
President, Human Resources in May President, Global Communications
2008 and is responsible for GSK’s in August 2010. He has responsibility
Environmental Sustainability Strategy. for Media Relations, Investor Relations,
She was previously Senior Vice Corporate Responsibility, Internal
President, Human Resources, Communications and Product
Pharmaceuticals International. Communications.
Claire joined the company in 1996 Phil joined Glaxo Wellcome as a
and was appointed Senior Vice commercial trainee in 1996, moving
President, Human Resources, and from pharmaceutical brand marketing
Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, to product communications. In 1999
where she successfully led the he became a Director of Media
HR function through the merger. Relations for Glaxo Wellcome plc
and in 2001, took up the position of
Prior to joining the company she
Director, Investor Relations for GSK.
worked for Ford Motor Company,
In 2004, he returned to Corporate
holding various positions in Human
Media Relations as Vice President.
Resources.
Phil earned his degree in English and
Claire has a Bachelor of Science
History from Durham University.
degree in Economics, Management and
Industrial Relations from the University
of Wales. Claire was honoured as an
Outstanding European Woman of
Achievement in 2007.
Dan Troy Patrick Vallance Emma Walmsley
Senior Vice President & President, Pharmaceuticals President, Consumer
General Counsel R&D Healthcare Worldwide
Dan joined the company as Senior Patrick was appointed President, Emma assumed the role of President,
Vice President & General Counsel Pharmaceuticals R&D, in January Consumer Healthcare Worldwide in
in September 2008. 2012. Prior to his appointment he October 2011 after joining GSK in
was Senior Vice President, Medicines May 2010 as President of Consumer
He was previously a Partner at the
Discovery and Development. Healthcare Europe.
Washington law firm Sidley Austin
LLP, where he represented mainly Patrick joined the company in 2006 Under Emma’s leadership the business
pharmaceutical companies and trade as Head of Drug Discovery. He has a new strategic direction to
associations on matters related to the focused the organisation on science become the first and best fast moving
US Food and Drug Administration that has the best chance of leading Consumer Healthcare company, driven
(FDA) and government regulations. to new medicines, and created by science and values, combining
Dan was formerly Chief Counsel for small, multidisciplinary teams called the very best of GSK’s scientific
the FDA, where he served as a primary Discovery Performance Units. He is knowledge with the speed and
liaison to the White House and the transforming the way in which we marketing excellence of the fast
US Department of Health and Human approach late stage clinical trial moving consumer goods world.
Services. design and execution.
Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked
Dan is a graduate from Cornell Prior to joining GSK Patrick was a with L’Oreal for 17 years where she
University’s School of Industrial and clinical academic at University College held a variety of marketing and general
Labor Relations, and earned his law London. Patrick is a member of the management roles in Paris, London
degree from Columbia University Board of the Agency for Science, and New York. From 2007 she was
School of Law. Technology & Research (A*STAR) based in Shanghai as General
and is a director of Genome Manager, Consumer Products,
Research Limited. L’Oreal China.
She has a degree in Classics and
Modern Languages from Oxford
University.
GSK Annual Report 2013 81Governance & remuneration
Corporate governance
Corporate governance
Letter to shareholders
Dear Shareholder The new style Remuneration Report on
pages 96 to 126 now comprises:
As Chairman of the Board, I am committed
• a Chairman’s statement in which Tom
to ensuring that GSK operates at the highest
de Swaan, the Remuneration Committee
standards of corporate governance. We
Chairman, reflects on the Committee’s
believe our governance structure underpins
decisions during the year and outlines the
our ability to deliver the Group’s strategy to
Committee’s agenda for 2014;
grow a diversified business, deliver more
products of value and simplify the operating • a n Annual report on remuneration which
model. sets out how the Committee has
implemented GSK’s remuneration policy
New Governance & remuneration during the year, and the way in which we
reporting changes propose to operate GSK’s policy in 2014;
In light of the new provisions in the Financial and
Reporting Council’s update to the UK
• a Remuneration policy report which sets
Corporate Governance Code (the updated
out GSK’s proposed remuneration policy,
Code), and the commencement of the new
to apply for three years from the end of our
Remuneration Reporting Regulations, we
Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014.
have reviewed our governance and corporate
reporting arrangements. The updated Code Annual governance meetings
is available at www.frc.org.uk.
During the year, I was pleased to Chair
With respect to the principal areas of change governance meetings with shareholders in
set out in the updated Code, we have taken the UK and the US alongside Judy Lewent,
the following actions: Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee, and
Sir Deryck Maughan, the Senior Independent
• I n last year’s Annual Report we disclosed,
Director (SID). At these meetings, I was
ahead of time, our diversity policy and
able to discuss a broad range of governance
measurable diversity targets. I am pleased
matters with shareholders, including Board
to report that, in relation to gender
and management dynamics, Director
diversity, we have maintained our female
induction, training and development
representation on the Board at 33% since
arrangements, and succession planning,
July 2012, which places GSK firmly in the
whilst imparting details of the important
top ten of the FTSE 100 in terms of female
work undertaken by the Nominations and
board member representation.
Corporate Responsibility Committees.
• E nhancements have been made to the Judy provided an overview of the role
Audit & Risk Committee report (ARC and activities of the Audit & Risk Committee
report) on pages 89 to 92. These and Sir Deryck shared his insights and
enhancements include discussion of the perspectives on our Board and governance
significant issues relating to the financial structure with shareholders, since taking
statements that the Committee considered over the role of SID from Sir Robert Wilson
and addressed during the year. The ARC in May 2013.
report also highlights to shareholders the
The following pages outline our approach to
key areas of focus of the Committee during
governance. Building on the work undertaken
the year.
in last year’s Annual Report to restructure
The new Remuneration Reporting the Corporate governance report, this year,
Regulations came into effect for the in addition to consolidating several of the
2013 financial reporting year. We were statutory disclosures into the Shareholder
a participating member of the GC100 Information section of the Annual Report on
and Investor Group that helped to develop pages 242 to 250, our risk disclosures that
guidance aimed at assisting UK quoted have previously appeared in the Corporate
companies to understand the practical governance report have been incorporated
implementation of these new Regulations. into an expanded risk management section
The introduction of these Regulations on pages 18 to 19.
have also provided us with the opportunity
I commend this report to all of our
to take a fresh look at how we present the
shareholders.
reporting of our Directors’ remuneration
arrangements.
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
26 February 2014
82 GSK Annual Report 2013Board report to shareholders – Oversight and stewardship in 2013 and future actions
The Board
The Board is pleased to report that it was in full compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company, corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial
performance. It is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and governed, and delivers GSK’s
strategy to Grow, Deliver and Simplify.
2013 Board programme
The Board met six times in 2013 and each Board member attended all scheduled Board meetings with the exception of Sir Deryck Maughan,
Tom de Swaan and Hans Wijers who were each unable to attend one meeting due to prior business commitments. They each conveyed their
views and comments to the Chairman on the matters to be discussed, which were shared with the other Directors at the meeting.
The Board agendas were shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and debate, and included ‘Deep Dive’ reviews of key issues for the
business, to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities. During 2013, the agendas for Board meetings included the following business:
Month Strategy Board oversight Governance Risk oversight*
January Review extension of Operational Excellence Review of 2012 financial Review of internal 2012 Board Review of risk
programme results and outlook for 2013 evaluation report and internal
Review of Notice of AGM Secretary’s Report (including controls process
Re-appointment of auditors regulatory and governance updates)
March Review EMAP performance and strategy Preparation for AGM
update Secretary’s Report (including
‘Deep Dive’ – global franchises and product regulatory and governance updates)
launch readiness
Review of business development projects
May Annual Global Manufacturing Preparation for AGM
and Supply and Vaccines Secretary’s Report
business reviews (including regulatory and governance
updates)
July ‘Deep Dive’ – pipeline launches Annual North America and Secretary’s Report (including
Review of talent and leadership development R&D pharmaceuticals reviews regulatory and governance updates)
strategy
Review of Treasury funding and pensions Review of capital and licensing
strategies proposals
Review of long range forecast
October Review of output from the annual Board & Annual business reviews of Review of projects and
CET strategy meeting Consumer Healthcare and transactions approved by the
Review of Group Insurance strategy Japan Board
Review of US pension fund investment and Secretary’s Report (including
hedging strategy regulatory and governance updates)
December ‘Deep Dive’ – China business Secretary’s Report (including
Europe strategy update review regulatory and governance updates)
Review and approval of 2014-16 plan
* During the year, all Board members were invited to attend the Audit & Risk Committee meetings where risk matters were routinely discussed.
2013 Board performance
During 2012, the Board identified certain actions to assist in adding further value to its deliberations. The performance of the Board in 2013
against these actions is set out below:
Actions Progress/Achievement
(i) The external landscape The Board programme was expanded to include briefings in these
Board members were keen to supplement their understanding of the external areas by Dr Moncef Slaoui and members of his senior team. The
landscape with ‘teach-ins’ on a range of topics, such as various therapeutic areas, Board in October visited GSK’s R&D facility in Upper Providence as
the design of phase III trials, pricing, biopharmaceuticals, pharmacogenomics and part of the Board/CET strategy meeting to view at first hand,
emerging technology in R&D. emerging technologies in R&D and manufacturing.
(ii) Oversight of strategy The Board programme was adjusted to set aside more time for
The Board wished to spend more time on business unit strategy, competitor ‘Deep Dive’ and business development reviews during the year.
analysis, pricing regimes, acquisition strategy and emerging issues.
(iii) Board composition The Nominations Committee continues to focus on long-term
The Nominations Committee was tasked with identifying further suitable recruitment of Non-Executive Directors.
candidates to replace Board members due to retire in the next few years. The Board was pleased to welcome a new Non-Executive Director,
Hans Wijers, who provides experience of running global
organisations to the Board’s deliberations.
These actions are set out in full on page 96 of GSK’s 2012 Annual Report, which discusses the internally facilitated evaluation of the Board’s
activities by the Senior Independent Director.
GSK Annual Report 2013 83Governance & remuneration
Corporate governance
Board report to shareholders – Oversight and stewardship in 2013 and future actions continued
2013 & 2014 AGMs – Key highlights at a glance
2014 AGM – to be held on 7 May 2014 at QEII Conference Centre,
2013 AGM – held on 1 May 2013 at QEII Conference Centre, London London
• Full Director attendance • Sir Robert Wilson will stand down from the Board after ten years’
• 3.7 to 3.75 billion votes cast for each resolution (76.5% of issued of service
share capital) • All other Directors will stand for re-election to the Board
• Sir Crispin Davis stood down after nine years’ service • The Board believes that each Director is effective and demonstrates
• All other Directors retired and were either elected or re-elected to commitment to his or her role
the Board, receiving at least 97.8% of the votes cast in favour • Each Director has been formally evaluated by the Chairman before
• Highest votes in favour: 99.9% to elect or re-elect a number of standing for re-election
Directors
• Lowest votes in favour: 90.2% to reduce the required notice for
a general meeting
Induction programme – Hans Wijers
(i) Individually designed and facilitated: by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
(ii) Purpose: to orientate and familiarise Hans, who was appointed to the Board in 2013, with our strategy to Grow, Deliver and Simplify
and with the industry, our organisation and our governance arrangements.
(iii) Customised: to take account of his experience, geographical background and business perspectives, together with the Committees
on which he would serve.
Key elements of the one-to-one induction briefing sessions and site visits undertaken by Hans in 2013 are set out below:
Contact/Activity Induction content
Executive Directors GSK’s strategic, financial and R&D priorities
CET members Wide spectrum of GSK business operations, including Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
businesses, Strategic Development, Investor Relations and Global Communications and CR strategies
Senior Executives Focused on a number of core functions such as Finance, Tax, Treasury, Audit and Assurance, Risk Management
and Investor Relations
Company Secretary Legal and regulatory duties of a UK listed company director and the corporate governance practices within GSK
Site visits Tours of our GMS and R&D sites in Upper Merrion and Upper Providence in the US
Investor meetings Meetings with investors as requested
The induction and training programme for Hans has continued in 2014, with a focus on internal management meeting attendance and
operational site visits in order to provide Hans with a good perspective on how management operates, and to provide him with opportunities
to meet key talent within GSK, as well as to deepen his understanding of key business issues.
Board performance action points for 2014
The agreed action points arising from the 2013 Board evaluation review facilitated by our Senior Independent Director, Sir Deryck Maughan,
against which progress will be disclosed in GSK’s 2014 Annual Report, are set out below:
(i) Strategy
The Board would look to take a longer term view (ten years) of the key strategic issues facing the company.
(ii) Board meetings
Time spent on routine matters would be further managed to enable strategic/business discussions to take priority, whilst ensuring the
critical areas of oversight were maintained.
(iii) A nnual Board/CET meetings
The structure and format of these sessions would be reviewed to ensure that they are appropriately geared to realising maximum value
in terms of strategic insights and direction setting.
(iv) China review
All appropriate actions would be reviewed by the Board and implemented as necessary on the conclusion of the external investigation,
and the Ropes and Gray independent review.
84 GSK Annual Report 2013Leadership and effectiveness Senior Independent Director
Sir Deryck Maughan has been our Senior Independent Director (SID)
The Board since 1 May 2013, when he succeeded Sir Robert Wilson, who had
The Board met six times in 2013, with each member attending as been our SID since 20 May 2009. Sir Deryck’s role is to act as a
follows: sounding board for Sir Christopher and a trusted intermediary for the
other Directors. He is also available as an additional point of contact
Number of Number of for shareholders. His responsibilities include the evaluation of the
meetings held whilst a meetings performance of the Chairman and, at the request of the Chairman,
Board member attended
evaluating the Board and its Committees (in collaboration with the
Sir Christopher Gent 6 6/6
Committee Chairmen) in years when the evaluation is conducted
Sir Andrew Witty 6 6/6 internally. The SID also works with the Chairman on the process for
Simon Dingemans 6 6/6 the selection of a new Chairman as appropriate, and he chairs the
Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6/6 Nominations Committee when agreeing the recommendation to the
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6/6 Board for the Chairman’s successor.
Dr Stephanie Burns 6 6/6 Sir Deryck maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns
Stacey Cartwright 6 6/6 of our major shareholders through meetings with them and through
Sir Crispin Davis* 3 3/3 reports from our Investor Relations team.
Lynn Elsenhans 6 6/6
Judy Lewent 6 6/6 CEO
Sir Deryck Maughan 6 5/6 Sir Andrew is responsible for the management of the business,
Dr Daniel Podolsky 6 6/6 developing the Group’s strategic direction for consideration and
approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy. He is
Tom de Swaan 6 5/6
assisted by other members of the Corporate Executive Team (CET),
Jing Ulrich 6 6/6
which meets at least 11 times a year and more often if required.
Hans Wijers** 4 3/4
Sir Robert Wilson 6 6/6 Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under ‘Our
Corporate Executive Team’ on pages 80 and 81.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a
quorate basis on three occasions to consider corporate transactions,
Company Secretary
including authorising the disposal of the Lucozade and Ribena
The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, is a solicitor and a Fellow
brands, and the China investigations.
of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. Victoria
* S ir Crispin Davis retired from the Board on 1 May 2013. was formerly Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the Remuneration
** H ans Wijers was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with Committee. She has acted as Secretary to the Board and all the
effect from 1 April 2013. Board’s Committees since her appointment as Company Secretary
on 1 January 2011.
Sir Deryck Maughan, Tom de Swaan and Hans Wijers were each
unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior business The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in designing
commitments. the induction for new Directors, in the delivery of the corporate
governance agenda, in particular in the planning of agendas for the
The Chairman annual cycle of Board and Committee meetings, and in ensuring that
information is made available to Board members on a timely basis.
Sir Christopher Gent’s role as Chairman is to lead and manage the
The Company Secretary advises the Directors on Board procedures
business of the Board and to provide direction and focus, while
and corporate governance matters, and arranges for the Non-
ensuring that there is a clear structure for the effective operation of
Executive Directors to attend internal management meetings and
the Board and its Committees. He sets the agenda for Board
make visits to our business operations to enhance their knowledge
discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and to
and understanding of the business.
support a sound decision-making process, ensuring that the Board
receives accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about the During 2013, the Company Secretary responded to various
company’s performance. consultations on the evolving global governance and corporate
reporting agenda on behalf of the Group and engaged with
Sir Christopher works closely with Sir Andrew Witty to ensure that
shareholders to ensure they fully understood GSK’s governance
the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are effectively
and remuneration arrangements.
implemented and provides support and advice to Sir Andrew, while
respecting his executive responsibility for managing the Group. The
Independence
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has
been agreed by the Board and is set out in the governance section of The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be
our website. independent in character and judgement and free from any business
or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise
Sir Christopher is responsible to shareholders for the performance of of their judgement. The Chairman satisfied the independence test on
the Group and leads discussions and the development of relations his appointment to the Board.
with them.
The independence of those Non-Executive Directors who have served
Non-Executive Directors on the Board for over six years was subjected to a rigorous review.
In particular, the Board considered that Sir Deryck Maughan and Sir
The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element
Robert Wilson, who have served on the Board for over nine years,
on the Board. They are well placed to constructively challenge and
continued to demonstrate the characteristics of independence, such
support management and to shape proposals on strategy and
as challenging management and taking part in rigorous debate, whilst
succession planning. Between them, they bring independent
possessing outstanding knowledge of the company’s business affairs.
judgement and a breadth of skills and experience gained at the most
senior levels of international business operations and academia.
GSK Annual Report 2013 85Governance & remuneration
Corporate governance
Corporate governance framework
The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities designed to safeguard
and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust platform to realise the Group’s strategy to Grow, Deliver and Simplify. Our
internal control and risk management arrangements, which are described on pages 88, and 18 to 19 are an integral part of GSK’s governance
framework.
Board
(Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and
11 independent Non-Executive Directors)
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Chief Executive
Committee Committee Committee Officer
Corporate Responsibility Finance Corporate Administration Corporate Executive
Committee Committee & Transactions Committee Team
Board Committees
In order for the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established by
the Board. A summary of the role of each Board Committee is set out in the table below. The full terms of reference of each Committee
are available on our website and reports on the membership of, and work undertaken by, the Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nominations and
Corporate Responsibility Committees during 2013 are given on pages 89 to 95 and 107 to 108.
Corporate
Corporate Administration
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Finance & Transactions
Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and
recommends: recommends: approves: approves:
Financial and internal External issues that
reporting processes, To the Board the Structure, size and have the potential for The Annual Report Matters in connection
integrity of the overall executive composition of the serious impact upon and Form 20-F, the with the administration
financial statements, remuneration policy Board and the GSK’s business convening of the of the Group’s
system of internal To the Board the appointment of Oversight of: AGM, the preliminary business and certain
controls, identification appropriate fees for members to the and quarterly results corporate transactions
and management the Chairman Board, its Committees Reputation announcements
of risks and external and the CET management
and internal audit Determines: Approves:
Monitors:
processes Terms of service and Certain major
remuneration of Succession to the licensing and capital
Proposes: Executive Directors Board and CET transactions and
Appointment of and other members changes to the
external auditors of the CET Group’s Investment
Instrument and
Responsible for: Reviews and Counterparty Limits
Initiating an audit approves:
tender, the selection The Directors’
of external auditors, Remuneration Report
their remuneration and
oversight of their work
86 GSK Annual Report 2013Board induction, business awareness and training The Board’s diversity policy is set out on page 94 and for details of
The induction programme for Hans Wijers presented on page 84 the gender diversity of GSK’s global workforce, see page 55 of
illustrates the typical induction format for a new Director. Responsible business.
To ensure that Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain a Time allocation
greater insight and understanding of the business, they are invited
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which sets
to attend internal management meetings, including meetings of the
out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
CET, the Research & Development Executive, the Product Executive,
the Scientific Review Board, the Portfolio Investment Board, the Sir Christopher and the Non-Executive Directors are expected to
Commercial Accountability Board and the Risk Oversight and devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance of their
Compliance Council. They also meet employees informally during duties. No precise timings are given as this will vary from year to year
visits to the Group’s operations and at receptions held around Board depending on the company’s activities. Directors are expected to
meetings. attend all Board meetings, and any additional meetings as required.
The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory and governance They are also expected to attend meetings of the Committees of
matters through regular papers from the Company Secretary and which they are members, the Audit & Risk Committee meetings
presentations by internal and external advisers. (which are open to all Directors in furtherance of their risk and
compliance responsibilities) and strategy sessions, and to make visits
During the year, the Board was briefed on various developments in
to operational sites. In addition, Board members are invited to attend
narrative and executive remuneration reporting, going concern, risk
at least one CET meeting a year and may attend certain Research &
management, board diversity, the impact of the UK and EU reviews
Development Executive and other operational meetings.
of the audit market, market abuse and insider trading, shareholder
engagement and other developments in corporate governance, 2013 Board and Chairman’s evaluation
including the requirements of the September 2012 update to the UK
The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and the
Corporate Governance Code.
performance of its Committees every year which is facilitated
The Board members undertook specific refresher training on, and externally every third year. The progress of the Board against the
under the provisions of, the Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) outcomes of the 2012 evaluation, which was internally facilitated by
in 2013 which was delivered at the Audit & Risk Committee. Each the previous SID, Sir Robert Wilson, is reported on page 83. The
new Board member will, as part of his or her induction programme, action points arising from the 2013 evaluation of the Board facilitated
receive comprehensive training on the CIA. Hans Wijers has taken by the current SID, Sir Deryck Maughan, are disclosed on page 84.
part in such a training session in 2013 as part of his induction. The feedback from the Board evaluation is summarised below.
Sir Christopher also meets with each Director annually on a one-to- The Board is viewed by all Board members as effective. The
one basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and development pharmaceutical industry is undergoing fundamental change and the
requirements. Board has worked hard to understand the opportunities and
risks this poses to our strategy, and is supportive of the direction
Board composition articulated by the management team. Debates are open and robust
We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose and everyone is encouraged to contribute. Corporate responsibility,
capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic ethics and compliance are taken seriously, and there is a good
positioning of our business. The process for Board appointments is led balance between the core values of the company and the interests
by the Nominations Committee and is described on pages 93 to 94. of shareholders.
We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board The openness of Sir Andrew and the management team to Board
and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so input is viewed by the Board members as exemplary. The ability for
that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors, Directors to attend management meetings and visit sites enhances
while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which the Board’s competence.
more recent appointees bring to the Board’s deliberations.
The Board is well balanced in terms of diversity of experiences,
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries however, the desirability of adding an experienced Director from the
and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, medical UK listed environment is acknowledged.
research and academia, and retail and financial services, and have
The Board Committees have strong and engaged leaders, significant
appropriate experience of complex organisations with global reach.
workloads to discharge, and play an important role in the company’s
Some have considerable experience of the pharmaceutical industry
governance.
and the more recent appointees bring a new approach to the Group,
and to Board discussions.
Board diversity
We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom and we are
similarly committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at
all levels of the organisation. The diversity and inclusiveness of our
workforce are promoted throughout GSK.
We believe that a key requirement of an effective board is that it
comprises a range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge,
gender and independence, with individuals that are prepared to
challenge each other and work as a team. This needs to be backed
up by a diversity of personal attributes, including character, intellect,
sound judgement, honesty and courage.
GSK Annual Report 2013 87Governance & remuneration
Corporate governance
The Non-Executive Directors, led by Sir Deryck, met separately, Relations with shareholders
without Sir Christopher being present, to discuss his performance.
They considered his leadership, performance and overall contribution We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regular
to be of a high standard. communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
The Chairmen of each of the Board Committees undertook separate We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis. The annual
evaluations of their Committees and the outcome of each evaluation results are included in our Annual Report. All shareholders receive
was reported and discussed with the respective Committee and the an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual Report and
Board. Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available on our website.
In addition, Sir Christopher met with all the Non-Executive Directors During the year, Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans gave
independently of the Executive Directors. presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the media
on the full year results, which are also available via webcast and
Accountability teleconference. After the first, second and third quarter results,
we hold webcast teleconferences for the same audience.
Internal control framework Our results are available on our website.
The Board recognises its responsibilities to present a fair, balanced and Our Investor Relations department, with offices in London and
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects. Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with investors.
Sir Andrew, Simon and Sir Christopher maintain a continuous
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the
dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans and
effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including
objectives through a programme of regular meetings. During the year
financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management.
they held over 90 individual meetings with investors and they have
The internal control framework (the Framework) has been in operation also hosted approximately 29 group meetings with investors and
for the whole of the year and continues to operate up to the date of potential investors.
approval of this Annual Report. The Framework is the process by
The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications
which compliance with laws and regulations, the reliability of financial
on corporate governance matters. We also have a small central
reporting and the effectiveness and efficiency of operations are
Corporate Responsibility (CR) team which co-ordinates strategy,
reviewed. The Framework assists in the identification, evaluation,
policy development and reporting specifically with respect to CR
and management of principal risks as required by the UK Corporate
matters. The team communicates with socially responsible investors
Governance Code (the UK Code), and is designed to manage
and other stakeholders.
rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business objectives.
We believe the Framework provides reasonable, but not absolute Sir Christopher also meets regularly with institutional shareholders
assurance against material misstatement or loss. to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance, and
communicates their views to the other members of the Board. The
The Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee) receives reports on
SID and all the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with
areas of significant risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
shareholders.
Following consideration of these reports, the Committee reports
annually to the Board on the effectiveness of controls. The Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Chairman and the
Head of Human Resources held their annual meetings with major
The Board, through the Committee, has reviewed the assessment
shareholders in November to discuss executive remuneration.
of risks and the Framework, and has considered the effectiveness of
the system of internal controls in operation in the Group for the year In addition, the Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee Chair and
covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the SID held separate meetings with major UK shareholders in
the Board. The Board’s review focuses on the company and its December, and with major US shareholders in January 2014 on
subsidiaries and does not extend to material associated undertakings, governance matters.
joint ventures or other investments, although it considers the risk of
We have a briefing process in place for Non-Executive Directors,
the company’s participation in these activities. There are established
managed by Sir Christopher, to focus on sector specific issues and
procedures and controls in place to identify entities whose results
general shareholder preferences.
must be consolidated with the Group’s results.
We believe the process followed by the Board in reviewing the Remuneration Report
system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal
Our Remuneration Report comprises the Remuneration Committee
control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
Chairman’s Annual Statement, the Annual Report on Remuneration
This is in accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, which and the Remuneration Policy Report, and is set out on pages 96
provide that the Board is responsible for determining the nature to 126.
and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its
strategic objectives. The Board provides oversight to help ensure Committee Reports
that the Group maintains sound risk management and internal
control systems. The reports on the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Corporate
Responsibility Committees describing the activities of those
A review of the Group’s risk management approach is further
Committees during the year, are set out on pages 89 to 95.
discussed in the Risk Management section on pages 18 to 19.
Our management of each principal risk is explained on pages
232 to 241.
88 GSK Annual Report 2013Audit & Risk Committee Report Ropes and Gray report directly to GSK’s General Counsel and,
as Chair of the Committee, I have unfettered access to the law firm
partners who are leading this independent investigation. In addition,
time continues to be set aside at Committee meetings to consider
this matter.
Finally, I was delighted to welcome Jing Ulrich and Lynn Elsenhans as
new members of the Committee as part of the ongoing refreshment
of the composition of the Committee, and I am pleased with the
contribution they have already made to the Committee’s deliberations.
Judy Lewent
Audit & Risk Committee Chairman
Membership and attendance
Dear Shareholder The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates
and attendance at meetings during 2013, is set out below:
During 2013, the Committee’s agenda included a review of the
integrity of our financial results, the appropriateness of the system of
Attendance at full
internal controls, our business operations across the world and their meetings during
management of risk, as well as focusing consideration on new Members Committee member since 2013
emerging risks. Judy Lewent (Chairman from
1 January 2013) 1 April 2011 6/6
The Committee’s Report, which includes descriptions of the work
Professor Sir Roy Anderson* 20 May 2009 3/3
undertaken by the Committee during the year, has been modified
Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 6/6
to reflect new Audit Committee responsibilities and reporting
requirements under the UK Corporate Governance Code (the UK Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 0/0
Code) and Guidance for Audit Committees issued by the Financial Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 4/6
Reporting Council (FRC) in September 2012. In particular, the Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 6/6
Committee Report discusses the significant issues that the Tom de Swaan 1 January 2006 5/6
Committee considered and addressed in relation to the financial Jing Ulrich 1 May 2013 3/3
statements and outlines how the Committee has assisted the Board Sir Robert Wilson* 12 December 2003 3/3
of Directors in making their statement on page 128, confirming that
* P rofessor Sir Roy Anderson and Sir Robert Wilson both stood down
GSK’s 2013 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and
as members of the Committee on 1 May 2013.
understandable.
Tom de Swaan was unable to attend one and Sir Deryck Maughan
Since the start of 2013, after the Committee and the Board
was unable to attend two Committee meetings due to prior business
considered the division between their work in terms of risk
commitments.
management, it was agreed that all Board members would be invited
to attend the entire Committee meetings. The Board continued to In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met
cover those risks specifically reserved for its review to ensure on a quorate basis on four occasions to review or approve matters
continuity and consistency of coverage and oversight. associated with the Annual Report and Accounts and Form 20-F,
and preliminary and quarterly results announcements.
I have completed my first full year as the Chair of the Committee and,
in that time, I have enhanced my knowledge and understanding of the All Board members are invited to attend the Committee meetings
Group through meetings with a range of senior executives to discuss and other attendees include:
issues brought to the Committee by management, by attending CET, Regular Attends
Risk Oversight Compliance Council and other management meetings, Attendee attendee as required
as well as connecting with the network of Compliance Officers, on Chairman ✓
whom the Group relies to oversee and drive compliance within GSK. CEO ✓
CFO ✓
As a matter of routine, I also held pre-Committee briefing meeting
sessions with management and the external auditors and generally made General Counsel ✓
myself available if any Director, senior executive, or the external audit Financial Controller ✓
partner wished to discuss any particular matters with me in more detail. Head of Audit & Assurance ✓
Company Secretary – Secretary to the
I was pleased to attend, alongside the Chairman and the Senior
Committee ✓
Independent Director, my first annual governance meetings that were
Chairman, Research & Development ✓
held with major UK shareholders in December 2013, and major US
Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance ✓
shareholders in January 2014, at which I had the opportunity to discuss
Chief Medical Officer ✓
areas of mutual importance in relation to the work of the Committee.
Chief Product Quality Officer ✓
Events during the year have brought evidence that vigilance and External auditor ✓
continuous improvements to our internal control and risk management
processes and systems must remain a high priority for the Committee.
The allegations of fraudulent behaviour within our business in China are
currently under investigation by the authorities in the country. Separately,
we have commissioned an independent review by the international law
firm, Ropes and Gray, into what has happened in China.
GSK Annual Report 2013 89Governance & remuneration
Corporate governance
In accordance with the UK Code, the Board has determined that Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom de Swaan all have recent and
relevant financial experience. The Board has also agreed that Stacey, Judy and Tom have the appropriate qualifications and background to be
audit committee financial experts as defined by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that each is independent within the
meaning of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
In addition, Judy Lewent, Sir Deryck Maughan and Tom de Swaan are members of the Remuneration Committee, which allows them to
provide input on the Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and oversight on any risk factors relevant to remuneration matters.
Work undertaken by the Committee during 2013
The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities agreed in conjunction with the Committee Chair,
management and the external auditors at the start of the financial year. This programme comprised standing items that the Committee was
required to consider at each meeting and other matters timed to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle and other
business events.
The Committee considered, discussed and made decisions in relation to a number of matters during the year, the most significant of which
are set out below.
Global internal control & Governance and other
Financial reporting compliance External auditors Risk matters
Reviewed integrity of draft Reviewed global assurance Reviewed audit/non-audit Considered emerging risks Confirmed compliance with
financial statements, and business unit expenditure during 2012 Reviewed risk management UK Corporate Governance
appropriateness of assurance reports Considered auditors’ report framework compliance Code
accounting policies and Reviewed litigation reports regarding their findings on Endorsed review of risks and Discussed annual
going concern assumption Reviewed internal control 2012 annual results approved addition of new evaluation exercise of
R ree cv oie mw me ed n a dn ed d approval of framework Performed evidence-based e mm oe nr itg oi rn ing g risks to register for C plo anm tm oi t ft ue re th, ea rg ir mee pd ro a vc et ion
Confirmed compliance with assessment of external operation of Committee
2012 Annual Report and Sarbanes-Oxley Act auditors and effectiveness Reviewed status of clinical and reviewed terms of
Form 20-F and quarterly of 2012 external audit study transparency, ABAC reference
results announcements Reviewed audit & process and information protection
Considered approval assurance work during risks Considered new annual
process for confirming and 2012 and agreed plan for Considered qualifications, report disclosure
recommending that 2013 2013 expertise and Reviewed progress of requirements, including
independence of auditors external and independent ‘new style’ audit reports
Annual Report is fair, Reviewed Corporate
balanced and Integrity Agreement (CIA) Recommended re- ABAC investigations in Received briefing on
understandable quarterly compliance appointment and approval relation to China at a number Group tax and treasury
reports and undertook CIA at AGM for Committee to of meetings arrangements
training agree auditors’ Reviewed annual progress of To reinforce Committee
remuneration global enterprise resource independence, the
Approved 2013 audit plan planning system Committee met both
and audit fee proposal and implementation collectively and separately
set performance with external auditors,
expectations for auditors Head of Audit & Assurance
and Head of Governance,
Considered initial results of Ethics and Assurance
2013 audit without members of
management being present
Reviewed and agreed
pre-approval of budget for
auditors to provide
non-audit services for 2014
In respect of Financial reporting activities, the Committee reviews and recommends for approval all financial results announcements.
In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the annual financial results contained in the 2013 Annual Report, the
Committee reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results. The Committee reviewed
papers prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues and
the judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
90 GSK Annual Report 2013The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out in the following
table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. In addition, the Committee and the external auditors have
discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the
Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 129 to 131.
Significant issues considered by
the Committee in relation to the
financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net debt
preparation of the financial positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group. Following a review of the risk
statements and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern
basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for
returns and rebates (RAR) accruals customer returns and rebates. The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was
£1.2 billion at 31 December 2013 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been
made and concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the
process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 67.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external
recent government investigations in legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates concerning the ongoing government investigations
China to the extent that they can be in China. Management outlined the levels of provision considered necessary in respect of potential adverse
determined litigation outcomes and also those areas, including in respect of the China investigation, where it was not yet
possible to determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount. At 31 December 2013, the provision for
legal matters was £0.6 billion, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Provisions for tax issues The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with
management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required. At 31 December 2013, the Group’s
balance sheet included a tax payable liability of £1.5 billion.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible
assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted management’s judgements on the intangible
assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of £739 million in 2013. See Note
19 to the financial statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Provisions for pension and other The Committee reviewed the significant assumptions adopted by management for the valuations of
post-employment obligations obligations for the Group’s largest pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes in the UK and the US,
together with the resultant net obligation amounts, as calculated by external actuaries. The Group’s net
deficit at 31 December 2013 amounted to £1.9 billion as set out in Note 28 to the financial statements,
‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
Effectiveness of external auditors • adhere to all independence policies, including GSK’s policies,
In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making ISA (UK&I) 220 and SEC requirements
a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors, • deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that
the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance against reflects local risks and materiality
criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, at the
• co-ordinate appropriately with GSK’s Audit & Assurance
beginning of each year’s audit.
function
As part of this process, the Committee considers feedback on the • provide consistency of advice at all levels.
prior year’s external audit gathered through a client satisfaction survey
facilitated by the auditors’ client service review team, which is Audit partner rotation
independent of the engagement team that undertook the audit work. The external auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement
The survey seeks feedback from the financial management team at partner every five years. The previous audit partner stepped down
corporate and business unit level. It covers four key areas – the from his position after the audit of GSK’s financial statements for
robustness of the audit process, the quality of the delivery, the quality 2012 had been concluded.
of the people and the quality of the service. Having reviewed the
After a robust review process by the Committee, together with
feedback and noted any areas of improvement to be implemented
the involvement of the CEO and CFO, to select his replacement,
on the following year’s audit, provided the Committee is satisfied
the Committee approved the appointment of a new audit
with the effectiveness of the external audit process, it will recommend
engagement partner with effect from the financial year
the re-appointment of the auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
commencing on 1 January 2013.
Details of the current criteria for judging the effectiveness of the
external auditors are set out below: Audit firm tendering
• deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit The Committee keeps under review the ongoing legislative proposals
on audit tendering and rotation from the EU and the Competition
• provide accurate, up-to-date knowledge of technical issues on
Commission, and will implement them when they become final. These
a timely basis
proposals have effectively superseded the FRC’s comply-or-explain
• serve as an industry resource, communicating best practice and approach that underpins the UK Code which would otherwise have
industry trends in reporting applied to the company for the first time this year. The FRC plans to
withdraw this tendering provision during 2014.
GSK Annual Report 2013 91Governance & remuneration
Corporate governance
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP have remained in place as auditors Audit/non audit service three year comparison graph (£m)
since the Group’s inception in December 2000 and the audit contract
has not been put out to tender in that period. Their performance has
been reviewed annually by the Committee since that time. As part of its 20
review of the implications of the end of the previous audit partner’s five
19.1
year term, the Committee considered the appropriateness of putting
in place a tender process. This included assessing the FRC’s most 16 17.3 17.3
recent guidance on the subject, the level of change currently underway
inside the Group and improvements to the auditors’ services, including
fee levels proposed by the auditors. The review concluded that a 12
tender was not in the company’s interests at this time and the
Committee consequently approved the appointment of the new audit
partner. However, the Committee agreed that this issue should be 8
reviewed regularly as part of the annual appointment process.
6.4
Non-audit services 5.9 5.8
4
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the
external auditors for the provision of certain services such as legal,
actuarial, internal audit outsourcing, or financial information systems 0
design. Where the external auditors are permitted to provide 2011 2012 2013
non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity Audit and assurance services
and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval All other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and
by the Committee for such services. The total fees for non-audit work treasury-related services
cannot exceed 50% of the audit fee, except in special circumstances
Code of Conduct and reporting lines
where there would be clear advantage in the company’s auditors
undertaking such additional work. These services may include audit, We also have a number of well established policies, including a
audit-related, tax and other services. Pre-approval is detailed as to Code of Conduct, which is available on the governance section of
the particular service or categories of service, and is subject to a our website, and confidential reporting lines for the reporting and
specific budget. All non-audit services over £50,000 are put out to investigation of unlawful conduct. An updated version of the Code
competitive tender with other financial service providers, in line with of Conduct was published in January 2014.
the Group’s procurement process, unless the skills and experience
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
of the external auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit
service under consideration, in which case a request for proposal is One of the key compliance requirements of a group’s financial
submitted by the relevant CET member to the CFO for approval. statements is for the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced
and understandable. The coordination and review of Group-wide
Provision of non-audit services contributions into the Annual Report and Accounts follows a well
established and documented process, which is performed in parallel
There are guidelines which set out the Group’s policy on engaging
with the formal process undertaken by the external auditors.
the external auditors to provide non-audit services, which include:
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by
• ascertaining that the skills and experience of the external auditors
management in the preparation of GSK’s 2013 Annual Report and
make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services
Accounts to ensure that it met the requirements of the UK Code.
• ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity This enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that
and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or GSK’s 2013 Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and
compromised, and understandable.
• ensuring that the fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual
Committee evaluation
audit fee.
The Committee’s annual evaluation was carried out by the Committee
The external auditors and management report regularly to the
Chairman and concluded that the Committee continued to operate
Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance
effectively, with full participation from all members and executive
with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed. The
management attendees and members commented favourably on
Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a case-by-
a very good level of access to the Committee Chairman.
case basis. Fees paid to the company’s auditor and its associates
are set out below. Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s deliberations, it was
statements, ‘Operating profit’. agreed that a heightened focus on time management and attention
on key risk areas during the meetings would assist the Committee’s
Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake
overall effectiveness.
non-audit services.
92 GSK Annual Report 2013Nominations Committee Report During the search process, broad selection criteria are generally used
which focus on achieving a balance between continental European,
British, American and emerging markets experience, and having
individuals with expertise and capabilities developed in various
sectors and specialities.
MWM and Egon Zhender, who specialise in the recruitment of high
calibre Non-Executive Directors, were engaged to ensure that the
widest possible pool of candidates was available to select from.
MWM and Egon Zhender only provide recruitment consultancy
services to the Committee. Dossiers of potential Non-Executive
appointees were considered by the Committee and candidates were
shortlisted for interview on merit and against objective criteria, after
assessing their relevant qualifications and time commitments.
After interviewing suitable candidates, the Committee was pleased to
recommend to the Board Hans Wijers as a potential Non-Executive
Director. He was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2013. The Board
considered that this appointment achieved the aim of appointing a
Sir Christopher Gent candidate who has experience of running global companies.
Nominations Committee Chairman
It is currently intended that Sir Christopher Gent will step down as
Chairman at the end of 2015 and the Committee has made progress
Membership
in the search for his successor.
The membership of the Nominations Committee (the Committee),
together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, Board and committee changes
is set out below:
The Board’s proactive approach to the refreshment of the Board has
resulted in orderly changes in the composition of the Board and its
Attendance at
Committees on the recommendation of the Committee which are set
full meetings
Members Committee member since during 2013 out below.
Sir Christopher Gent Sir Crispin Davis did not stand for re-election at the AGM in May
(Chairman since after nine years’ of service and Sir Robert Wilson will not stand for
1 January 2005) 9 December 2004 5/5 re-election at the AGM in 2014 after ten years’ of service. Given the
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 5/5 number of recent appointments, and that a further long-standing
Sir Crispin Davis* 9 July 2009 2/2 Board member is to step down from the Board by May 2014, Sir
Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 4/5 Deryck Maughan agreed to stand for re-election by shareholders for
up to a further two years before stepping down from the Board at the
Tom de Swaan 1 October 2012 4/5
2016 AGM. The Chairman and Sir Deryck are conducting the search
Sir Robert Wilson 28 March 2008 5/5
for the Chairman’s successor and Sir Deryck will also provide
* Sir Crispin Davis retired from the Board on 1 May 2013. continuity and balance to the composition of the Board, given his
Tom de Swaan and Sir Deryck Maughan were each unable to attend significant knowledge of GSK’s business affairs. Sir Deryck has
one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments. brought his own style to the role of Senior Independent Director since
he succeeded Sir Robert Wilson after the closure of the AGM in May
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: 2013, and the Board has confirmed that he continues to demonstrate
the characteristics of independence in carrying out his role on the
Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required Board.
Chief Executive Officer ✓ Tom de Swaan succeeded Sir Crispin Davis as Chairman of the
Head of Human Resources ✓ Remuneration Committee and Judy Lewent succeeded Tom de
Company Secretary – Secretary to the Swaan as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee on 1 January
Committee ✓ 2013. Tom de Swaan has been a member of the Remuneration
Appropriate external advisers ✓ Committee since May 2009 and continues to be a member of the
Audit & Risk Committee. Judy has been a member of the Audit & Risk
Work of the Committee during 2013 Committee since April 2011.
Dr Stephanie Burns was appointed to the Remuneration Committee
Main responsibilities
with effect from 1 May 2013. Jing Ulrich was appointed to the Audit
The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 86.
& Risk Committee also with effect from 1 May 2013, on the same
date that both Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Sir Robert Wilson
Appointment of new Non-Executive Directors
stepped down from the Audit & Risk Committee. Sir Robert Wilson
During 2013, the Committee’s particular area of focus was the search was appointed as a member of the Corporate Responsibility
for new Non-Executive Directors as the phased refreshment of the Committee with effect from 1 May 2013, and Hans Wijers was
Board has progressed. appointed as a member of the Remuneration and Corporate
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee evaluates Responsibility Committees with effect from 10 October 2013.
the particular skills, knowledge, independence, experience and Lynn Elsenhans was appointed as a member of the Audit & Risk
diversity, including gender, that would benefit and balance the Board Committee with effect from 1 January 2014.
most appropriately for each appointment.
GSK Annual Report 2013 93Governance & remuneration
Corporate governance
Board diversity Corporate Responsibility Committee Report
The Committee is responsible for developing measurable objectives
to support the implementation of the Board’s diversity policy,
including gender, and for monitoring progress towards the
achievement of these objectives. In May 2011, we announced our
aspiration to increase the female representation on the Board to
at least 25% by 2013. We were able to report in the 2011 Annual
Report that encouraging progress had been made towards this
target, with 20% of the Board’s Directors being women at that stage.
As part of the continued refreshment of the Board, both Lynn
Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich were appointed as new Non-Executive
Directors in July 2012, taking the cadre of women on the Board to
33%. We were pleased to have delivered early and exceeded the
target we had set ourselves and have maintained this level of female
representation at Board level throughout 2013.
We also have a good representation of women in management
positions which is illustrated on page 55 as part of the gender
diversity of GSK’s global workforce. We will continue to support Sir Christopher Gent
efforts to further increase the pipeline of women into senior positions Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman
within GSK. We also support the engagement of executive search
firms, such as MWM and Egon Zhender, who have signed up to the Membership
Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice. The membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the
Committee), together with appointment dates and attendance at
Committee evaluation
meetings, is set out below:
The annual evaluation of the Committee’s effectiveness was
undertaken by the Committee Chairman. The responses were shared Attendance at
with the Committee and it was concluded that the Committee full meetings
Members Committee member since during 2013
continued to operate effectively. It was agreed that the process the
Committee used to identify new appointees was much improved. Sir Christopher Gent
(Chairman from
1 January 2005) 9 December 2004 5/5
Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 5/5
Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012 5/5
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 5/5
Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 0/1
Sir Robert Wilson 1 May 2013 3/3
Hans Wijers was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to
prior business commitments.
Other attendees at Committee meetings include:
Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required
Chief Executive Officer ✓
Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines ✓
General Counsel ✓
Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance ✓
Head of Global Communications ✓
Head of Global Corporate Responsibility ✓
Company Secretary ✓
Other Executives ✓
Independent External Corporate
Responsibility Adviser ✓
Independent external corporate responsibility adviser
To augment GSK’s engagement with stakeholder opinion, in May
2013, Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external
adviser to the Committee, a position that she had held previously from
March 2009 to July 2011. Ms Tickell has extensive experience in the
pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems productivity,
sustainability in energy supply and distribution, climate change policy
and short-termism in financial markets.
94 GSK Annual Report 2013She is the co-founder and Director of Meteos, from where she directs Our people Organisational change and employee relations
the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better societal and
Inclusion and diversity
shareholder value. She holds a number of other board and advisory
roles. Leadership, development and approach to
performance management
Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided
independent advice and guidance on corporate and social Employee health, safety and wellbeing
responsibility matters to both the Chairman and the CEO. Volunteering
Main responsibilities Our planet Environmental performance in our supply chain
The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee
are set out on page 86. Committee evaluation
The Committee’s annual evaluation was carried out by the Committee
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from
Chairman and concluded that the Committee continued to operate
members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress in
effectively with full participation from all members and executive
meeting GSK’s Corporate Responsibility commitments, which were
management attendees.
set in 2012, within four areas of focus, is reviewed on an annual basis,
as follows:
Directors’ Report
• Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health needs;
improving access to our products, irrespective of where people For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’
live or their ability to pay; and controlling or eliminating diseases Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2013
affecting the world’s most vulnerable people comprises pages 75 to 95 of the Corporate Governance Report, the
Directors’ Responsibility Statements on pages 128 and 211, and
• Our behaviour: putting the interests of patients and consumers
pages 232 to 248 of Investor Information. As it is entitled to do by
first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by robust
the Companies Act 2006, the Board has chosen to set out in the
policies and strong compliance processes
Strategic Report those matters required to be disclosed in the
• Our people: enabling our people to thrive and develop as Directors’ Report which it considers to be of strategic importance
individuals to deliver our mission to the Company, as follows:
• Our planet: growing our business while reducing our • r isk management objectives and policies (pages 18,19, 73, and 74)
environmental impact across the value chain.
• l ikely future developments of the company (throughout the
The Committee also reviews and approves the Corporate Strategic Report)
Responsibility Report which is available for reference on
• r esearch and development activities (pages 32 to 43)
www.gsk.com/responsibility.
• i nclusion and diversity, (page 55)
Work of the Committee during 2013
• p rovision of information to, and consultation with employees
During 2013, the Committee focused its attention on several issues (pages 54 to 56)
including:
• c arbon emissions (page 57)
CR Focus area Specific topics considered in 2013 The Directors’ Report has been drawn up and presented in
Health for all R&D investment including diseases of the accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and
developing world, eg malaria and open the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall
innovation strategy be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Directors’ Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee
New partnership to address access and child
mortality eg Save the Children partnership of the Board of Directors on 26 February 2014 and signed on its
behalf by:
Our behaviour The US Patient First incentive compensation
program and selling competency model
Further embedding values-based decision
making in the organisation
Human rights impact assessment Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
Conduct and public disclosure of clinical
research, transparency of detailed data behind 26 February 2014
trial results
Replacement, refinement and reduction in use
of animals in research and development
Responsibility in our supply chain – standards,
working practices and diversity
Approach to public policy and interactions
with patient advocacy groups
GSK Annual Report 2013 95Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Chairman’s Annual Statement
– We are removing the business The Committee reviewed the efforts made by
diversification measure from the Sir Andrew and his team in 2013 to improve
Performance Share Plan (PSP) and global public health, increase transparency
from the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan of clinical data and modernise GSK’s
(DABP) matching awards to be made commercial practices and interactions with
from 2014 onwards. Business customers. The ongoing investigation by
diversification remains important, authorities in China was also considered by
but the business mix is now appropriate the Committee. Both Sir Andrew and the
and growth can still be delivered Board are mindful of the impact this issue has
without the additional focus of this had on the reputation of the company. As a
specific measure. The remaining result, the bonuses awarded for 2013 were
performance measures will continue to lower than they otherwise might have been.
have equal weighting. This change has
The executives continue to align their
the effect of increasing the proportion
personal interests with those of shareholders.
of the award based on TSR, adjusted
Sir Andrew has elected again this year to
free cash flow and R&D new product
defer the maximum permitted under the
Dear Shareholder performance from 25% to 33%. company’s DABP and, as at 31 December
– We are extending the time horizons 2013, he held more than twice the value of
As the Chairman of GSK’s Remuneration
by introducing an additional two-year GSK shares required by the company’s share
Committee (the Committee), I am pleased to
holding period for PSP awards for ownership requirements.
present our Directors’ Remuneration Report
Executive Directors to be made from
for 2013, for which we will be seeking your 2013 remuneration for executives and related
2015 onwards.
approval at our AGM on 7 May 2014. In line performance under the annual bonus and
with the new remuneration reporting regime, • The Committee decided that it would long-term incentives (PSP awards and DABP
the Directors’ Remuneration Report is split be appropriate to award our Executive matching awards) is described in our Annual
into two separate reports. The Annual Report Directors salary increases of 2.5% for Report on Remuneration on pages 99 to 101.
on Remuneration will be subject to an 2014, consistent with the average salary
advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM budget for other UK and US employees Agenda for 2014
while the Remuneration Policy Report will be across our business. The Committee held shareholder meetings in
subject to a binding vote. • Furthermore, the Committee decided November 2013, at which we shared updates
on remuneration matters in the last 12
that it would be appropriate for there to
Key decisions and changes in 2013 months and proposals for 2014 onwards.
be no increase in the annual and long-term
The executive remuneration environment incentive opportunities for our Executive During 2014, the Committee will continue to
continued to evolve at pace during 2013. Directors. keep executive remuneration arrangements
The new reporting regulations offered fresh under review. We will also continue our
opportunity to discuss our remuneration Performance and pay in 2013 regular dialogue with shareholders and will
practices and policies with shareholders. The Group generated its best TSR hold our annual meetings with GSK’s largest
We are proud of our track record in listening performance since its formation and investors later in 2014 to listen to their views
to the views of our shareholders and we have £5.2 billion of cash was returned to and feedback.
made a number of decisions during the year shareholders. In determining remuneration The Committee and the company take a keen
relating to executive remuneration, to ensure awards for 2013 it was the Committee’s view interest in external views on remuneration
incentive arrangements remain appropriate that the executive team demonstrated strong matters. In particular, we have consulted
for GSK and are in the long-term interests delivery and successful implementation of the widely on our remuneration policy with
of shareholders. The key changes are Group’s strategic priorities. In particular, it shareholders for their feedback and input.
highlighted below: was an exceptional year for R&D productivity. We responded to issues raised and were
• During 2013, we reviewed the design GSK delivered sales and earnings growth pleased to receive support from the investors
of long-term incentives with the main in line with its guidance and led the industry we consulted.
objectives being simplification and in new product approvals. These new I commend both our reports (Annual Report
responding to concerns previously raised products will strengthen businesses in on Remuneration and Remuneration Policy
by some investors. As a result of this Respiratory, Vaccines, HIV and Oncology. Report) to shareholders for approval at our
review and investor consultation during Importantly, the Committee notes that AGM.
the year, we are changing the way in substantial future opportunities remain for
which our long-term incentives operate: the Group, with a total of 40 new molecular
entities currently in Phase II/III development.
Further action was also taken to streamline Tom de Swaan
and increase the focus of the Group. Remuneration Committee Chairman
Non-core products and other assets were 26 February 2014
divested for proceeds of £2.5 billion and
ongoing, organic structural initiatives
delivered incremental year-on-year savings
of around £400 million.
96 GSK Annual Report 2013Annual report on remuneration
Total remuneration for 2013 (audited)
Value earned
Annual from long-term Total
Salary + Benefits + bonus + incentive + Pension = = remuneration*
awards
* The Committee may, in specific circumstances and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus as it determines appropriate.
The total remuneration for 2013 for each Executive Director is set out in the table below:
Dr Moncef Slaoui,
Sir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans, Chairman,
CEO CFO Global R&D & Vaccines
2013 % of 2012 % of 2013 % of 2012 % of 2013 % of 2012 % of
£000 total £000 total £000 total £000 total $000 total $000 total
Salary 1,059 1,033 699 682 1,180 1,153
Benefits(1) 67 84 65 73 747 447
Total fixed pay 1,126 16% 1,117 25% 764 23% 755 61% 1,927 23% 1,600 24%
Pay for performance
Annual bonus – including the
amount deferred 1,875 905 886 343 1,973 1,404
Value earned from LTI awards: (2)
Matching awards under Deferred
Annual Bonus Plan (3) 249 125 n/a n/a 485 n/a
Performance Share Plan 3,250 1,780 1,502 n/a 3,763 1,690
Total value earned from LTI awards 3,499 1,905 1,502 n/a 4,248 1,690
Total pay for performance 5,374 74% 2,810 64% 2,388 73% 343 28% 6,221 74% 3,094 47%
Pension (4) 707 10% 459 11% 140 4% 136 11% 266 3% 1,931 29%
Total remuneration (5) 7,207 4,386 3,292 1,234 8,414 6,625
Notes:
(1) Certain expenses incurred in the normal course of business are considered to be taxable benefits and as such the table above now includes these figures
for 2012 (restated) and 2013. Further details are provided on page 98.
(2) A n analysis of the value of LTIs earned by Sir Andrew Witty, Simon Dingemans and Dr Moncef Slaoui is set out on pages 112 to 114.
(3 The performance period for Simon Dingemans’ first award under the DABP ends on 31 December 2014. The earliest period for which remuneration will
be recorded under the DABP for Simon Dingemans will therefore be the year ending 31 December 2014.
(4) Full details of the pensions accrued to date for the Executive Directors in receipt of a pension from GSK are given on page 105.
(5) Following due consideration by the Committee, there has been no reduction of outstanding awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2013 in respect
of any of the Executive Directors.
The following sections provide details of each element of ‘Total remuneration’ including how we intend to implement the policy for 2014.
GSK Annual Report 2013 97Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Comparator groups for pay and performance Salary
The Committee uses two primary pay comparator groups when For 2014, the average salary increase budget for employees other
considering executive pay: than Executive Directors will be approximately 2.5% in both the UK
and USA.
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical
comparator group† comparator group The Committee decided to give the Executive Directors salary
Anglo American France Sanofi increases in line with those increases. Sir Andrew Witty, Simon
AstraZeneca Switzerland Novartis Dingemans and Dr Moncef Slaoui each received a
BG Group Roche Holdings base salary increase of 2.5%.
BHP Billiton UK AstraZeneca
The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive Directors
BP USA AbbVie*
over the last two years and for 2014.
British American Tobacco Amgen*
Diageo Bristol-Myers Squibb Base salary
%
Reckitt Benckiser Eli Lilly
change 2014 2013 2012
Rio Tinto Johnson & Johnson Sir Andrew Witty 2.5% £1,087,300 £1,060,800 £1,040,000
Royal Dutch Shell Merck & Co
Simon Dingemans 2.5% £717,700 £700,150 £686,400
SAB Miller Pfizer
Dr Moncef Slaoui 2.5% $1,211,800 $1,182,200 $1,159,000
Tesco
Unilever Benefits (audited)
Vodafone
The following table shows a breakdown of the grossed up cash value
* Amgen and AbbVie are included for remuneration benchmarking, but of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in 2013 and 2012.
are not included in the TSR comparator group.
† From 2013 onwards financial services companies have been removed Sir Andrew Simon Dr Moncef
Witty Dingemans Slaoui
as new regulatory regimes on remuneration applied in that sector make
their pay structures less comparable. SAB Miller has been added to the 2013 benefits £ £ $
group.
Employee benefits(1) 17,338 21,692 156,529
The global pharmaceutical comparator group is also used as the basis
Travel(2) 35,960 29,939 82,163
for the TSR comparator group which features in our long-term
incentive awards. International assignment(3) – – 501,229
Other benefits(4) 13,483 13,483 6,652
The primary pay comparator group for each of the Executive Directors Total 2013 benefits 66,781 65,114 746,573
is shown in the table below:
2012 benefits (restated) £ £ $
Primary pay comparator group
UK Global Employee benefits(1) 20,198 24,636 177,443
Director cross-industry pharmaceutical Travel(2) 51,835 34,571 121,739
Sir Andrew Witty ✓ International assignment(3) – – 140,690
Simon Dingemans ✓ Other benefits(4) 12,021 13,904 6,930
Dr Moncef Slaoui ✓ Total 2012 benefits 84,054 73,111 446,802
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee also (1) Employee benefits include healthcare, car allowance, personal financial
references pay for a group of leading European companies whose advice and life assurance/death in service.
selection is based on their size and complexity. (2) Travel expenses include car travel, family, spouse and partner costs
associated with accompanying the director on GSK business, which
Summary of total package competitive positioning for the CEO
are deemed to be taxable benefits on the individual.
Total remuneration benchmarking (£m) (3) Dr Moncef Slaoui was seconded to the UK in November 2010 in order
to enable him to be closer to the Vaccines business as he assumed
operational responsibility for that part of the Group. The secondment
12 ended on 31 December 2013. In line with other senior GSK expatriates,
he received appropriate assignment expenses, including accommodation,
location allowance, relocation specific financial advice and tax equalisation.
(4) Other benefits comprise expenses incurred in the ordinary course of
10
business, which are deemed to be taxable benefits on the individual and as
such have been included in the table above for 2012 (restated) and 2013.
No significant changes to the provision of benefits are proposed for
8
2014. For further details please refer to page 117 of the Policy
Report.
6
4
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical European cross-industry
group group group
Lower quartile to median Median to upper quartile Current position
Benchmarking includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on the
Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology.
98 GSK Annual Report 2013Pay for performance (audited)
Annual bonus
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal review of performance against stretching financial targets. This outcome
is then adjusted to reflect individual performance by applying an individual performance multiplier.
For the financial measures, the bonus threshold is 90% of target, with the maximum being payable for achievement of 110% of target.
The bonus threshold of 90% reflects the stretching nature of the bonus targets.
2013 performance against targets
For 2013, the annual bonus was based on the following performance measures. As the actual targets are linked to the company’s financial
and strategic plan, the Committee believes that the targets remain commercially sensitive. The 2013 targets are therefore not disclosed.
Financial performance Personal performance
Sir Andrew Witty
75% on core Group operating profit 25% on core Group profit
Simon Dingemans Individual objectives
before interest and tax
Dr Moncef Slaoui 50% on R&D and 25% on Vaccines performance
For further details see page 118 of the Policy Report.
Financial Core Group operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax
performance The company’s performance in 2013, both in terms of core Group operating profit and core Group profit before interest
and tax, represented further strong delivery for the Group despite some unexpected challenges and reflected the
improving balance of our sales base. This reflects improvements in our US and European businesses, as well as
effective cost control and financial efficiencies.
R&D and Vaccines performance
Targets for the year around pipeline growth and value were exceeded. This reflects the most productive period of R&D
output in the company’s history. Six major new products were approved (Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Tafinlar, Mekinist
and Tivicay as well as a new injectable quadrivalent flu vaccine launched in the US) with five additional regulatory filings
completed. The company’s pipeline remains extensive with 40 new molecular entities (NMEs) in Phase II/III clinical
development. GSK remains on track to deliver its target long-term rate of return on R&D spend of 14%. Targets for the
year around Vaccines performance were also exceeded reflecting strong sales, in particular, of Infanrix/Pediarix, Fluarix/
FluLaval and Boostrix.
The table below sets out the matters the Committee considered in respect of the individual objectives set for each Executive Director.
Personal performance
Sir Andrew Witty Sir Andrew continued to demonstrate strong leadership of GSK in what remains a challenging operating environment for
healthcare. For 2013, Sir Andrew’s remuneration reflects strong delivery of the Group’s strategy across all areas of the
business and the subsequent realisation of returns for shareholders.
GSK delivered sales and earnings growth in 2013, with core EPS of 112.2p up 4% on 2012 (at CER) and in line with
market guidance. Sales growth was generated from multiple businesses and geographies reflecting successful
implementation of the Group’s strategy to source growth more broadly.
2013 was a year of exceptional R&D productivity. GSK led the industry in new product delivery with six major products
approved and five additional regulatory filings completed. This productivity was set against a backdrop of continued
improvement in the estimated rate of return for R&D, now at 13%. The new product launches will strengthen businesses
in Respiratory, Vaccines, HIV and Oncology. The Group’s pipeline opportunity also remains substantial with a total of 40
NMEs currently in Phase II/III development and with Phase III starts planned for ten potential new products in
2014/2015.
Under Sir Andrew’s leadership, the Group generated its best TSR performance, in 2013, since the formation of GSK.
£5.2 billion of cash was returned to shareholders with a full-year dividend of 78 pence up 5% on 2012 and share
repurchases of £1.5 billion.
Sir Andrew continued to strengthen and focus GSK’s core business areas. In 2013, the Group divested non-core
products and other assets for proceeds of £2.5 billion. GSK also increased its shareholding in its Indian Consumer
subsidiary. Ongoing organic structural initiatives delivered incremental year-on-year savings of around £400 million
and new efficiencies resulting from the Group’s strategic priority to simplify its business are increasingly evident in
manufacturing, supply chain and core business services.
Sir Andrew continued to adopt industry-leading positions on multiple corporate responsibility issues in 2013. During the
year, GSK was widely acknowledged to have taken further innovative steps to improve global public health in developing
countries, to increase access and transparency of its clinical data and to modernise its commercial practices and
interactions with customers. At Sir Andrew’s request, the impact of the ongoing investigation by Chinese authorities into the
Group’s subsidiary business in China was also considered by the Board in their evaluation of his performance for 2013.
GSK Annual Report 2013 99Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
2013 performance against targets continued
Personal performance
Simon Dingemans GSK delivered sales and earnings growth in 2013, with core EPS of 112.2p up 4% on 2012 (at CER) and in line with
market guidance. Simon Dingemans continued to drive operating and financial efficiencies, with year-on-year cost
savings of around £400 million contributing to overall 2013 performance and increased core earnings per share on a
constant currency basis.
Simon drove the delivery of £4.8 billion in adjusted free cash flow in 2013 which, along with £2.5 billion realised from
divestments, gives the company the flexibility it needs to protect its credit profile, fund organic investment and
restructuring programmes and to meet its commitment to a growing dividend, further share buy-backs and bolt-on
acquisitions. He also continued to achieve a reduction in our effective core tax rate to 23% (2012: 24.4%).
Dr Moncef Slaoui Dr Moncef Slaoui delivered a year of exceptional performance for R&D in terms of approvals, filings and pipeline as
detailed above. Under his leadership, the Vaccines business also delivered solid sales growth despite the adverse
impact on Cervarix sales resulting from the suspension of the recommendations for the use of HPV vaccines in Japan.
He has successfully established the new integrated way of working between R&D and other parts of the business to
create a strong, new product launch capability.
The following table shows actual bonuses earned compared to opportunity for 2013 and 2012.
Opportunity Level achieved
Bonus paid
(% of salary) (% of salary)
2013 2012
On target Maximum 2013 2012 £/$000 £/$000
Sir Andrew Witty 125% 200% 177% 87% £1,875 £905
Simon Dingemans 80% 180% 127% 50% £886 £343
Dr Moncef Slaoui 85% 200% 167% 121% $1,973 $1,404
2014 operation of annual bonus plan
No changes are proposed to the operation of the annual bonus plan for 2014. Inevitably, targets linked directly to the financial and strategic
plan are commercially sensitive and the Committee does not consider it appropriate to disclose annual bonus targets during the year.
However, details of performance achieved will be disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report.
Long-term incentive plans (audited)
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and matching awards Performance Share Plan
The levels of participation in 2012 and 2013 for the Executive The table below shows Performance Share Plan (PSP) award levels
Directors are shown in the table below, together with the maximum for 2013 and 2014 for each Executive Director:
matching awards granted in 2014 in respect of the deferrals of the
2013 bonuses.
% of total bonus 2014 2013
2014 deferred into Award level Award level
Matching shares or ADS 2014 as % of as % of
award 2013 2012 Award base salary base salary
Sir Andrew Witty 57,060 shares 50% 50% Sir Andrew Witty* 397,066 shares 600% 600%
Simon Dingemans 18,876 shares 35% 50% Simon Dingemans 174,729 shares 400% 400%
Dr Moncef Slaoui 18,214 ADS 50% 50% Dr Moncef Slaoui 111,851 ADS 500% 500%
Vesting of matching awards with a performance period ending 31 * 2 5% of Sir Andrew Witty’s 2013 and 2014 PSP awards are subject to
December 2013 is shown on pages 112 and 113. a further two-year vesting period (five years in total).
Performance conditions for matching awards made in 2014 under PSP and DABP matching awards are both subject to performance and
the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) are the same as for the continued employment.
Performance Share Plan and are described on page 103.
100 GSK Annual Report 20132011 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2013 (audited)
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors in 2011. The performance
achieved in the full three years to 31 December 2013 and the actual vesting levels are set out in the table below. The Committee previously
provided estimates of vesting for 2011 awards in GSK’s 2011 and 2012 Annual Reports. Those estimates were based on performance
achieved at that time and the following reflects performance achieved over the course of the whole performance period. No discretion was
exercised in determining these vesting levels.
Due to commercial sensitivities, the targets for R&D new products and business diversification were not disclosed at the time of grant and
the Committee committed to disclosing them at the time of vesting. These targets are shown in the table below.
Performance Vesting
measures
and relative % of
weighting Performance targets and performance achieved maximum % of award
Business The business diversification measure was based on an aggregate three-year revenue 42% 10.5%
diversification target for Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, Dermatology and Emerging Markets, Asia
performance Pacific and Japan. The vesting schedule is shown below. Aggregate sales for the period
(25%) were £44.05 billion.
Target % vesting*
Maximum £48.59 billion 100%
£47.17 billion 75%
£44.81 billion 50%
Threshold £42.46 billion 25%
R&D new product The R&D new product performance measure was based on an aggregate three-year 65% 16.3%
performance revenue target for New Product sales. New Products are defined as products launched
(25%) in the performance period and the two preceding years. Therefore products launched in
the years 2009 to 2013 were included. The vesting schedule is shown below. Aggregate
sales for the period were £4.18 billion.
Target % vesting*
Maximum £4.69 billion 100%
£4.26 billion 75%
£4.05 billion 50%
Threshold £3.84 billion 25%
Adjusted free Adjusted free cash flow (AFCF) for the three years was £16.80 billion which, in line with 52% 13.0%
cash flow the Committee’s agreed principles, included adjustments for a number of material
performance distorting items, including legal settlements, exchange rate movements and special
(25%) pension contributions.
The AFCF vesting schedule was disclosed at the time of grant. 25% (threshold) of the
award vests for achieving AFCF of £16.15 billion, 50% for achieving £16.65 billion, 75%
for achieving £18.32 billion and 100% (maximum) for achieving £19.15 billion, with
straight-line vesting between these points.
Relative TSR GSK’s TSR rank position was 7th in the comparator group of ten pharmaceutical 0% 0%
performance companies (GSK and nine other companies). The vesting schedule and comparator
(25%) group is as set out for the 2014 awards on page 103.
Total vesting in respect of 2013 39.8%
* Straight-line vesting applies between these points.
2010 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2013 (audited)
The awards granted to Executive Directors in 2010 were based in part on performance over three years (70%) and in part on performance over four
years (30%). The portion of awards measured over the four years to 31 December 2013 lapsed in full, as GSK’s TSR rank position was 9th in a
comparator group of ten pharmaceutical companies (GSK and nine other companies).
GSK Annual Report 2013 101Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Update on performance of ongoing awards
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors in 2012 and 2013.
The following tables provide an estimate of vesting taking into account performance to date. Actual vesting levels will only be determined
based on performance over the full three-year performance periods. The indications below should therefore not be regarded as predictions
of the final vesting levels.
2012 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2014
Performance
measures
and relative
weighting Performance update
Business Business diversification performance for the 2012 awards measures aggregate three-year sales across Vaccines, Dermatology,
diversification Consumer Healthcare and Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan. Threshold performance results in 25% vesting and maximum
performance performance (114% of threshold) results in 100% vesting.
(25%)
Based on aggregate sales for 2012 and 2013, and based on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be
between 25% and 50% of the maximum for this element.
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new products launched in the three-year
performance performance period and preceding two years, i.e. 2010-2014. Threshold performance results in 25% vesting and maximum
(25%) performance (122% of threshold) results in 100% vesting.
Based on aggregate sales of new products for 2012 and 2013, and based on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently
estimated to be around threshold.
Adjusted free The adjusted free cash flow (AFCF) vesting schedule for the 2012 awards was disclosed at the time of grant.
cash flow
25% (threshold) of the award vests for achieving AFCF of £17.30 billion, 50% for achieving £17.84 billion, 75% for achieving
performance
£19.62 billion and 100% (maximum) for achieving £20.52 billion, with straight-line vesting between these points.
(25%)
Based on adjusted free cash flow for 2012 and 2013, and based on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated
to be below threshold.
Relative TSR For the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2013, GSK’s TSR rank position was 9th in the comparator group of ten
performance pharmaceutical companies (GSK and nine other companies). The vesting schedule and comparator group are as set out for the
(25%) 2014 awards on page 103. If the ranking position remains at this level, vesting would be below threshold.
Current estimate of potential total vesting for 2012 awards Less than 25% vesting
2013 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2015 (audited)
Performance
measures
and relative
weighting Performance update
Business Business diversification performance for the 2013 awards measures aggregate three-year sales across Vaccines, Consumer
diversification Healthcare and Emerging Markets, Asia Pacific and Japan. Threshold performance results in 25% vesting and maximum performance
performance (114% of threshold) results in 100% vesting.
(25%)
There were good sales for the year for these business areas. Based on aggregate sales for the year, and based on performance
measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be between 50% and 75% of the maximum for this element.
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new products launched in the three-year
performance performance period and preceding two years, i.e. 2011-2015. Threshold performance results in 25% vesting and maximum
(25%) performance (122% of threshold) results in 100% vesting.
There were strong sales of new products in the year. GSK is also on track to deliver its target long-term rate of return on R&D spend
of 14% (13% for 2013). Based on aggregate sales of new products for the year, and based on performance measure definitions,
vesting is currently estimated to be between 75% and 100%.
Adjusted free The adjusted free cash flow (AFCF) vesting schedule for the 2013 awards was disclosed at the time of grant.
cash flow
25% (threshold) of the award vests for achieving AFCF of £14.06 billion, 50% for achieving £14.49 billion, 75% for achieving
performance
£15.94 billion and 100% (maximum) for achieving £16.66 billion, with straight-line vesting between these points.
(25%)
Based on adjusted free cash flow for the year, and on performance measure definitions, vesting is currently estimated to be
between 50% and 75%.
Relative TSR For the period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013, GSK’s TSR rank position was 9th in the comparator group of ten
performance pharmaceutical companies (GSK and nine other companies). The vesting schedule and comparator group are as set out for the
(25%) 2014 awards on page 103. If the ranking position remains at this level, vesting would be below threshold.
Current estimate of potential total vesting for 2013 awards Between 50% and 75% vesting
102 GSK Annual Report 2013Performance targets for 2014 awards
Inevitably, measures linked directly to strategy are commercially sensitive. In particular, the Committee does not consider it appropriate to
disclose the targets for R&D new product performance at grant, as it may result in competitive harm. However, the targets will be disclosed
in full in GSK’s 2016 Annual Report at the end of the performance period, together with details of the extent to which they have been met.
The Committee will provide updates on estimated vesting against the targets during the performance period. The 2014 performance targets
and vesting schedules are set out in the table below.
2014 awards with a performance period ending 31 December 2016
Performance
measures
and relative
weighting Link to strategy Vesting schedule
R&D new Recognises importance of R&D to future business Performance
product growth. (% of threshold) % vesting
performance Revenue target based on new product sales to Maximum 122% 100%
(1/3rd) incentivise better R&D performance. New products Threshold 100% 25%
defined as products launched in the performance
period and the two preceding years. Therefore, for the
2014-2016 performance period, products launched in
the years 2012-2016 will be included in the
measurement.
Aggregate three-year revenue target for 2014 awards
for new product sales should reflect growth on historic
performance of new product sales.
Adjusted free Recognises importance of effective working capital and Performance
cash flow cash management. target % vesting
performance Maximum £16.22 billion 100%
(1/3rd) £15.51 billion 75%
£14.10 billion 50%
Threshold £13.68 billion 25%
Straight-line vesting between these points.
Relative TSR Focuses on delivery of value to shareholders.
TSR ranking
performance Relative TSR using a comparator group comprising
within comparator
(1/3rd) GSK and nine other global pharmaceutical companies. group1 % vesting
Relative TSR is measured over three years, using a Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
twelve-month averaging period. TSR is measured in
4th 72%
local currency.
Threshold2 5th 44%
Median 30%
6th to 10th 0%
1 T SR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly,
GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer,
Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
2 T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 30% vesting for median
performance. In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls
between two companies. Threshold vesting is therefore for achieving
above median performance.
GSK Annual Report 2013 103Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Historical vesting for GSK’s LTIs
The following table shows historical vesting levels under the company’s long-term incentive plans (Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching
awards, Performance Share Plan and Share Option Plan) in respect of awards made to executives since 2004.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Performance Share Plan Share Option Plan
Vesting Vesting Vesting
Vesting under under under Vesting
Total under adjusted free R&D new business Total under
Year of vesting TSR cash flow product diversification vesting EPS
grant Performance period % % % % % % %
2004 2005–2007 n/a 38.5 n/a n/a n/a 38.5 100
2006 2006–2008 n/a 0 n/a n/a n/a 0 50.7
2007 2007–2009 n/a 35 n/a n/a n/a 35 0
2008 2008–2010 n/a 35 n/a n/a n/a 35 0
2009 2009–2011/12 n/a 9 40 n/a n/a 49 0
2010 2010–2012/13 30 9 16 n/a n/a 25 n/a
2011 2011–2013 40 0 13 16 11 40 n/a
For the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, the 2010 awards were subject wholly to TSR performance and 2011 awards were subject to the same
performance measures as PSP awards.
Other all-employee share plans Payments to past directors during 2013 (audited)
The Executive Directors participate in various all-employee share Julian Heslop retired on 31 March 2011. The outstanding balance of
plans, including ShareSave and ShareReward. his 2010 PSP award with a performance period ending 31 December
2013 lapsed in full as the performance criteria were not met.
The ShareSave Plan is a UK HM Revenue & Customs approved plan
open to all UK employees. Participants may save up to £250 a month
Payments for loss of office during 2013 (audited)
from their net salaries for a fixed term of three years and at the end of
There have been no payments for loss of office to Executive Directors
the savings period they have the option to buy GSK shares at a
during 2013.
discount of up to 20% of the market price set at the launch of each
savings contract. Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans make
Share ownership requirements
monthly contributions into the ShareSave Plan.
To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders,
The ShareReward Plan is a UK HM Revenue & Customs approved executives are required to build up and maintain significant holdings
plan open to all UK employees on the same terms. Participants of shares in GSK over time.
contribute up to £125 a month from their gross salaries to purchase
Executives are required to continue to satisfy these shareholding
GSK shares and the company matches the number of GSK shares
requirements for a minimum of 12 months following retirement from
bought each month under this arrangement. Sir Andrew Witty and
the company.
Simon Dingemans each contribute £125 a month to buy shares
under the ShareReward Plan. Current share ownership requirements (SOR) are set out in the table
below:
Dilution limits
All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution limits Share ownership requirements
consistent with the guidelines provided by the Association of British CEO 4x base salary
Insurers. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten year period for all Other Executive Directors 3x base salary
plans and 5% in any rolling ten year period for executive share plans. Other CET members 2x base salary
Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last ten years
up to 31 December 2013 is as follows: Shareholdings for the purpose of SOR as at 21 February 2014 and
achievement of SOR, based upon an average share price for the 90
working days preceding that date, were as set out in the following
All GSK employee share plans Executive share plans
table (audited):
Holdings for SOR
10 purposes as at
10%
Increase in Achievement
8 21 February 31 December shareholding of SOR
2014 2012 % %
6 Sir Andrew Witty 734,002 449,987 63% 272%
Simon Dingemans 152,460 70,362 117% 114%
4 5% Dr Moncef Slaoui 498,823 296,584 68% 361%
3.59%
3.31% Any outstanding share awards still subject to performance criteria or
2
continued employment are not included in the shareholdings for the
0 purpose of SOR.
Actual Limit Actual Limit
104 GSK Annual Report 2013Pension (audited)
The arrangements for the current Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
Pension arrangements
Sir Andrew Witty Sir Andrew Witty is a member of the Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit pension plan with an accrual rate of 1/30th of final pensionable
salary. This plan has been closed to new entrants since 2001. The section of the plan that Sir Andrew is a member of provides for a
normal retirement age of 60 and a maximum pension value of 2/3rds of pensionable salary. From 1 April 2013, pensionable earnings
increases are limited to 2% per annum for all members, including Sir Andrew.
Simon Dingemans Simon Dingemans is not a member of any GSK pension plan for pension contributions and instead receives a cash payment in lieu
of pension of 20% of base salary in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
Simon Dingemans receives death in service and ill-health insurance that is provided as part of the pension plan. This has been
included in employee benefits on page 98.
Dr Moncef Slaoui Dr Moncef Slaoui is a member of the US Cash Balance Pension Plan and the Supplemental Cash Balance Pension Plan which
provides for an Executive Pension Credit. GSK makes annual contributions to Dr Moncef Slaoui’s pension plans of 38% of his base
salary. The plans provide a cash sum at retirement and the fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance, based on the
30 year US Treasury bond rate. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases.
Dr Moncef Slaoui was an active member of the Belgium Fortis Plan until 31 May 2006 and has been a deferred member since.
This plan is a defined benefit plan with a lump sum payable at a normal retirement age of 60. There are no further company
contributions to this plan.
Dr Moncef Slaoui is also a member of the GSK 401(k) savings scheme open to all US employees and the Executive Supplemental
Savings Plan (ESSP), a savings scheme open to executives to accrue benefits above US government limits imposed on the GSK
401(k) plan. Contributions to both plans are invested in a range of funds. The combined contribution rate under the plans is up to 6%
(2% core contributions plus a match of up to 4%) of total base salary and bonus, less any bonus deferred under the Deferred Annual
Bonus Plan.
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values set out on page 97.
Sir Andrew Witty Simon Dingemans Dr Moncef Slaoui
2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012
Pension remuneration values £000 £000 £000 £000 000 000
UK defined benefit 739 490 – – – –
US defined benefit – – – – – $1,658
Belgian defined benefit – – – – €101 €114
Employer cash contributions – – 140 136 $127 $122
Member contributions (32) (31) – – – –
Total pension remuneration value 707 459 140 136 $266 $1,931
a) T he pension remuneration figures have been calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in the Remuneration Regulations. In
calculating the defined benefit pension values for 2013, the difference between the accrued pension as at 31.12.2013 and the accrued pension as
at 31.12.2012 increased by inflation (2.2% for UK defined benefit, 1.2% for Belgium defined benefit), has been multiplied by 20. Where this results
in a negative value, this has been deemed to be zero. In calculating total values, amounts have been translated from Euros into US dollars using an
exchange rate of 1.38 for 2013 and 1.32 for 2012.
b) For Sir Andrew, further details regarding the 2013 pension values are set out in the table below.
Accrued pension as at Accrued pension as at Pension remuneration
Sir Andrew Witty
31.12.2013 (£ p.a.) 31.12.2012 (£ p.a.) value for 2013 (£000)
UK – Funded 69,251 67,496 5
UK – Unfunded 562,855 514,841 734
Total 632,106 582,337 739
S ir Andrew joined GSK predecessor companies in 1991 and progressed through roles of increasing seniority within GSK until he was appointed
CEO in May 2008. During this time, he has built up pensionable service through the different tiers of the Glaxo Wellcome Pension Plan. His
current pension entitlement is a product of his service and progression within GSK.
c) For Dr Moncef Slaoui, further details regarding the 2013 pension values are set out in the table below.
Accrued pension as at Accrued pension as at Pension remuneration
Dr Moncef Slaoui
31.12.2013 (p.a.) 31.12.2012 (p.a.) value for 2013 (000)
US – Funded $12,200 $13,116 –
US – Unfunded $325,080 $337,217 –
Belgium – Funded €84,000 €78,000 €101
US – 401(k) & ESSP – – $127
Total – – $266
D r Moncef Slaoui joined GSK predecessor companies in 1988 and he progressed through a number of senior roles within GSK until he was
appointed Chairman, Research & Development in June 2006. During this time, he has built up pensionable service in the Belgium Fortis Plan
and US Cash Balance Plan and Supplemental Pension Plan. Annual employer cash contributions were made to the 401(k) Plan and Executive
Supplemental Savings Plan. His current pension entitlement is a product of his service and progression within GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2013 105Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Performance graph and table Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
The following graph sets out the performance of the company relative Base salary Benefits Annual bonus
to the FTSE 100 index, and to the pharmaceutical performance
CEO Sir Andrew Witty 2.5% (21)% 107%
comparator group for the five year period to 31 December 2013.
UK employees 2.7% 0% 36%
The graph has been prepared in accordance with the Remuneration
Regulations and is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards This reflects salary earned in, benefits received in and annual bonus
granted under any of the company’s incentive plans. These indices earned in respect of 2013 compared to 2012. For the wider UK
were selected for comparison purposes as they reflect both the index employee population, the salary increase includes the annual salary
of which GSK is a constituent and the industry in which it operates. review as well as any additional changes in the year, eg on promotion.
The 0% increase for benefits for UK employees reflects there being
200 no change to benefits policies or levels during the year. It does not
reflect any changes to the level of benefits an individual may have
180 received as a result of a change in role, eg promotion. The UK
population was considered to be the most relevant comparison as
160 it most closely reflects the economic environment encountered by
the CEO.
140
Relative importance of pay
120 The following table sets out the percentage changes in the Group’s
dividends to shareholders, share buy-back and total employee pay.
100
2013 2012
£m £m % change
80
Total employee pay 7,591 6,935 9.5%
60 Dividends 3,680 3,814 (3.5)%
31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/11 31/12/ 12 3 1/12/1 3 Share buy-back 1,504 2,493 (39.7)%
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return The figures in the table above are as set out on pages 135 and 149.
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Total Return Index* The 2012 dividend figure includes the supplemental dividend of
FTSE 100 Total Return Index £248 million paid in 2012. Dividends declared in respect of 2013
* This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly,
were £3,754 million (2012: £3,614 million), i.e. an increase of 3.9%.
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi. The timing of share buy-backs is influenced by market conditions
and price.
Remuneration table
Total employee pay is for all Group employees globally.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
External appointments for Executive Directors
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
CEO
The Board encourages Executive Directors to hold one external
(Sir Andrew Witty)
directorship once they have become established in their role, to
CEO single figure of
broaden their experience and development, and help increase the
remuneration 7,207 4,386 6,807 4,562 5,790
pool of candidates for Non-Executive Directors. Any outside
Annual bonus award(1)
appointments are considered by the Nominations Committee to
(% of maximum) 88% 44% 100% 59% 100%
ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest and are then
Vesting of LTI awards
approved by the Chairman on behalf of the Board. It is the company’s
(% of maximum) (6) 31% (5) 24% (4) 70% (3) 35% (2) 35%
policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be kept
(1) 2009 and 2010 bonus amounts include amounts paid under the by the individual Executive Director.
Operational Efficiency Bonus in place for those years. The overall
During 2013, Dr Moncef Slaoui received $8,000 in relation to
maximum receivable was subject to a limit of 200% of base salary.
his membership of the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute Scientific
(2) I n respect of the 2007 PSP award. Sir Andrew also had an Advisory Committee. There are no other external appointments for
outstanding award over 195,500 share options, granted in 2007 which he receives any remuneration. During 2013, Sir Andrew Witty
which lapsed in full. These have not been included in the total vesting
and Simon Dingemans did not hold any external appointments for
percentage due to the distorting effect of aggregating conditional
which they were remunerated.
shares and share options.
(3) In respect of the 2008 PSP award. Sir Andrew also had an
outstanding award over 525,000 share options, granted in 2008
which lapsed in full. These have not been included in the total vesting
percentage due to the distorting effect of aggregating conditional
shares and share options.
(4) In respect of the three-year element of the 2009 PSP award.
(5) In respect of the four-year element of the 2009 PSP award, the
three-year element of the 2010 PSP award and the 2010 DABP
matching award.
(6) I n respect of the four-year element of the 2010 PSP award, the 2011
PSP award and the 2011 DABP matching award.
106 GSK Annual Report 2013The Remuneration Committee Adviser to the Committee
The Committee has access to external advice as required. During the
Role of the Committee year, the Committee carried out a formal review of the independent
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration advisers to the Committee. As a result of this review, the Committee
policy so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its decided to reappoint Deloitte LLP to provide it with independent advice
executives. The remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to on executive remuneration. The Committee Chairman agrees the
ensure that it is consistent with the company’s scale and scope protocols under which Deloitte provides advice and the Committee
of operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans is satisfied that the advice they have received from Deloitte has been
and helps drive the creation of shareholder value. objective and independent.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and,
Terms of reference
as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The code of conduct
company’s website. The terms of reference, which are reviewed can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
at least annually, were last revised in December 2013 in light of
Deloitte provided independent commentary on matters under
best practice and the new remuneration regulations.
consideration by the Committee and provided updates on market
practice and legislative requirements. Deloitte’s fees for advice
Governance
provided to the Committee in 2013 were £328,000. Fees were
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to be
charged on a time and materials basis. Deloitte LLP also provided
independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the UK
other consulting, tax and assurance services to GSK during the year,
Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of Sir Christopher
however, the Committee are satisfied that this does not compromise
Gent, Chairman of the company, who was considered independent
the independence of the advice they have received from Deloitte.
on appointment.
Towers Watson provided additional market data to the Committee.
The Committee met six times in scheduled meetings during 2013,
with each member attending as follows:
Commitment to shareholders
Attendance The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and
Committee at full holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss and
member meetings
take feedback on its remuneration policy. In particular, the Committee
Members since during 2013
discusses any significant changes to the policy or the measures used
Tom de Swaan 20 May 2009 6/6
to assess performance.
(Chairman from 1 January 2013)
Dr Stephanie Burns 1 May 2013 3/3 Shareholder votes on remuneration matters
Sir Christopher Gent 1 January 2007 6/6
Votes
Judy Lewent 1 January 2013 6/6
Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
Sir Deryck Maughan 1 July 2012 5/6 AGM cast (Billion) for (%) against (%) (Million)
Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 0/1 2013 3.8 94.6 5.4 34.4
Sir Deryck Maughan and Hans Wijers were each unable to attend
one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee met in full
on three occasions to further consider the remuneration matters under
review in the year including the review of long-term incentive design
and the 2013 Remuneration Report under the new regulations. The
Committee also met on a quorate basis on two occasions to approve
the formal grant of long-term incentive awards to employees below
the Corporate Executive Team.
Committee meetings usually include a closed session, during
which only members of the Committee are present. Other individuals
may also be invited to attend Committee meetings during the year.
Executives and other Committee attendees are not involved in any
decisions, and are not present at any discussions regarding their
own remuneration.
Other attendees at Committee meetings include:
Regular Attends
Attendee attendee as required
CEO ✓
CFO ✓
Head of Human Resources ✓
Head of Reward ✓
Secretary to the Committee ✓
Committee Adviser – Deloitte LLP ✓
GSK Annual Report 2013 107Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Principal activities and matters addressed during 2013
The Committee’s principal activities and matters addressed during 2013 are set out below:
Remuneration
Month Overall Incentives Governance and other matters
January Approve executives’ 2013 remuneration, Review and approve executives’ 2012 Review draft 2012 Remuneration Report
including salaries of CEO, CFO and bonuses
Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines Set 2013 bonus objectives
Remuneration environment update
February Review LTI performance outcomes and Approve 2012 Remuneration Report
approve vesting of outstanding 2009 LTI
awards (2009-2012) and 2010 LTI
awards (2010-2012)
Approve LTI measures and targets for
2013 awards (2013-2015), and grant
awards to Executive Directors and below
March Remuneration environment update, Review shareholder feedback
including consideration of new reporting Set Committee’s agenda for 2013
regulations
July Update on new remuneration reporting Review of long-term incentive design Review AGM feedback and external
regulations, including early draft of 2013 (performance measures, comparator environment
Remuneration Report group and time horizons) Approve Committee evaluation process
CET remuneration review Review of independent adviser
July Grant interim 2013 LTI awards
(below executives)
August Grant main 2013 Share Value Plan
awards (below executives)
September Review of pay comparator groups Continuation of review of long-term Review of external remuneration
incentive design (performance measures, environment
comparator group and time horizons)
October Update on executives’ pension Update on LTI vesting for 2011 awards Review of Chairman’s fees
arrangements (2011-2013)
Review draft disclosures for 2013
Remuneration Report
November Review of terms and conditions and Approve materials for annual investor
policies meeting
November Annual meeting with investors
December Annual pay review Review feedback from shareholder
Approve Executive Directors’ 2014 meetings
salaries Review findings from Committee
evaluation
Review draft 2013 Remuneration Report
108 GSK Annual Report 2013Non-Executive Directors Letters of appointment
The terms of engagement of the Non-Executive Directors are
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non-Executive at the company’s registered office and at the AGM. For each
Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid by other Non-Executive Director, his or her initial appointment and any
companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to the limits subsequent re-appointment are subject to election and, thereafter,
contained in GSK’s Articles of Association. periodic re-election by shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment do not
Review of the Chairman’s fees
contain provision for notice periods or for compensation if their
Sir Christopher Gent took up the role of Chairman in January 2005. appointments are terminated.
The Chairman’s fees were last increased in January 2013 from
£675,000 to £710,000. £170,000 (or approximately 24%) of Sir The following table shows the date of the initial letter of appointment
Christopher’s total fees for 2013 were delivered in shares, which are of each Non-Executive Director:
deferred until he steps down from the Board. Fees were reviewed in
Non-Executive Director Date of letter of appointment
2013 but there is no planned increase for 2014. The Chairman has
Sir Christopher Gent 26 May 2004
elected to increase the proportion of his fees delivered in shares to
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 28 September 2007
35% from 1 January 2014 onwards.
Dr Stephanie Burns 12 February 2007
Review of Non-Executive Director fees Stacey Cartwright 3 March 2011
Non-Executive Director fees were last increased in January 2013. Lynn Elsenhans 3 May 2012
There were no increases to the supplemental fees. A minimum of Judy Lewent 3 March 2011
25% of fees will continue to be delivered as shares deferred until the Sir Deryck Maughan 26 May 2004
Non-Executive Director steps down from the Board. Dr Daniel Podolsky 3 July 2008
Tom de Swaan 21 December 2005
Fees were reviewed in 2013 but there are no planned increases for
Jing Ulrich 3 May 2012
2014. The Non-Executive Directors’ fees applying from 1 January
2014 are set out below: Hans Wijers 29 January 2013
Sir Robert Wilson 9 June 2003
Per annum
Standard annual cash retainer fee £85,000 The table below (audited) sets out the value of fees and benefits
Supplemental fees received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000 shares or ADS. Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’
Senior Independent Director and Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000 share allocation plan are set out on page 115.
Chairmen of the Remuneration and Corporate £20,000
Responsibility Committees†
Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental £7,500
travel to meetings per meeting
† S ir Christopher Gent is the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility
Committee, but does not receive the additional fee listed above.
2013 2012 (restated for benefits)
Non-Executive Directors’
Fees Fees
emoluments (000)
Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £103 £34 £15 £152 £90 £30 £22 £142
Dr Stephanie Burns $86 $86 $72 $244 $82 $82 $80 $244
Stacey Cartwright £81 £27 £5 £113 £56 £19 £6 £81
Sir Crispin Davis – £44 £11 £55 – £110 £22 £132
Lynn Elsenhans £11 £104 £71 £186 £4 £34 £51 £89
Sir Christopher Gent £540 £170 £24 £734 £540 £135 £32 £707
Judy Lewent $235 $78 $124 $437 $124 $41 $171 $336
Sir Deryck Maughan – $205 $114 $319 – $165 $118 $283
Dr Daniel Podolsky $58 $175 $119 $352 $53 $159 $136 $348
Tom de Swaan £90 £30 £38 £158 £127 £43 £45 £215
Jing Ulrich $157 $52 $182 $391 $53 $18 $42 $113
Hans Wijers £53 £18 £11 £82 – – – –
Sir Robert Wilson £88 £29 £16 £133 £90 £30 £20 £140
a) B enefits primarily consist of travel and subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to meetings on Board and
Committee matters and other GSK-hosted events which are considered to be taxable and as such, the table above now includes these figures
for 2012 (restated) and 2013. For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK.
b) N on-Executive Directors that are paid other than in GBP are converted using an exchange rate that is set annually based on the average rate
for the last quarter of the year prior to payment. The rate is reviewed if it moves significantly during the year.
c) J ames Murdoch was not a Non-Executive Director, and did not receive fees or benefits, during 2013. However, shares built up over a number
of years under the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan were released to him during the year, as detailed on page 115.
d) S ir Crispin Davis retired from the Board on 1 May 2013 and Hans Wijers joined the Board on 1 April 2013.
GSK Annual Report 2013 109Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The following interests of the Directors of the company in office at 31 December 2013 and their connected persons are shown below.
Breakdown of share plan interests as at 31 December 2013:
Total directors’ interests as at: Shares/ADS Options
Unvested and Unvested and Unvested and Unvested and
21 February 31 December 1 January subject to not subject to subject to not subject to Vested but Exercised in
2014 2013 2013 performance performance performance performance not exercised the year
Executive Directors
Shares
Sir Andrew Witty 734,002 566,142 449,987 1,699,512 – – 124,038 267,493 172,958
Simon Dingemans 152,460 84,872 70,362 655,570 – – 44,794 – –
Dr Moncef Slaoui 53,340 53,089 63,472 – – – – 95,320 25,981
ADS
Dr Moncef Slaoui 222,742 164,995 116,556 560,662 67,164 – – 4,235 –
Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 17,254 17,254 14,401 – 17,254 – – – –
Dr Stephanie Burns 44 44 44 – – – – – –
Stacey Cartwright 4,367 4,367 2,547 – 4,246 – – – –
Tom de Swaan 24,059 24,059 21,168 – 24,059 – – – –
Sir Christopher Gent 109,404 109,404 94,212 – 109,404 – – – –
Hans Wijers 1,113 1,113 – – 1,113 – – – –
Sir Robert Wilson 30,842 30,842 27,953 – 24,714 – – – –
ADS
Dr Stephanie Burns 14,284 14,284 12,008 – 14,219 – – – –
Lynn Elsenhans 5,620 5,620 2,181 – 4,620 – – – –
Judy Lewent 13,200 13,200 11,542 – 3,200 – – – –
Sir Deryck Maughan 36,198 36,198 30,720 – 36,198 – – – –
Dr Daniel Podolsky 25,876 25,876 21,383 – 25,876 – – – –
Jing Ulrich 1,809 1,809 734 – 1,471 – – – –
a) U nvested shares and ADS and unvested options held by Executive Directors which are not subject to performance reflect bonus deferrals under
the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and ShareSave awards.
b) One GSK ADS represents two GSK shares.
c) T otal interests include shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan. During 2013, 148 and 106 shares were awarded to Sir Andrew
Witty and Simon Dingemans respectively under the plan. The balance of shares within the plan is as follows:
ShareReward Plan 21 February 2014 31 December 2013 1 January 2013
Sir Andrew Witty 2,489 2,429 2,134
Simon Dingemans 643 604 392
Dr Moncef Slaoui does not participate in the ShareReward Plan.
d) T otal interests include shares or ADS resulting from the deferral of bonus (and the subsequent re-investment of dividends) under the Deferred Annual Bonus
Plan. The totals shown in the table below include bonus deferrals, but exclude any unvested matching awards which are subject to ongoing performance
criteria. The amounts represent the gross share and ADS balances prior to the sale of any shares or ADS to satisfy tax liabilities.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (bonus deferrals) 21 February 2014 31 December 2013 1 January 2013
Sir Andrew Witty (Shares) 181,785 123,262 112,833
Simon Dingemans (Shares) 63,669 44,268 29,970
Dr Moncef Slaoui (ADS) 78,331 59,424 40,269
e) T otal interests at 21 February 2014 include any shares or ADS which vested due to performance under elements of the Performance Share Plan
(2011-2013 awards), less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts (see pages 112 to 114 for further details).
f) F or Dr Moncef Slaoui, total interests include ADS purchased within the 401(k) Plan and the US Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP), and
ADS awarded to Dr Moncef Slaoui’s connected person under the Share Value Plan (SVP). The relevant balances are as follows:
Dr Moncef Slaoui 21 February 2014 31 December 2013 1 January 2013
US Retirement Savings Plans 10,538 10,241 8,249
Share Value Plan 7,740 7,740 5,390
As an Executive Director, Dr Moncef Slaoui is not eligible to receive awards under the SVP. The SVP awards shown above reflect the holdings of
Dr Moncef Slaoui’s connected person, who is also an employee of GSK. The awards are subject to three-year vesting periods and vesting is
contingent on continued employment within GSK. Any gains arising on vesting are not included in Dr Moncef Slaoui’s total remuneration figures.
During the year, the connected person was granted 2,990 ADS on 27 August 2013 at a grant price of $51.76 (face value of $154,762). Dr Moncef
Slaoui’s total interests in shares also include PSP awards held by his connected person, who is also an employee of GSK. These awards are subject to
performance criteria relevant to employees below the CET. As at 31 December 2013, the connected person held 3,898 ADS under award, comprising
awards made in 2012 (2,103 ADS) and 2013 (1,795 ADS) including dividend re-investment.
110 GSK Annual Report 2013g) F or Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans, the unvested options not subject to performance include holdings of 776 and 526 respectively as at
31 December 2013 in the ShareSave Plan, in which they participate on the same terms as all other employees. No ShareSave awards were granted
to Sir Andrew Witty during 2013. Simon Dingemans was granted 216 options under the plan on 1 December 2013. The remainder of unvested
options not subject to performance relate to bonus deferrals structured as nil-cost options under the DABP.
h) F or the Executive Directors, the following table provides details of vested but unexercised options as at 31 December 2013 under the Share Option
Plan (SOP). GSK granted options under this plan to Executive Directors on an annual basis until 2009.
Number of shares under option
Date of grant Lapse date Exercise price Sir Andrew Witty Dr Moncef Slaoui
02.12.04 01.12.14 £11.23 177,500 26,800
21.02.06 20.02.16 £14.68 89,993 68,520
267,493 95,320
i) T he ADS vested but unexercised options totalling 4,235 for Dr Moncef Slaoui represents the ADS options held by Dr Moncef Slaoui’s connected
person, who is also an employee of GSK.
j) T he following table sets out details of options (including nil-cost options under the DABP and Annual Investment Plan) exercised during 2013 by
Executive Directors. Simon Dingemans did not exercise any options during the year (his first nil-cost options under the DABP will become
exercisable in 2015).
Number of shares Market Gain on exercise
Type of award Date of grant under option Date of exercise Exercise price price at exercise (£000)
Sir Andrew Witty
SOP 15.12.03 136,000 13.05.13 £12.70 £16.81 £559
DABP – deferral 22.02.10 28,429 13.05.13 – £16.83 £478
DABP – matching 22.02.10 8,529 13.05.13 – £16.83 £144
172,958 £1,181
Dr Moncef Slaoui
Annual Investment Plan 20.03.03 5,143 15.03.13 – £14.95 £77
20.03.04 5,228 15.03.13 – £14.95 £78
18.03.05 5,393 15.03.13 – £14.95 £81
20.03.06 10,217 15.03.13 – £14.95 £153
25,981 £389
k) I n respect of options under the SOP and the ShareSave plans, the remuneration receivable by an Executive Director is calculated on the date that
the options first vest. The remuneration is the difference between the amount the Executive Director is required to pay to buy the shares or ADS
and the total value of the shares or ADS on the vesting date. If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the options on the vesting date, any
subsequent increase or decrease in the amount realised will be due to movements in the share or ADS price between the vesting date and the date
of exercise. This increase or decrease in value is the result of an investment decision by the Executive Director and, as such, is not recorded as
remuneration. No options vested for Executive Directors during 2013.
l) F or Non-Executive Directors, total interests include shares or ADS received as part or all of their fees under the Share Allocation Plan (see page
115 for further details and balances). Note that dividends received on shares or ADS under the plan during 2013 were converted into shares or
ADS as at 31 December 2013.
m) Hans Wijers joined the Board on 1 April 2013.
GSK Annual Report 2013 111Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) matching awards are made annually to Executive Directors, based on the individual’s mandatory
deferral and voluntary bonus election. The company will match shares or ADS up to one-for-one depending on the company’s performance
during a three-year performance period. Performance conditions and vesting levels are described on pages 101 to 103 of this report.
Awards to UK-based Executive Directors are made in the form of nil-cost options. Once an award vests, the UK-based Executive Director
may choose to exercise the award at any time up to 10 years from the date of grant. Awards to US-based Executive Directors are made as a
conditional award of shares. The amount of remuneration receivable in respect of the matching shares or ADS is calculated using the share
or ADS price on the date the relevant award vests. If an Executive Director chooses not to exercise the nil-cost options on the vesting date,
any subsequent increase or decrease in the amount realised will be due to movements in the share price between the vesting date and the
date of exercise. This increase or decrease in value is the result of an investment decision and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
Dividends are reinvested on the nil-cost options or conditional awards of shares made to Executive Directors up to the date of vesting.
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in respect of DABP matching awards. Market price at grant and at vesting
represent the closing share price on that date.
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2010-2012 2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016
Market price at grant £12.35 £11.80 £14.12 £14.54 £16.43
Unvested at 31 December 2012 27,649 34,451 50,733 – –
Granted – – – 31,114 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – £452 –
Dividends reinvested 780 2,295 3,533 1,136 –
Vested (8,529) – – – –
Lapsed (19,900) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2013 – 36,746 54,266 32,250 –
Granted – – – 57,060
Dividends reinvested 436 644 383 –
Vested (14,799)* – – –
Lapsed (22,383)* – – –
Unvested at 24 February 2014 – 54,910 32,633 57,060
* Vested and lapsed on 24 February 2014.
Vested shares
Number of shares 8,529 14,799
Market price at vesting £14.66 £16.83
Gain: 000 000
Remuneration for 2012 £125
Remuneration for 2013 £249
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016
Market price at grant £14.12 £14.54 £16.43
Unvested at 31 December 2012 29,970 – –
Granted – 11,783 –
Face value at grant (000) – £171 –
Dividends reinvested 2,086 429 –
Vested – – –
Lapsed – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2013 32,056 12,212 –
Granted – – 18,876
Dividends reinvested 380 145 –
Vested – – –
Lapsed – – –
Unvested at 24 February 2014 32,436 12,357 18,876
112 GSK Annual Report 2013Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards continued
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016
Market price at grant $38.22 $44.68 $44.27 $54.17
Unvested at 31 December 2012 20,259 20,010 – –
Granted – – 15,859 –
Face value at grant (000) – – $702 –
Dividends reinvested 1,337 1,383 576 –
Vested – – – –
Lapsed – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2013 21,596 21,393 16,435 –
Granted – – – 18,214
Dividends reinvested 252 249 192 –
Vested (8,696)* – – –
Lapsed (13,152)* – – –
Unvested at 24 February 2014 – 21,642 16,627 18,214
* Vested and lapsed on 24 February 2014.
Vested ADS
Number of ADS 8,696
Market price at vesting $55.75
Gain: 000
Remuneration for 2013 $485
Performance Share Plan awards
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are made to Executive Directors on an annual basis. Under the terms of the PSP, the number of shares
or ADS vesting is determined following the end of the relevant performance period and is dependent on GSK’s performance during that
period. Performance conditions and vesting levels are described on pages 101 to 103.
Dividends are reinvested on the performance shares or ADS awarded to executives throughout the performance period and up to the date of
vesting. At vesting, UK participants receive the relevant number of shares and US participants may defer receipt of all or part of their vested
awards. The amount of remuneration receivable in respect of performance shares is calculated using the share or ADS price on the date the
relevant PSP award vests.
The PSP awards made to Sir Andrew Witty in 2012, 2013 and 2014 have three year performance periods. However, the deeds of award
specify that 25% of the awards will be subject to a further two year vesting period (five years in total). During this two year period, there are
no additional performance criteria and the awards will only lapse if Sir Andrew is dismissed for cause. The remuneration in respect of these
awards will therefore be considered to be realised in full following the determination by the Remuneration Committee of the vesting levels of
the initial 75% of the awards (i.e. full remuneration will be recognised at the end of the three-year performance period).
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in respect of PSP awards. Market price at grant and at vesting represent the
closing share price on that date.
Executive Directors
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2009-2012 2010-2012 2010-2013 2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016
Market price at grant £10.62 £12.04 £12.04 £11.78 £14.12 £14.54 £16.43
Unvested at 31 December 2012 166,648 330,718 141,736 457,869 452,186 – –
Granted – – – – – 437,744 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – – – £6,365 –
Dividends reinvested 4,700 9,327 9,183 30,378 31,278 15,876 –
Vested – (121,445) – – – – –
Lapsed (171,348) (218,600) – – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2013 – – 150,919 488,247 483,464 453,620 –
Granted – – – – 397,066
Dividends reinvested 1,795 5,808 5,751 5,395 –
Vested – (196,634) – – –
Lapsed (152,714) (297,421) – – –
Unvested at 21 February 2014 – – 489,215 459,015 397,066
Vested shares:
Number of shares – 121,445 – 196,634
Market price at vesting £14.66 £14.66 £16.53 £16.53
Gain: 000 000 000 000
Remuneration for 2012 – £1,780
Remuneration for 2013 – £3,250
GSK Annual Report 2013 113Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016
Market price at grant £11.78 £14.12 £14.54 £16.43
Unvested at 31 December 2012 211,535 174,091 – –
Granted – – 192,613 –
Face value at grant (000) – – £2,801 –
Dividends reinvested 14,035 12,042 6,985 –
Vested – – – –
Lapsed – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2013 225,570 186,133 199,598 –
Granted – – – 174,729
Dividends reinvested 2,683 2,214 2,374 –
Vested (90,845) – – –
Lapsed (137,408) – – –
Unvested at 21 February 2014 – 188,347 201,972 174,729
Vested shares:
Number of shares 90,845
Market price at vesting £16.53
Gain: 000
Remuneration for 2013 £1,502
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2009-2012 2010-2012 2010-2013 2011-2013 2012-2014 2013-2015 2014-2016
Market price at grant $33.71 $37.32 $37.32 $38.13 $44.68 $44.27 $54.17
Unvested at 31 December 2012 24,462 104,029 44,584 159,276 132,708 – –
Granted – – – – – 133,521 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – – – $5,911 –
Dividends reinvested 699 2,973 2,899 10,466 9,091 4,794 –
Vested – (38,215) – – – – –
Lapsed (25,161) (68,787) – – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2013 – – 47,483 169,742 141,799 138,315 –
Granted – – – – 111,851
Dividends reinvested 554 1,979 1,653 1,613 –
Vested – (68,345) – – –
Lapsed (48,037) (103,376) – – –
Unvested at 21 February 2014 – – 143,452 139,928 111,851
Vested shares
Number of ADS – 38,215 – 68,345
Market price at vesting $44.22 $44.22 $55.06 $55.06
Gain: 000 000 000 000
Remuneration for 2012 – $1,690
Remuneration for 2013 – $3,763
114 GSK Annual Report 2013Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares or ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors as at 31 December 2012 and 2013
under the share allocation plan in relation to their fees received as Board members, together with movements in their accounts during the year.
Number of shares or ADS
31 December Dividends Allocated 31 December
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors Footnote 2013 Paid out reinvested & elected 2012
Shares
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 17,254 – 685 2,168 14,401
Stacey Cartwright 4,246 – 125 1,695 2,426
Sir Crispin Davis a – (81,119) – 2,766 78,353
Sir Christopher Gent 109,404 – 4,467 10,725 94,212
James Murdoch b – (19,806) – – 19,806
Tom de Swaan 24,059 – 998 1,893 21,168
Sir Robert Wilson 24,714 – 1,032 1,857 21,825
Hans Wijers c 1,113 – 4 1,109 –
ADS
Dr Stephanie Burns 14,219 – 539 1,737 11,943
Lynn Elsenhans 4,620 – 78 3,361 1,181
Judy Lewent 3,200 – 81 1,577 1,542
Sir Deryck Maughan 36,198 – 1,380 4,098 30,720
Dr Daniel Podolsky 25,876 – 969 3,524 21,383
Jing Ulrich 1,471 – 25 1,050 396
a) S ir Crispin Davis retired from the Board on 1 May 2013. He elected to receive his shares from the share allocation plan immediately upon retiring
from the Board.
b) J ames Murdoch retired from the Board on 3 May 2012. He elected to receive his shares from the share allocation plan after the end of the first
quarter of 2013.
c) Hans Wijers joined the Board on 1 April 2013. His opening balance is recorded from this date.
GSK Annual Report 2013 115Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the group’). For this purpose,
the group is defined as the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, other members of the Corporate Executive Team and the Company
Secretary. For the financial year 2013, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during which they
served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2013 (£)
Total compensation paid 22,956,905
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 282,475
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 927,191
During 2013, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various share plans, as set out in the table below.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2013 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 93,309 26,087 19,278 6,280
Performance Share Plan 1,519,865 313,594 274,664 70,198
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) – – 4,908 –
Share Value Plan(b) 15,146 2,990 – –
a) Notional shares and ADS.
b) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.
At 21 February 2014, the group had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Holdings issued under the various executive
share plans are described in Note 42 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on page 199.
Interests at 21 February 2014 Shares ADS Notes
Owned 1,396,328 535,100 Represents less than 1% of issued share capital
Unexercised options 1,287,123 39,845
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 485,315 149,014 Includes shares and ADS vested but unexercised
Performance Share Plan 4,166,903 963,712 Includes shares and ADS vested and deferred
Deferred Investment Awards 80,279 – Notional shares and ADS
Share Value Plan 79,511 28,420
116 GSK Annual Report 2013Remuneration policy report
Remuneration policy
The total remuneration for each Executive Director comprises the following elements:
Value earned
Salary + Benefits + Annual + from long-term + Pension = Total
bonus incentive remuneration*
awards
* The Committee may, in specific circumstances and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus as it determines appropriate.
Future policy table
The company’s Remuneration policy from 7 May 2014 in respect of each of the above elements is outlined in the table below.
Salary Benefits International assignment policy
Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy
To provide a core reward for the role. Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre GSK may require Executive Directors to relocate
individuals to execute the business strategy. in order to meet business requirements.
Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high
calibre individuals needed to deliver the Group’s
Operation Operation
strategic priorities.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive In line with the policy for other employees,
Operation benefits in line with the policy for other employees secondment and travel expenses are provided
which may vary by location. These include car for executives on overseas placement to facilitate
Individual’s role, experience and performance
allowances, healthcare, life assurance/death the relocation process and to provide a continued
and independently sourced data for relevant
in service (where not provided as part of the standard of living while on assignment.
comparator groups considered when determining
individual’s pension arrangements), personal
salary levels. International assignment allowances cover:
financial advice and contractual post-retirement
relocation costs; accommodation based on
Salary increases typically take effect in the first benefits. Executive Directors are also eligible to
size of family with appropriate security; location
quarter of each year. participate in all-employee share schemes (eg
allowance; relocation-specific tax and financial
ShareSave and ShareReward Plan), under which
Salaries are normally paid in the currency of the advice; school fees; and tax equalisation.
they are subject to the same terms as all other
Executive Director’s home country.
employees.
Opportunity
Opportunity In order to recognise the high business and travel Relocation benefits are dependent on a number of
There is no formal maximum limit, however, requirements of the role, Executive Directors are factors such as home and host country, family size
ordinarily, salary increases will be broadly in line also entitled to car travel and may be accompanied and duration of the assignment.
with the average increases for the wider GSK by their spouse/partner on business trips. Other
workforce. benefits include expenses incurred in the ordinary It is therefore not possible to provide typical values
course of business, which are deemed to be or limits.
However, increases may be higher to reflect
taxable benefits on the individual.
a change in the scope of the individual’s role, Performance measures
responsibilities or experience. Salary adjustments Benefit provision is tailored to reflect market
None
may also reflect wider market conditions in the practice in the geography in which the Executive
geography in which the individual operates. Director is based and different policies may apply
if current or future Executive Directors are based
Salary levels for 2014 are set out on page 98.
in a different country.
Performance measures
Opportunity
The overall performance of the individual is a key There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs
consideration when determining salary increases. can fluctuate depending on changes in provider
cost and individual circumstances.
Details of current benefits and costs are set out in
the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measures
None
GSK Annual Report 2013 117Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Pension
Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity US:
Pension arrangements provide a competitive Pension arrangements for existing Executive Eligible for the same benefits as other US
level of retirement income. Directors are as follows: senior executives:
Sir Andrew Witty is a member of the legacy • Cash Balance Pension Plan and
Operation
Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit plan with an Supplemental Cash Balance Pension Plan,
Pension arrangements are structured in accrual rate of 1/30th of final pensionable salary including Executive Pension Credit, provide
accordance with the plans operated in the per annum. From 1 April 2013, pensionable maximum contribution of 38% of base salary
country in which the individual is likely to retire. earnings increases are limited to 2% per annum across all pension plans.
Where the individual chooses not to become a for all members, including Sir Andrew Witty.
member of the pension plan, cash in lieu of the • GSK 401(k) plan (formerly the US
relevant pension contribution is paid instead. Simon Dingemans is not a member of any GSK Retirement Savings Plan) and the Executive
pension plan for pension contributions and Supplemental Savings Plan with core
New Executive Directors in the UK will be instead receives a cash payment of 20% of contributions of 2% of salary and bonus
entitled either to join the defined contribution salary in lieu of pension contribution. and matched contributions of 4% of salary
pension plan or to receive a cash payment in
Dr Moncef Slaoui is a member of the US Cash and bonus .
lieu of pension contribution.
Balance Pension Plans, the GSK 401(k) plan Global:
Where an individual is a member of a GSK and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan.
legacy defined benefit plan, a defined He is also a deferred member of the Belgium • Eligible for appropriate equivalent
contribution plan or an alternative pension plan Fortis Plan. arrangement not in excess of the
arrangement and is subsequently appointed to US/UK arrangements.
The policy for a new external recruit is:
the Board, he or she may remain a member of
that plan. UK: Performance measures
None
• 20% of salary contribution to defined
contribution plan and further 5% in matched
contributions in line with the policy for other
members of the plan; or
• 20% of salary cash payment in lieu of
pension contribution.
Annual bonus
Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity Performance measures
To incentivise and recognise execution of the The threshold and maximum bonus opportunities Based on financial targets and individual
business strategy on an annual basis. for Executive Directors are as follows: performance objectives.
Rewards the achievement of stretching annual 25% based on core Group profit before interest
Threshold Maximum
financial and strategic business targets and and tax for all Executive Directors. For the CEO
bonus as bonus
delivery of personal objectives. a % of as a and CFO, the balance is based on core Group
base % of base operating profit. For other Executive Directors,
salary salary
Operation the balance is based on relevant business unit
Financial, operational and business targets are CEO 40 200 performance.
set at the start of the year by the Committee and CFO 26 180 Individual performance objectives
bonus levels are determined by the Committee A multiplier, based on the achievement of
Chairman, Global
based on performance against those targets. R&D & Vaccines 27 200 individual performance targets, is applied to
Individual objectives are set at the start of the the bonus awarded for performance against
year by the Committee and performance against the financial or operational targets.
objectives is assessed by the Committee.
Executive Directors are required to defer 25%
of any bonus earned into shares, or ADS as
appropriate, for three years. They may defer up
to an additional 25% of bonus earned, i.e. up to
an overall maximum deferral of 50%. Deferred
shares vest at the end of the three
year performance period.
Deferred bonus shares are eligible for dividend
equivalents up to the date of vesting.
The Committee may apply judgement in making
appropriate adjustments to individual annual
bonus amounts.
Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as
described on page 119.
118 GSK Annual Report 2013Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) and Performance Share Plan (PSP)
Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity Performance measures
To incentivise and recognise delivery of the DABP Three equally weighted performance
longer term business priorities, financial growth Maximum bonus deferral of 50% of annual bonus measures:
and increases in shareholder value compared (25% mandatory and up to an additional 25%
• R&D new product performance*
to other pharmaceutical companies. voluntary).
• Adjusted free cash flow*
In addition, to provide alignment with Maximum matching opportunity level is on a one
shareholder interests, a retention element, share for one share basis subject to performance • Relative TSR†
to encourage long-term shareholding and criteria over three years.
* 25% vests at threshold up to 100% for maximum
discourage excessive risk taking.
PSP performance
The normal maximum award limit is six times † Against comparator group currently comprising
Operation
base salary per annum on the maximum initial GSK and nine other global pharmaceutical
DABP value of performance shares that may be companies, with 30% vesting at median, rising
Deferred shares may be matched subject to granted under the PSP to an individual in any to 100% vesting for upper quartile performance.
the achievement of performance conditions one year.
For details of unvested 2012, 2013 and 2014
over three years. Matching awards may be
The PSP rules allow for the Committee to awards, see pages 102 and 103, and pages
conditional shares or nil-cost options and are
make awards of more than 600% of salary in 112 to 114.
eligible for dividend equivalents in respect of
exceptional circumstances.
the performance period.
Current award levels for each of the Executive
PSP
Directors are as follows:
Conditional awards are made annually with
vesting dependent on the achievement of
performance conditions over three years. % of salary
From 2015 awards onwards, vested awards CEO 600
must be held for a further two years, i.e. five
CFO 400
years in total, prior to release. 25% of the CEO’s
2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP awards are subject Chairman, Global
R&D & Vaccines 500
to an additional two-year vesting period.
Awards are eligible for dividend equivalents up
to the date of vesting.
Performance targets for the DABP and PSP
are set at the start of each performance period.
Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as
described below.
Clawback and malus
With effect from the 2013 annual bonus (payable in 2014), Executive Directors are required to defer a minimum of 25% of their annual bonus into
the DABP. In the event of a ‘triggering event’ (eg significant misconduct by way of violation of regulation, law, or a significant GSK policy, such as
Code of Conduct) the company will have the ability to claw back up to three years’ annual and deferred bonuses as well as vested and unvested
LTIs. A separate Recoupment Committee has been established to investigate relevant claims of misconduct.
Additionally, where there has been continuity of responsibility between initiation of an adverse event and its emergence as a problem, the adverse
event should be taken into account in assessing annual bonus awards and LTI vesting levels in the year the problem is identified and for future periods.
The Committee may make appropriate adjustments to individual annual bonuses as well as grant and vesting levels of LTI awards to reflect this.ments
to individual annual bonus amounts.
GSK Annual Report 2013 119Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Long-term incentive measures
The Committee has selected three equally weighted performance measures to focus Executive Directors’ long-term remuneration on the
delivery of GSK’s key strategic priorities. From 2014, PSP and DABP awards made to Executive Directors are based on R&D new product
performance, adjusted free cash flow and relative TSR.
In addition to setting robust targets, the Committee has implemented a number of safeguards to ensure the targets are met in a sustainable
way and any performance reflects genuine achievement against targets and therefore represents the delivery of value for shareholders.
For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition or divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the event. Any major
adjustment in the calculation of performance measures will be disclosed to shareholders on vesting. The principal safeguards are detailed
under each measure below. The Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and other members, who are also members of the Remuneration
Committee, provide input on the Audit & Risk Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and oversight of any risk factors relevant to
remuneration decisions.
The rationale behind each performance measure and how it is calculated are as follows (for vesting schedules please see page 103 of the
Annual Report on Remuneration):
Performance
measure Rationale Calculation methodology
R&D new Recognises the importance of R&D to future business The target is based on sales of new products launched in the
product growth performance period and the preceding two years.
performance One of the key indicators used to assess performance in the
The aggregate three-year revenue target should reflect growth
pharmaceutical industry is the strength of a company’s product
on historic performance.
pipeline. The R&D new product performance measure recognises
the importance of R&D to future business growth and has been Vesting may be reduced if insufficient progress has been made
included as a measure in order to incentivise R&D performance during the performance period towards GSK’s target return on
and drive the development and sales of new products. The R&D investment.
Committee believes that it is a robust and appropriate measure
The Committee recognises that, from time to time, it may be
as it reflects actual delivery from the pipeline and launch
appropriate for the company to respond to an emerging pandemic,
excellence.
as this supports GSK’s ethical responsibilities and values. The
impact of such revenue will be included, unless the Committee
considers that this did not add to shareholder value and provided
that underlying performance was sufficiently positive.
Adjusted free Recognises the importance of effective working capital Aggregate three-year adjusted free cash flow target.
cash flow and cash management
Adjustments may be made for materially distorting items which
performance The use of cash flow as a performance measure is intended to
may include exchange rate movements, major legal and taxation
recognise the importance of effective working capital management
settlements and special pension contributions.
and of generating cash from assets for future value-creating
investments and for returns to shareholders.
Relative TSR Focuses on delivery of value to shareholders Relative TSR is measured over three years, using a 12-month
performance The Committee recognises that the delivery of value to averaging period. TSR is measured in local currency.
shareholders is a key priority. Relative total shareholder return
against a peer group of global pharmaceutical companies was
selected in order to closely align the interests of Executive
Directors with those of our investors.
The Committee regularly reviews the composition of the TSR
comparator group.
120 GSK Annual Report 2013Annual bonus measures
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of GSK’s annual financial and strategic business targets and the delivery of personal
objectives.
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal review of performance against stretching financial targets. This outcome is
then adjusted to reflect individual performance by applying an individual performance multiplier. For reasons of commercial sensitivity, specific
personal objectives are kept confidential.
Financial performance Individual performance
The Committee believes that it is important for the majority of the CEO CEO
and the CFO’s financial targets to be based on core Group operating profit Individual performance objectives for Sir Andrew Witty are set by the
with a smaller element based on core Group Profit Before Interest and Tax Board in January each year. The Board focuses on the strategic priorities
to reflect their wider responsibility for driving profitable investments that have been developed for the Group. Following the end of the
in associates and joint ventures. financial year, the Board reviews his performance generally and against
the set objectives to determine the appropriate bonus payable for his
Bonus measures for R&D employees, including Dr Moncef Slaoui, are
performance.
linked to pipeline performance. A robust governance structure has
been established to ensure that the bonus payable fairly reflects R&D Other Executive Directors
productivity and performance. The CEO sets individual objectives for the other Executive Directors
To recognise Dr Moncef Slaoui’s current dual responsibility for Global in line with company strategy and makes recommendations to the
R&D & Vaccines, an element of his bonus is currently based on Vaccines Committee regarding their performance against those objectives at
performance. Consistent with the other Executive Directors, an element the end of the year. Those recommendations are then considered by
of his bonus is also currently based on core Group Profit Before Interest the Committee before it determines the level of bonuses payable.
and Tax.
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The Committee determines the remuneration package of new The Committee is mindful of the sensitivity relating to recruitment
Executive Directors on a case-by-case basis depending on the packages and, in particular, the ‘buying out’ of rights relating to
role, the market from which they will operate and their experience. previous employment and sign-on payments. It will therefore seek
Total remuneration levels will be set by reference to a relevant pay to minimise such arrangements. However, in certain circumstances,
comparator group and, where appropriate, will allow for future to enable the recruitment of exceptional talent, the Committee may
development in the role. determine that such arrangements are in the best interests of the
company and its shareholders. Such arrangements will, where
It is expected that new Executive Directors will participate in short
possible, be on a like-for-like basis with the forfeited awards.
and long-term incentive plans on the same basis as existing directors.
Arrangements will therefore vary depending on the plans and
However, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee reserves the
arrangements put in place by the previous employer and may be
flexibility to set the incentive limit for a new Executive Director at up
in the form of cash or shares and may or may not be subject to
to an additional 50% of the existing limits.
performance conditions. Explanations will be provided where
The Committee retains this flexibility in recognition of the high payments are made either as compensation for previous remuneration
levels of variable pay in GSK’s global pharmaceutical competitors. forfeited or as a sign-on payment.
However, the Committee will only use this flexibility when it is
The remuneration arrangements for any newly appointed Executive
considered to be in the best interests of the company and its
Director will be disclosed as soon as practicable after the
investors. Furthermore, it will only use this flexibility in relation
appointment.
to external recruits, and any such awards will be in line with the
principles in the future policy table and subject to performance The following policy and principles apply to the roles of Chairman
conditions. and Non-Executive Director.
Pension arrangements for external appointments as an Executive Chairman
Director will be as set out in the remuneration policy table on
Fees will be set at a level that is competitive with those paid by other
page 118.
companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fees will be paid partly
Other benefits will be provided in line with the policy for existing in shares.
Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors
Where required to meet business needs, relocation support
Fee levels for new Non-Executive Directors will be set on the same
will be provided in line with company policy.
basis as for existing Non-Executive Directors of the company. Subject
For any internal appointments, entitlements under existing to local laws and regulations, fees will be paid partly in shares.
remuneration elements will continue, including pension entitlements
In the event of a Non-Executive Director with a different role and
and any outstanding awards. However, where not already the case,
responsibilities being appointed, fee levels will be benchmarked and
internal appointments will be required to move to Executive Director
set by reference to comparable roles in companies of equivalent size
contractual terms, including termination provisions.
and complexity.
GSK Annual Report 2013 121Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Loss of office payment policy
The following table sets out the contractual framework for Executive Directors. The terms specifically relating to termination are set out in more
detail below.
Policy
Duration of The company does not have a policy of fixed term contracts. Generally, contracts for new appointments will expire in line with the
contracts applicable policy on retirement age, which since 2009 has been 65.
Contracts for existing Executive Directors will expire on the dates shown on page 123.
Notice period Notice period on termination by employing company or Executive Director is 12 calendar months.
Mitigation The ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period (and a non-solicitation restriction) on an Executive Director is considered
important by the company to have the ability to protect the Group’s intellectual property and staff.
In light of this, the Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in the contracts.
Termination of employment
In the event that an Executive Director’s employment with the company terminates, the following policies and payments will apply.
Element of
Remuneration Loss of office payment policy
Termination Termination by notice: 12 months annual salary payable on termination by the company (pro-rated where part of the notice
payment period is worked). No termination payment is made in respect of any part of a notice period that extends beyond the contract
expiry date.
A bonus element is not normally included in the termination payment. However, the terms of the contracts seek to balance
commercial imperatives and best practice. If the company enforces the non-compete clause for the current CEO and Chairman,
Global R&D and Vaccines, up to 12 months on-target bonus will be payable.
Redundancy: As above, for termination by notice. In the UK, only statutory redundancy pay will apply. In the US, general
severance policy does not apply.
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: No termination payment.
LTI awards PSP and DABP matching awards are governed by the Plan Rules as approved by shareholders.
Termination by notice: Unvested awards lapse.
Redundancy and retirement: Generally, awards vest over the original timescales, subject to the original performance conditions.
Awards made in the last 12 months are forfeited.
Death and ill-health, injury or disability: Generally, awards will vest following the end of the financial year, normally taking into
account performance to that date. Awards may be pro-rated for time.
In the event of a change of control, PSP and DABP matching awards will vest, taking into account performance to date and
normally taking into account the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed. Alternatively, the awards may be exchanged
for new awards.
Annual bonus Termination by notice by individual: If an individual serves notice and the termination date falls before 31 December, the bonus
is forfeited.
Termination by notice by the company, redundancy, retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: If the termination
date falls during the financial year, eligible for pro-rated on-target bonus (if employed on 31 December, bonus payable based on
actual results).
DABP deferred Termination by notice: Deferred shares vest in full on the date of termination.
bonus awards
Redundancy, retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: Generally, deferred shares vest in full at the end of the
financial year in which the termination date falls.
Benefits Generally, benefits will continue to apply until the termination date.
Termination by notice by the company and retirement (US executives): In line with the policy applicable to US senior
executives, the Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines may become eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing medical and
dental insurance after termination/retirement.
Termination by mutual agreement: In certain circumstances it can be in the best interests of the company for the Board to manage proactively succession
planning and the development of the senior talent pipeline. In such circumstances, the Board may therefore agree that an executive’s departure will be by
mutual agreement. In order for this to apply, the Committee will need to be satisfied that the executive has demonstrated performance in line with expectations,
where required they should have contributed to an orderly succession, and they should have completed at least 20 years’ service with the Group on the
termination date. In the case of an Executive Director, they would then be treated as a ‘good leaver’ for the purposes of GSK’s long-term incentive plans. If the
termination date falls during the financial year, they would be eligible for a pro-rated on-target bonus and if they are employed on 31 December, the bonus
payable would be based on actual results. In the case of the CEO, as a member of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, his pension would then be payable
from the later of his termination date and age 55 without actuarial reduction.
122 GSK Annual Report 2013Termination of employment continued Differences between remuneration policy
The Committee does not anticipate the exercise of discretion for Executive Directors and other employees
provided by the PSP and DABP plan rules in respect of termination
payments. However, there may be unforeseen circumstances where When setting remuneration levels for the Executive Directors,
this is in the best interests of the company and its shareholders. the Committee considers the prevailing market conditions, the
Where it is necessary to exercise discretion, explanations will be competitive environment (through comparison with the remuneration
provided. of executives at companies of similar size, complexity and
international reach) and the positioning and relativities of pay
Where an Executive Director leaves the company, the Committee
and employment conditions across the broader GSK workforce.
will carry out an assessment of the individual’s performance and
conduct over the time in role. If it is determined that the individual’s In particular, the Committee considers the range of base salary rises
performance or conduct was contrary to the legitimate expectations for the workforces of those parts of GSK where the CEO, CFO and
of the company, the Committee reserves the right to apply Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines are employed. This is considered
appropriate mechanisms such as ‘clawback’ (see page 119), to be the most relevant comparison as these populations reflect most
or reduction or lapsing of outstanding incentive awards (‘malus’), closely the economic environments encountered by the individuals.
to ensure that any termination payments are in the best interests
The same principles apply to the remuneration policy for Executive
of the company and its shareholders.
Directors and other employees although the remuneration offered
In the case of termination for cause, all payments and unvested to Executive Directors under this policy has a stronger emphasis
awards are forfeited except shares deferred under the DABP on performance-related pay than that offered to other employees
(which vest in full on the date of termination) and accrued salary of the Group.
and expenses.
• Salary and benefits (including pension) are tailored to the local
market.
Service contracts
The table below sets out the relevant dates of the current Executive • The annual bonus plan applies to the wider employee population
Directors’ service contracts, which are available for review at the and is based on business and individual performance.
company’s registered office during office hours. • A combination of performance-related and restricted share plans
applies to the wider employee population.
Date of Effective
contract date Expiry date Notes • All-employee share plans are available to employees in the UK,
Sir Andrew 18.06.08 22.05.08 31.08.24 Contract amended on including the HM Revenue & Customs approved UK ShareSave
Witty 04.02.10 to remove
and ShareReward Plans.
entitlement to bonus
on termination The company conducts regular employee surveys which include
feedback on remuneration matters.
Simon 08.09.10 04.01.11 30.04.28
Dingemans In the wider organisation, we have aligned our performance
and reward systems with our values and introduced a new
Dr Moncef 21.12.10 21.12.10 01.08.19 Contract replaced on
performance system in 2014 that formally evaluates employees
Slaoui 21.12.10, principally to
on both ‘what’ they need to do and ‘how’ they do it. Also, for our
remove entitlement to
bonus on termination most senior people we dis-incentivise unethical working practices
using a ‘clawback’ mechanism that allows us to recover
performance-related pay.
GSK Annual Report 2013 123Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Scenarios for future total remuneration
CEO (£000)
The charts opposite provide illustrations of the future total
11,647
remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of the 12,000
remuneration opportunity granted to each of them in 2014 under the
Policy. A range of potential outcomes is provided for each Executive 10,000
Director and the underlying assumptions are set out below.
All scenarios: 8,000 65%
• 2014 base salary has been used. 5,477
6,000
• 2013 benefits and pension figures have been used, i.e. based on
actual amounts received in 2013 in respect of the ongoing policy. 41%
4,000
• Each Executive Director is assumed to defer 50% of their annual 19%
1,861 25%
bonus (the maximum permitted amount) and receive the 2,000
corresponding matching award under the DABP (included within 100% 34% 16%
the value of LTI awards). 0
Fixed Expected Maximum
• The amounts shown under value of LTI awards for the DABP and
PSP are based on the bonus opportunity and the relevant multiples
CFO (£000)
of 2014 salary respectively. They do not include amounts in
respect of dividends reinvested and do not factor in changes
to share price over the vesting period. 12,000
Fixed:
10,000
• None of the pay for performance (annual bonus and LTI) would
be payable.
8,000
Expected:
• For the annual bonus, it is assumed that target financial 6,000 5,731
performance is achieved, and the performance of each Executive
61%
Director would result in an individual performance multiplier of 4,000
100% (i.e. no increase to the financial performance element of 2,486
the bonus has been applied). This results in an assumed bonus 2,000 40%
23%
of 125%, 80% and 85% of salary for Sir Andrew Witty, Simon 923 23%
100% 37% 16%
Dingemans and Dr Moncef Slaoui respectively. 0
Fixed Expected Maximum
• For the LTI awards, threshold levels of vesting are assumed.
Maximum: Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines($000)
• It is assumed that the annual bonus would be payable at the
maximum level and that the awards under the DABP and PSP 11,919
12,000
would vest in full.
10,000
61%
8,000
6,000 5,314
39%
4,000
20%
2,224 19%
2,000
100% 42% 19%
0
Fixed Expected Maximum
Long-term variable remuneration Annual variable remuneration
Fixed remuneration
124 GSK Annual Report 2013Non-Executive Director remuneration policy
Element Purpose and link to strategy Overview
Chairman’s fee To provide an inclusive flat rate fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually and set
that is competitive with those paid by reference to a review of the Chairman’s performance and independently
by other companies of equivalent sourced market data.
size and complexity subject to the
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating and making
limits contained in GSK’s Articles
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the Chairman.
of Association.
The Chairman does not participate in discussions in respect of his fees.
Fees can be paid in a combination of cash and/or GSK shares or ADS.
See further details of GSK’s Non-Executive Director’s share allocation plan
below.
Basic fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually and set
by reference to independently sourced market data.
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the company’s
Non-Executive Directors.
A minimum of 25% is delivered in the form of GSK shares or ADS.
See further details of GSK’s Non-Executive Director’s share allocation plan
below.
Supplemental fees To provide additional compensation Additional fees for Committee Chairmen, intercontinental travel and the Senior
for Non-Executive Directors Independent Director. Current fee levels are set out on page 109 of the Annual
(excluding the Chairman) taking on Report on Remuneration.
additional Board responsibilities or
undertaking intercontinental travel
to meetings.
Benefits To facilitate execution of Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the
responsibilities and duties required normal course of business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee
by the role. matters and other GSK-hosted events. For overseas-based Non-Executive
Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK. Non-Executive Directors
may from time to time be accompanied by their spouse or partner to these
meetings or events. The costs associated with the above are all met by the
company and in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable and therefore
treated as benefits for the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive To enhance the link between At least 25% of the Non-Executive Directors’ total fees, excluding those of the
Directors’ share directors and shareholders, GSK Chairman, are paid in the form of GSK shares or ADS and allocated to a share
allocation plan requires Non-Executive Directors or ADS account.
to receive a significant part of their
The Non-Executive Directors may also take the opportunity to invest part or
fees in the form of GSK shares or
all of the balance of their fees into the same share or ADS account.
ADS.
The GSK shares or ADS which are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive
Directors and allocated to their interest accounts are set out in the table on
page 115 and are included in the Directors’ interests table on page 110.
The accumulated balances of these GSK shares or ADS, together with the
notional dividends accrued, are not paid out to Non-Executive Directors until
they leave the Board. Upon leaving, the Non-Executive Directors will receive
either the GSK shares or ADS, or a cash amount equivalent to the value of the
GSK shares or ADS at the date of leaving, or date of payment if later.
Letter of Non-Executive Directors’ and the Non-Executive Directors will be subject to annual election or re-election and
appointment Chairman’s terms of engagement will normally serve no longer than nine years from the date of first election by
are set out in letters of appointment shareholders at a general meeting.
as set out in the table on page 109.
The Chairman will be subject to annual appointment by shareholders and may
serve longer than nine years from the date of first election by shareholders at
a general meeting.
GSK Annual Report 2013 125Governance & remuneration
Directors’ Remuneration Report
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy Basis of preparation
The current Remuneration policy (the Policy) is set out on pages 117 The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in
to 125 and it is intended that the Policy for GSK’s Executive and accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and
Non-Executive Directors will apply from the close of the company’s Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014 after it has been submitted (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). In accordance
by the Committee for approval by shareholders. The Committee with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report on
currently intends to operate in accordance with this Policy prior to Remuneration are subject to audit: total remuneration figures for
the Annual General Meeting, with the exception of the additional Executive Directors including further details for each element of
two-year holding period for Performance Share Plan awards which remuneration (salary, benefits, annual bonus, long-term incentive
will apply to awards made in 2015 onwards. awards and pension); Non-Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments
received in the year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests
The Committee has written this Policy principally in relation to the
in GSK share plans; payments to past directors; payments for loss of
remuneration arrangements for the CEO, CFO and Chairman, Global
office; and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which the
R&D & Vaccines whilst taking into account the possible recruitment
opinion thereon is expressed on page 129. The remaining sections of
of a replacement or an additional Executive Director during the
the Directors’ Remuneration Report are not subject to audit nor are
operation of this Policy. The Committee intends this Policy to operate
the pages referred to from within the audited sections.
for the period set out above in its entirety. However, it may after due
consideration, seek to change the Policy during this period, but only The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the
if it believes it is appropriate to do so for the long-term success of the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
company, after consultation with shareholders and having sought
shareholder approval at a general meeting.
In drafting this Policy, the Committee reserves the right to make any
remuneration payments and payments for loss of office (including
Tom de Swaan
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such
Remuneration Committee Chairman
payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy
26 February 2014
set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed (i) before
the policy came into effect or (ii) at a time when the relevant individual
was not a director of the company and, in the opinion of the
Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual
becoming a director of the company. For these purposes “payments”
includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration.
In relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are
“agreed” at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy
set out in this report (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or
administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation)
without obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and
holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss and
take feedback on its remuneration policy and governance matters.
The annual meetings were held in November 2013, at which Tom
de Swaan, Committee Chairman, shared updates on remuneration
matters in the last 12 months and proposals for 2014 onwards.
In particular this covered the changes to performance conditions
applying to long-term incentives, the introduction of an additional
two-year holding period for performance share awards (i.e. five years
in total) which will apply to Executive Directors for awards made in
2015 onwards and policies that are now required to be disclosed
in the Remuneration Policy Report.
126 GSK Annual Report 2013Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 128
Independent Auditor’s report 129
Financial statements 132
Notes to the financial statements 136
Financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
under UK GAAP 211
GSK Annual Report 2013 127Financial statements
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
in relation to the Group financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Disclosure of information to auditors
the Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each
accordance with applicable law and regulations. confirmed that:
UK Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial • so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted
as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
by the European Union. In preparing the Group financial statements,
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware
the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, as issued by the
of that information.
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Under company
law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group
for that period. Going concern basis
Pages 58 to 74 contain information on the performance of the Group,
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and borrowing
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them facilities. Further information, including Treasury risk management
consistently; policies, exposures to market and credit risk and hedging activities,
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable is given in Note 41 to the financial statements, ‘Financial instruments
and prudent; and related disclosures’. After making enquiries, the Directors have
a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
• state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB,
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in
the financial statements.
the Group financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Internal control
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal
Group financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report
with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and The UK Corporate Governance Code
detection of fraud and other irregularities. The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code maintained
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December
by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in the Corporate
2013, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are
Governance section on pages 82 to 95, and has complied with its
set out in ‘Financial statements’ on pages 132 to 210 of this report.
provisions. The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group financial
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report on pages
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s
129 to 131.
performance, business model and strategy.
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, the
2013 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in
auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance in
printed form and made available on our website. The Directors are
relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code which
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
are specified for their review.
on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to
Annual Report
the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable
The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2013,
legislation may be different.
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report,
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has
in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2013 been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
• the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued
by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Sir Christopher Gent
financial position and profit of the Group; and Chairman
26 February 2014
• the Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report
include a fair review of the development and performance of the
business and the position of the Group, together with a description
of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
128 GSK Annual Report 2013Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Our opinion Overview of our audit approach
In our opinion, the Group financial statements defined below: Materiality
• give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs at We set certain thresholds for materiality. These helped us to
31 December 2013 and of the Group’s profit and cash flows determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and
for the year then ended; to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the
financial statements as a whole.
• have been properly prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for
European Union; and the Group financial statements as a whole to be £332 million which
represents 5% of profit before taxation.
• have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to
them misstatements identified during our audit above £10 million as
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the
well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted
remainder of this report.
reporting for qualitative reasons.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
Overview of the scope of our audit
As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Group,
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units,
in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,
comprising the Group’s operating businesses and centralised
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting
functions.
Standards Board (IASB).
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs
determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the
as issued by the IASB.
reporting units by us, as the Group audit team, or by component
auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating
What we have audited
under our instruction. Where the work was performed by component
The Group financial statements, which are prepared by
auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have
GlaxoSmithKline plc, comprise:
in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude
• the Group balance sheet at 31 December 2013; whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as
a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
• the Group income statement and statement of comprehensive
income for the year then ended; We identified 28 reporting units which, in our view, required an audit
of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their
• the Group statement of changes in equity and statement of
risk characteristics. Specific audit procedures on certain specified
cash flows for the year then ended; and
balances and transactions were performed at a further 26 reporting
• the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a units. Together with additional procedures performed at the Group
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory level, this gave us the evidence that we needed for our opinion on
information. the Group financial statements as a whole.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
Areas of particular audit focus
preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors made a number
the European Union.
of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and
What an audit of financial statements involves
considering future events that are inherently uncertain. We primarily
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
focused our work in these areas by assessing the Directors’
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (ISAs (UK & Ireland)). An audit involves
judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the
and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the
financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and
caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to
provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtained
• whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s
audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls,
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately
substantive procedures or a combination of both.
disclosed;
We considered the following areas to be those that required
• the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
particular focus in the current year. This is not a complete list of all
by the Directors; and
risks or areas of focus identified by our audit. We discussed these
• the overall presentation of the financial statements. areas of focus with the Audit & Risk Committee. Their report on
those matters that they considered to be significant issues in
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information
relation to the financial statements is set out on page 91.
in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the
audited Group financial statements and to identify any information
that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially
inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of
performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material
misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for
our report.
GSK Annual Report 2013 129Financial statements
Independent Auditors’ report
Independent Auditors’ report continued
Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus
Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in We tested the calculation of the accruals, validating assumptions by reference to third party
the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business data and assessing the judgements taken for reasonableness against historical trends.
We focused on this area because rebates, discounts,
We also evaluated the design and operating effectiveness of controls in the rebates,
allowances and returns arrangements for the US
discounts, allowances and returns process.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business are complex
and because establishing an appropriate accrual
requires significant judgement and estimates by the
Directors. The Directors have determined an accrual
of £1.2 billion to be necessary at 31 December 2013.
Core Business Services We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key controls both before
As part of the simplification of its operating model, and after the migration to the centralised processing environment. We tested the accuracy
the Group has continued the roll-out of an enterprise- and completeness of data migration into the new ERP and the controls over this process.
wide resource planning system (ERP). In addition,
We managed and directed centrally the audit work performed by component auditors at the
financial transaction processing has been centralised
BPOs and BSCs and performed oversight visits to the significant entities that were impacted
at business process outsourcing locations (BPOs)
by these changes in 2013.
and other accounting services have been centralised
at business service centres (BSCs).
Consequently, 2013 has been a year of significant
change for the finance function. As such, we identified
a heightened risk that control design and operation
might be impacted during this period of transition.
Potential implications of alleged illegal acts We considered the ongoing work of the independent investigators appointed by the
Following the allegations by the Chinese authorities Company and assessed whether their scope is sufficient and whether the results of the
of illegal acts by the Group’s Chinese business, investigation to date support the Directors’ conclusions.
we identified the following risks:
We performed oversight visits to China to review the approach and testing results of
• That the alleged illegal acts might give rise to the component auditor.
fines or other legal penalties (in the event that
We assessed the Directors’ determination that it is not possible to reliably estimate
the allegations are proven) which have not been
the financial effect, if any, of these allegations or its timing.
appropriately recorded or measured in the
financial statements; We assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions and trading forecasts that the
• That the carrying value of assets in the Group’s Directors used to support the carrying value of assets in the Chinese business.
Chinese business is not supportable in light of We performed additional audit tests at certain locations outside of China, which were
the subsequent decline in trading and the designed to evaluate whether the practices alleged in China occurred at other locations
potential impact on future business; and across the Group.
• That illegal acts similar to those alleged to have
occurred in China have occurred elsewhere in
the Group.
Refer to Note 44 to the Group financial statements.
Fraud in revenue recognition We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over the validity and
There is a presumed risk of fraud in revenue timing of revenue recognised in the financial statements as well as the completeness of
recognition in ISAs (UK & Ireland) because of the accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns. We also tested journal entries
pressure that management may feel to achieve the posted to revenue accounts and on consolidation to identify unusual or irregular items.
planned results.
We assessed the accounting for material new agreements, trading arrangements (with
We focused on the validity of revenue recognised customers and wholesalers) and one-off transactions.
close to the year-end as well as the accruals for
We performed year-end sales cut-off testing to check that revenue was recorded in the
rebates, discounts, allowances and returns where
correct period.
calculations can be complex and involve estimation.
Risk of management override of internal We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for
controls staff to “whistle-blow” inappropriate actions and we interviewed senior management and
ISAs (UK & Ireland) require that we consider this the Group’s internal audit function. We examined the significant accounting estimates and
risk. judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the Directors that
may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. We also tested journal entries
including consolidation entries.
This was in addition to the audit work described above in relation to alleged illegal acts and
fraud in revenue recognition.
130 GSK Annual Report 2013Going concern Other information in the Annual Report
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Directors’ Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if,
statement set out on page 128 in relation to going concern. We in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
have nothing to report having performed our review.
• m aterially inconsistent with the information in the audited
As noted in the Directors’ statement, the Directors have concluded Group financial statements; or
that it is appropriate to prepare the Group’s financial statements
• a pparently materially incorrect based on, or materially
using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in
basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain
the course of performing our audit; or
in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least
one year from the date the financial statements were signed. As • i s otherwise misleading.
part of our audit, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
going concern basis is appropriate.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
However, because not all future events or conditions can be
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s
Our responsibilities and those of the Directors
ability to continue as a going concern.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’
Opinion on matters prescribed by the responsibilities on page 128, the Directors are responsible for
the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being
Companies Act 2006
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
In our opinion, the information given in the Strategic report and the Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group
Directors’ report for the financial year for which the Group financial financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs
statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
statements. Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
Other matters on which we are required to
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter
report by exception
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume
Adequacy of information and explanations received responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where
you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions
to report arising from this responsibility. Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company financial
Directors’ remuneration statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you December 2013 and on the information in the Directors’
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
specified by law have not been made. We have no exceptions to The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
report arising from this responsibility. 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
name should not be stated.
Corporate governance statement
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of
the corporate governance statement relating to the Company’s
compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
Code (the Code). We have nothing to report having performed
our review. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
On page 128 of the Annual Report and as required by the Code Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Provision C.1.1, the Directors state that they consider the Annual London
Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable 26 February 2014
and provides the information necessary for members to assess the
Group’s performance, business model and strategy. On page 91
and as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit & Risk Committee
has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the
financial statements and how they were addressed. Under ISAs
Notes:
(UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
(a) T he maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline plc
• the statement given by the Directors is materially inconsistent
website is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried
with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of
out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these
performing our audit; or
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility
• the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the for any changes that may have occurred to the financial
Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters statements since they were initially presented on the website.
communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
(b) Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdiction.
GSK Annual Report 2013 131Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2013
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 26,505 26,431 27,387
Cost of sales (8,585) (7,925) (7,673)
Gross profit 17,920 18,506 19,714
Selling, general and administration (8,480) (8,789) (8,547)
Research and development (3,923) (3,979) (4,020)
Royalty income 387 306 309
Other operating income 7 1,124 1,256 278
Operating profit 8 7,028 7,300 7,734
Finance income 11 61 79 90
Finance expense 12 (767) (808) (799)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 282 – 585
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 43 29 15
Profit before taxation 6,647 6,600 7,625
Taxation 14 (1,019) (1,922) (2,220)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,628 4,678 5,405
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 192 179 197
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,436 4,499 5,208
5,628 4,678 5,405
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 112.5p 91.6p 103.6p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 110.5p 90.2p 102.1p
Comparative information has been restated for consistency of presentation as set out in Note 1, ‘Presentation of the financial statements’.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2013
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 5,628 4,678 5,405
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 34 (255) (226) (255)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 34 – – (1)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 367 77 (20)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (29) (10) 23
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (38) (19) (29)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments 7 10 –
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (9) (6) –
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 1 – –
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 2 2 1
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures 15 30 (8)
61 (142) (289)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests (35) (30) (44)
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 847 (685) (884)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans (286) 193 243
526 (522) (685)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 34 587 (664) (974)
Total comprehensive income for the year 6,215 4,014 4,431
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 6,058 3,865 4,278
Non-controlling interests 157 149 153
Total comprehensive income for the year 6,215 4,014 4,431
132 GSK Annual Report 2013Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2013
2012
2013 (restated)
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 8,872 8,776
Goodwill 18 4,205 4,359
Other intangible assets 19 9,283 10,161
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 323 579
Other investments 21 1,202 787
Deferred tax assets 14 2,084 2,391
Derivative financial instruments 41 1 54
Other non-current assets 22 889 682
Total non-current assets 26,859 27,789
Current assets
Inventories 23 3,900 3,969
Current tax recoverable 14 129 103
Trade and other receivables 24 5,442 5,242
Derivative financial instruments 41 155 49
Liquid investments 32 66 81
Cash and cash equivalents 25 5,534 4,184
Assets held for sale 26 1 64
Total current assets 15,227 13,692
Total assets 42,086 41,481
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 32 (2,789) (3,631)
Trade and other payables 27 (8,317) (8,054)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (127) (63)
Current tax payable 14 (1,452) (1,374)
Short-term provisions 29 (992) (693)
Total current liabilities (13,677) (13,815)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 32 (15,456) (14,671)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (693) (1,004)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (2,189) (3,121)
Other provisions 29 (552) (699)
Derivative financial instruments 41 (3) (2)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (1,704) (1,432)
Total non-current liabilities (20,597) (20,929)
Total liabilities (34,274) (34,744)
Net assets 7,812 6,737
Equity
Share capital 33 1,336 1,349
Share premium account 33 2,595 2,022
Retained earnings 34 913 642
Other reserves 34 2,153 1,787
Shareholders’ equity 6,997 5,800
Non-controlling interests 815 937
Total equity 7,812 6,737
The financial statements on pages 132 to 210 were approved by the Board on 26 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2013 133Financial statements
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2013
Shareholders’ equity
Retained Non- Total
Share Share earnings Other Total controlling equity
capital premium (restated) reserves (restated) interests (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2011 as previously reported 1,418 1,428 4,779 1,262 8,887 858 9,745
Prior year adjustment - IAS 19 – – (20) – (20) – (20)
At 1 January 2011 as restated 1,418 1,428 4,759 1,262 8,867 858 9,725
Profit for the year – – 5,208 – 5,208 197 5,405
Other comprehensive expense for the year – – (909) (21) (930) (44) (974)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 4,299 (21) 4,278 153 4,431
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (234) (234)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,406) – (3,406) – (3,406)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – 18 18
Forward contract relating to non-controlling interest – – – (29) (29) – (29)
Ordinary shares issued 5 245 – – 250 – 250
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares (36) – (2,191) 36 (2,191) – (2,191)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (36) (36) – (36 )
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 45 45 – 45
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (345) 345 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 191 – 191 – 191
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 50 – 50 – 50
At 31 December 2011 1,387 1,673 3,357 1,602 8,019 795 8,814
Profit for the year – – 4,499 – 4,499 179 4,678
Other comprehensive expense for the year – – (665) 31 (634) (30) (664)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 3,834 31 3,865 149 4,014
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (171) (171)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,814) – (3,814) – (3,814)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (382) – (382) 164 (218)
Forward contract relating to non-controlling interest – – – 8 8 – 8
Ordinary shares issued 7 349 – – 356 – 356
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares (45) – (2,493) 45 (2,493) – (2,493)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (37) (37) – (37)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts – – – 58 58 – 58
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (80) 80 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 211 – 211 – 211
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 9 – 9 – 9
At 31 December 2012 1,349 2,022 642 1,787 5,800 937 6,737
Profit for the year – – 5,436 – 5,436 192 5,628
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 316 306 622 (35) 587
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 5,752 306 6,058 157 6,215
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (238) (238)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,680) – (3,680) – (3,680)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (584) – (584) (41) (625)
Ordinary shares issued 12 573 – – 585 – 585
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury shares (25) – (1,504) 25 (1,504) – (1,504)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (45) (45) – (45)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (80) 80 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 294 – 294 – 294
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 73 – 73 – 73
At 31 December 2013 1,336 2,595 913 2,153 6,997 815 7,812
134 GSK Annual Report 2013Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2013
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 5,628 4,678 5,405
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 2,871 1,370 2,308
Cash generated from operations 8,499 6,048 7,713
Taxation paid (1,277) (1,673) (1,463)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,222 4,375 6,250
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,188) (1,051) (923)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 46 68 100
Purchase of intangible assets (513) (469) (405)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 136 1,056 237
Purchase of equity investments (133) (229) (76)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 59 28 68
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 (247) (2,235) (264)
Disposal of businesses 38 1,851 – –
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 (8) (99) (35)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary and interest in associate 429 – 1,034
Decrease in liquid investments 15 224 30
Interest received 59 30 97
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 18 46 25
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 524 (2,631) (112)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options – 58 45
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (45) (37) (36)
Issue of share capital 33 585 356 250
Purchase of own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares (1,504) (2,493) (2,191)
Purchase of non-controlling interests (588) (14) –
Increase in long-term loans 1,913 4,430 –
Increase in short-term loans – 1,743 45
Repayment of short-term loans (1,872) (2,559) (8)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (31) (35) (38)
Interest paid (749) (779) (769)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,680) (3,814) (3,406)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (238) (171) (234)
Other financing cash flows (64) (36) 110
Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,273) (3,351) (6,232)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 37 1,473 (1,607) (94)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,906 5,605 5,807
Exchange adjustments (148) (92) (108)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,473 (1,607) (94)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 5,231 3,906 5,605
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 5,534 4,184 5,714
Overdrafts (303) (278) (109 )
5,231 3,906 5,605
GSK Annual Report 2013 135Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
1 Presentation of the financial statements Implementation of new accounting standards
An amendment to IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ was issued in
Description of business June 2011 and was implemented by GSK from 1 January 2013.
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is The amendment eliminates the ability to defer the recognition of
engaged in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture gains and losses (the ‘corridor’ method), requires remeasurements
and marketing of pharmaceutical products including vaccines, to be presented in other comprehensive income, requires past
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer service cost to be recognised in the income statement in the year
products. GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include of the plan amendment rather than deferring the portion related to
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals, unvested benefits, requires the return on plan assets recognised in
central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, the income statement to be calculated using the same rate as the
anti-bacterials, oncology and emesis, dermatology, rare diseases, discount rate applied to the pension obligation and makes several
immuno-inflammation, vaccines and HIV. other minor accounting and disclosure changes.
The revised Standard increased the pension charge in 2013 by
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
approximately £160 million. Comparative periods have been
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with restated and as a result the pension charge for 2012 has increased
the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and by £92 million and for 2011 by £73 million.
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial
In addition, the following new or amended accounting standards
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, as adopted
have been implemented in 2013. These had no material impact on
by the European Union.
the current period:
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued
• IFRS 10 ‘Consolidated financial statements’
by the International Accounting Standards Board.
• IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’
Composition of financial statements
• IFRS 12 ‘Disclosures of interests in other entities’
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, the
functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance with • IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’
IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements comprise: • IAS 1 ‘Presentation of items of other comprehensive income’
• Consolidated income statement • IAS 28 ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’
• Consolidated statement of comprehensive income • IFRS 7 ‘Disclosures – Offsetting financial assets and financial
• Consolidated balance sheet liabilities’.
• Consolidated statement of changes in equity The Group has also adopted early an amendment to IAS 36
‘Impairment of Assets’ in relation to recoverable amount disclosures
• Consolidated cash flow statement
for non-financial assets, with effect from 1 January 2013.
• Notes to the financial statements.
Financial period
Composition of the Group These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the 31 December 2013, with comparative figures for the financial years
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or from 1 January to 31 December 2012 and, where appropriate, from
the net assets of the Group is given in Note 43, ‘Principal Group 1 January to 31 December 2011.
companies’.
Parent company financial statements
Accounting principles and policies The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline plc,
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented
stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis. on page 213 and the accounting policies are given on page 214.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 2 Accounting principles and policies
the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. Information
Consolidation
on the application of these accounting policies, including areas of
estimation and judgement is given in Note 3, ‘Key accounting The consolidated financial statements include:
judgements and estimates’. • the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
generally accepted accounting principles requires management • the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates and
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts joint ventures
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
• the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
joint operations.
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates. The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to
31 December each year.
136 GSK Annual Report 20132 Accounting principles and policies continued On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, of
overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The
activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for ventures are translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange.
as subsidiaries. Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the
control over, and rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are
profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and
accounted for as joint ventures. Where the Group has the ability to
joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences
exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified
arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the
assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the arrangement,
Group’s net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate
the arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation. Where the
component of equity.
Group has the ability to exercise significant influence over entities,
they are accounted for as associates. The results and assets and When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash
liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which
consolidated financial statements using the equity method of are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
accounting. The Group’s rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
expenses of joint operations are included in the consolidated Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated
financial statements in accordance with those rights and obligations. income statement.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
Revenue
Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated from
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
the date control ceases.
services are supplied or made available to external customers against
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the customer,
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions and all relevant
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings process is
The relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, regarded as being complete.
joint operations and associates is also deferred until the products
Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of discounts
are sold to third parties. Transactions with non-controlling interests
and allowances given and accruals for estimated future rebates and
are recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax relief on unrealised
returns. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates
intra-Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is
and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of
considered recoverable.
contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and projected market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated
and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research data
associates. Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation and internally generated information. Value added tax and other sales
acquired. taxes are excluded from revenue.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-
statement. promotion income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion
activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
Business combinations
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of £37
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition million (2012 – £234 million; 2011 – £221 million). In addition, initial
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent or event-based milestone income (excluding royalty income) arising
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date. on development or marketing collaborations of the Group’s
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and includes compounds or products with other parties is recognised in turnover.
the fair value of any contingent consideration. Where the Milestone income of £78 million is included in turnover in 2013.
consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling interest,
Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance
exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and contingent
with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill. The costs
of acquisition are charged to the income statement in the period
Expenditure
in which they are incurred.
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non- when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the non- made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary, on a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership percentage estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and the
of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity. achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred.
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income
Foreign currency translation
statement as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-company transfers
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers
of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are included in the
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
income statement.
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected
has been undertaken.
GSK Annual Report 2013 137Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting principles and policies continued Employee share plans
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
Research and development share option and share award schemes.
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and charged
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares
and equipment used for research and development is capitalised
when employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running
and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy.
the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held
Environmental expenditure by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer is
made between other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
periods of the related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate
from past or current operations and from which no current or future
proceeds receivable from employees on exercise.
benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. The Group
recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably
Property, plant and equipment
estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total costs
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’ costs when
purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and
it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of reimbursements
qualifying assets in construction.
are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value
Legal and other disputes of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed, and
other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources is where appropriate adjusted, annually. The normal expected useful
considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or other expenses
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
arising from claims received or other disputes. In respect of product
Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
liability claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
of claims made and settlements to enable management to make a
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
In certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation
technique is used to determine this estimate.
and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected
financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of Leases
the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all
cases would be included but no provision would be made. Costs the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance
associated with claims made by the Group against third parties leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The assets are
are charged to the income statement as they are incurred. included in PP&E or computer software and the capital elements
of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance
Pensions and other post-employment benefits leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the statement. All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs
employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified actuaries. are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated the lease term.
future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of high
quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets are measured Goodwill
at fair value at the balance sheet date. Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed
to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at least
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a
annually.
similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of qualified liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
actuaries. this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income
statement.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial
assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive
income in the year in which they arise.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are
charged to the income statement as incurred.
138 GSK Annual Report 20132 Accounting principles and policies continued Available-for-sale investments
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as available-
Other intangible assets for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting
and impairments. dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale
investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are amortised
value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the asset
over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding 20 years,
directly and are charged to the income statement.
using the straight-line basis, from the time they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation charge On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and losses
take into account patent lives, where applicable, as well as the value that have been deferred in other comprehensive income are
obtained from periods of non-exclusivity. Asset lives are reviewed, reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity investments
and where appropriate adjusted, annually. Contingent milestone are recognised in the income statement when the Group’s right to
payments are recognised at the point that the contingent event receive payment is established. Equity investments are recorded in
becomes certain. Any development costs incurred by the Group and non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one
associated with acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing year.
rights are written off to the income statement when incurred, unless Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on
the criteria for recognition of an internally generated intangible asset the trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major investments are accounted for on settlement date.
market and approval is considered highly probable.
Inventories
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of
value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and
either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately related production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is
from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch inventory
over their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where is held as an asset when there is a high probability of regulatory
it is considered that the useful economic life is indefinite. approval for the product. Before that point a provision is made against
the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the provision is then
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal
reversed at the point when a high probability of regulatory approval is
use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible
determined.
fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant
business system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a Trade receivables
durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised over seven to
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
ten years and other computer software over three to five years.
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is
evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
Impairment of non-current assets
previous experience and general economic conditions. When a trade
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for
receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger cash
against any provision available and then to the income statement.
generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets might
be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for impairment discounted where the effect is material.
is charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
Trade payables
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and then held at
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a
amortised cost which equates to nominal value. Long-term payables
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and
are discounted where the effect is material.
only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do not exceed
the carrying values that would have existed, net of depreciation or Cash and cash equivalents
amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances
with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments with
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint operations
maturities of three months or less. They are readily convertible into
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
known amounts of cash and have an insignificant risk of changes in
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net assets
value.
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits
or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. Borrowings
The Group recognises its rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
expenses of joint operations.
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds,
net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being
recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of
the relevant borrowing.
GSK Annual Report 2013 139Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
2 Accounting principles and policies continued 3 Key accounting judgements and estimates
In preparing the financial statements, management is required
Taxation
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from those
balance sheet date.
estimates. The following are considered to be the key accounting
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on judgements and estimates made.
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Turnover
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the
that future taxable profits will be available against which the customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions
temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the
temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, earnings process is regarded as being complete.
associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances
of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that
and product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by
the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements with
Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been enacted
purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale. Accruals
are made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts
Derivative financial instruments and hedging
or allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
market information and historical experience.
market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK are
foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps and forward foreign Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
exchange contracts. The Group does not hold or issue derivative final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product
sales mix.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading
and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the light of
designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience
as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges. and projected market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated
using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
data and internally generated information. Future events could
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent
cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change,
that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are recognised in
which could affect the future results of the Group.
profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in other comprehensive
income are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged Taxation
item affects profit or loss.
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the tax
flow hedges. bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at the
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
balance sheet date.
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable profits will be available against which the
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do
temporary differences can be utilised, based on management’s
not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in
assumptions relating to the amounts and timing of future taxable
the income statement.
profits. Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out
Discounting in Note 14, ‘Taxation’. A 1% change in the Group’s effective tax rate
in 2013 would have changed the total tax charge for the year by
Where the time effect of money is material, balances are discounted
approximately £66 million.
to current values using appropriate rates of interest. The unwinding
of the discounts is recorded in finance income and finance expense. The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
authorities. Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable
and a reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made,
management provides for its best estimate of the liability. These
estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each
dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgemental and
could change substantially over time as new facts emerge and each
dispute progresses. Details relating to significant unresolved
disputes are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’. GSK continues to believe
that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise
from open assessments. Where open issues exist the ultimate
liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant tax
authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
140 GSK Annual Report 20133 K ey accounting judgements and estimates Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
continued
benefits are charged to the income statement in accordance with
IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’ over the period during which benefit
Legal and other disputes
is derived from the employee’s services. The costs are assessed
The Group provides for anticipated settlement costs where an
on the basis of assumptions selected by management. These
outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate
assumptions include future earnings and pension increases,
may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and
discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on assets and
other expenses arising from claims against the Group. These
mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other
estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each
post-employment benefits’.
dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgmental and
could change substantially over time as new facts emerge and each The expected long-term rates of return on bonds are determined
dispute progresses. Details of the status and various uncertainties based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and
involved in the significant unresolved disputes are set out in Note corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added to this for
44, ‘Legal proceedings’. equities.
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
established provisions after taking into account the relevant except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with bonds where government bond yields are used. Sensitivity analysis
accounting requirements. In respect of product liability claims is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
related to certain products there is sufficient history of claims made benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to
and settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate an increase in the net pension deficit of approximately £554 million
of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. The Group and an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately £32
may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of which it million. The selection of different assumptions could affect the
is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial future results of the Group.
effect, if any, that will result from ultimate resolution of the
proceedings. In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such
cases would be included, but no provision would be made and
no contingent liability can be quantified. At 31 December 2013
provisions for legal and other disputes amounted to £0.6 billion
(2012 – £0.5 billion).
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no
assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal
proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported
in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount.
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairments
Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite life and so is not
amortised. Annual impairment tests of the cash generating units
to which goodwill is allocated are performed. Impairment tests are
based on established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash
flows discounted using appropriate interest rates. The assumptions
used in these impairment tests are set out in Note 18, ‘Goodwill’.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that
a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to
result in an impairment of the related goodwill.
Impairment tests on other intangible assets are undertaken if
events occur which call into question the carrying values of the
assets. Where brands are not amortised, they are subject to annual
impairment tests. Valuations for impairment tests are based on
established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows
over the estimated useful life of the asset, where limited, discounted
using appropriate interest rates as set out in Note 19, ‘Other
intangible assets’.
The assumptions relating to future cash flows, estimated useful
lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and are
therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause the
assumptions used in these impairment tests to change with a
consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2013 141Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
4 New accounting requirements 5 Exchange rates
The following new and amended accounting standards have been The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
issued by the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports, the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
although, in their current forms, none is expected to have a material subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings into
impact on the results or financial position of the Group. Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those
undertakings. The currencies which most influence these
An amendment to IAS 32 ‘Offsetting financial assets and financial
translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
liabilities’ was issued in December 2011 and will be implemented
by the Group from 1 January 2014. The amendment provides
2013 2012 2011
additional guidance on when financial assets and financial liabilities
Average rates:
may be offset.
US$/£ 1.57 1.59 1.61
IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ was first issued in November Euro/£ 1.18 1.23 1.15
2009 and has since been amended several times. The Standard Yen/£ 153 127 128
will eventually replace IAS 39 and covers the classification,
measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial Period end rates:
liabilities together with a new hedge accounting model. The IASB US$/£ 1.66 1.63 1.55
intends to expand IFRS 9 to add new requirements for impairment Euro/£ 1.20 1.23 1.20
and for it to become a complete replacement of IAS 39 in due Yen/£ 174 141 120
course, although no date for its mandatory implementation has
been set.
An amendment to IAS 19 ‘Defined benefit plans: Employee
contribution’ was issued in November 2013 and will be implemented
by the Group from 1 January 2015. The amendment provides
additional guidance on the treatment of contributions to defined
benefit plans from employees and third parties.
142 GSK Annual Report 20136 Segment information
The Group’s operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the
responsibilities of the Corporate Executive Team (CET). Individual members of the CET are responsible for each geographic segment of
the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business, ViiV Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare business as a whole, respectively. Several
minor product reclassifications between the Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare segments have been made with effect from 1
January 2013. In addition, an amendment to IAS 19, ‘Employee benefits’ has been adopted in 2013. See Note 1, ‘Presentation of the
financial statements’ for more details. Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
R&D investment is essential for the sustainability of the pharmaceutical businesses. However, for segment reporting, the US, Europe,
Emerging Markets Asia Pacific and Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines operating profits exclude allocations of globally funded R&D as
well as central costs, principally corporate functions and unallocated manufacturing costs. The Group’s management reporting process
allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is recorded, and the profit analyses below have been
presented on that basis.
Other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals and vaccines includes Canada, Puerto Rico, Australasia, central vaccine tender sales
and contract manufacturing sales, together with costs such as vaccines R&D, central dermatology costs and central manufacturing costs
not attributed to other segments.
The Pharmaceuticals R&D segment is the responsibility of the Chairman, Research & Development and is reported as a separate
segment.
Corporate and other unallocated costs represent the costs of corporate functions.
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 7,192 7,000 7,022
Europe 5,166 5,001 5,700
EMAP 4,698 4,721 4,441
Japan 1,657 1,969 2,082
ViiV Healthcare 1,386 1,374 1,569
Other trading and unallocated 1,219 1,196 1,255
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 21,318 21,261 22,069
Consumer Healthcare turnover 5,187 5,170 5,318
26,505 26,431 27,387
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 7,516 7,291 7,298
Anti-virals 667 753 842
Central nervous system 1,483 1,670 1,721
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,239 2,431 2,454
Metabolic 174 171 331
Anti-bacterials 1,239 1,247 1,390
Oncology and emesis 969 798 683
Dermatology 770 850 898
Rare diseases 495 495 463
Immuno-inflammation 161 70 15
Other pharmaceuticals 799 786 908
Vaccines 3,420 3,325 3,497
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,386 1,374 1,569
21,318 21,261 22,069
GSK Annual Report 2013 143Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information continued
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category £m £m £m
Total wellness 1,935 2,057 2,310
Oral care 1,884 1,806 1,722
Nutrition 1,096 1,050 1,025
Skin health 272 257 261
5,187 5,170 5,318
During 2013, US Pharmaceuticals and ViiV Healthcare made sales to three wholesalers of approximately £2,071 million (2012 – £2,303
million; 2011 – £2,360 million), £2,658 million (2012 – £2,447 million; 2011 – £2,215 million) and £1,695 million (2012 – £1,318 million;
2011 – £1,374 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.
2012 2011
Segment profit 2013 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 4,993 4,786 4,646
Europe 2,829 2,629 3,154
EMAP 1,468 1,560 1,476
Japan 978 1,179 1,249
ViiV Healthcare 885 849 882
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,823) (2,778) (2,801)
Other trading and unallocated costs (601) (404) (311)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines operating profit 7,729 7,821 8,295
Consumer Healthcare operating profit 913 908 1,128
Segment profit 8,642 8,729 9,423
Corporate and other unallocated costs (627) (491) (693)
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (987) (938) (996)
Operating profit 7,028 7,300 7,734
Finance income 61 79 90
Finance costs (767) (808) (799)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 282 – 585
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 43 29 15
Profit before taxation 6,647 6,600 7,625
Taxation (1,019) (1,922) (2,220)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,628 4,678 5,405
2012 2011
Depreciation and amortisation by segment 2013 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 14 16 31
Europe 21 24 29
EMAP 30 28 34
Japan 6 7 7
ViiV Healthcare 2 2 4
Pharmaceuticals R&D 171 178 180
Other trading and unallocated costs 436 478 465
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines depreciation and amortisation 680 733 750
Consumer Healthcare depreciation and amortisation 74 127 133
Segment depreciation and amortisation 754 860 883
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 109 108 99
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and
total depreciation and amortisation 551 477 441
Total depreciation and amortisation 1,414 1,445 1,423
144 GSK Annual Report 20136 Segment information continued
2012 2011
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment 2013 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 1 1 1
Europe 2 1 1
EMAP 1 1 –
Japan – – 1
ViiV Healthcare – – 1
Pharmaceuticals R&D 22 2 2
Other trading and unallocated costs 33 30 43
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines impairment 59 35 49
Consumer Healthcare impairment 11 1 5
Segment impairment 70 36 54
Corporate and other unallocated impairment – 18 9
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 799 700 240
Total impairment 869 754 303
2012 2011
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment 2013 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA – – –
Europe (2) – –
EMAP – – –
Japan – – –
ViiV Healthcare – – –
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2) (4) (3)
Other trading and unallocated costs (16) (60) (32)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines impairment reversals (20) (64) (35)
Consumer Healthcare impairment reversals (4) – –
Segment impairment reversals (24) (64) (35)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals – (3) –
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals – (59) –
Total impairment reversals (24) (126) (35)
GSK Annual Report 2013 145Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
6 Segment information continued
2012
2013 (restated)
Net assets by segment £m £m
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
USA 157 515
Europe 892 887
EMAP 2,097 2,323
Japan 362 409
ViiV Healthcare 1,267 1,529
Pharmaceuticals R&D 590 650
Other trading and unallocated assets 14,465 13,943
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines net operating assets 19,830 20,256
Consumer Healthcare net operating assets 2,856 3,045
Segment net operating assets 22,686 23,301
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets (2,647) (3,324)
Net operating assets 20,039 19,977
Net debt (12,645) (14,037)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 323 579
Derivative financial instruments 26 38
Current and deferred taxation 68 116
Assets held for sale 1 64
Net assets 7,812 6,737
The other trading and unallocated Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare segments include assets for the centrally managed
Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare manufacturing operations, the depreciation on which, totalling £518 million
(2012 – £601 million; 2011 – £599 million) is recovered through the standard cost of product charged to businesses.
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 1,541 1,525 1,612
USA 8,730 8,476 8,696
Rest of World 16,234 16,430 17,079
External turnover 26,505 26,431 27,387
2013 2012 2011
Turnover by location of subsidiary
£m £m £m
UK 4,174 3,738 3,850
USA 11,684 11,250 11,797
Rest of World 18,515 19,719 20,986
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 34,373 34,707 36,633
UK 1,772 1,508 1,557
USA 3,026 2,886 3,140
Rest of World 3,070 3,882 4,549
Inter-segment turnover 7,868 8,276 9,246
UK 2,402 2,230 2,293
USA 8,658 8,364 8,657
Rest of World 15,445 15,837 16,437
External turnover 26,505 26,431 27,387
146 GSK Annual Report 20136 Segment information continued
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Operating profit by location £m £m £m
UK 568 1,454 1,014
USA 3,063 1,391 3,274
Rest of World 3,397 4,455 3,446
Total operating profit 7,028 7,300 7,734
2012
2013
(restated)
Net operating assets by location £m
£m
UK 6,314 2,686
USA 3,975 5,635
Rest of World 9,750 11,656
Net operating assets 20,039 19,977
2012
2013 (restated)
Non-current assets by location
£m £m
UK 6,565 6,888
USA 6,675 7,312
Rest of World 9,607 9,875
Non-current assets 22,847 24,075
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments,
pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.
7 Other operating income
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Impairment of equity investments (70) (26) (78)
Disposal of equity investments 38 19 10
Disposal of businesses and assets and legal settlements 1,413 661 322
Gain on settlement of pre-existing collaborations on acquisition of HGS – 233 –
Gain on acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture – 349 –
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration
recognised in business combinations (251) (13) –
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments 12 3 10
Other (expense)/income (18) 30 14
1,124 1,256 278
Disposal of businesses, other assets and legal settlements in 2013 includes the gain on disposal of the Lucozade and Ribena business
to Suntory of £1,057 million and the gain on the sale of the worldwide intellectual property rights (excluding certain EMAP markets) of the
anti-coagulant products business to Aspen Group of £274 million. Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in
business combinations arose principally on the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare
joint venture.
GSK Annual Report 2013 147Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
8 Operating profit
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 7,591 6,935 6,824
Advertising 808 839 910
Distribution costs 371 386 432
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 732 871 893
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 100 (68) 155
Amortisation of intangible assets 682 574 530
Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, net of reversals 745 696 113
Net foreign exchange losses 41 61 25
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 7,290 6,851 6,793
Write-down of inventories 338 302 85
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (43) (61) (62)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 127 156 139
Contingent rents 12 14 11
Sub-lease payments 2 3 4
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 24.9 23.2 23.7
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
Included within operating profit are major restructuring charges of £517 million (2012 – £557 million; 2011 – £590 million), see Note 10,
‘Major restructuring costs’.
2013 2012 2011
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 4.6 3.9 3.7
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 10.6 10.1 10.2
Audit-related assurance services, including attestation under s.404
of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 3.9 3.3 3.4
Audit and audit-related services 19.1 17.3 17.3
Taxation compliance 0.6 0.4 0.2
Taxation advice 3.3 3.2 2.5
Other assurance services 1.5 1.7 2.8
All other services 0.4 0.6 0.9
24.9 23.2 23.7
In addition to the above, fees paid in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Audit 0.4 0.6 0.4
Other services – – –
148 GSK Annual Report 20139 Employee costs
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 6,262 5,846 5,312
Social security costs 685 643 641
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 170 95 414
Cost of share-based incentive plans 319 220 198
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 155 131 259
7,591 6,935 6,824
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The charge for pension and other post-employment costs in 2013 includes a credit of £279 million following a restructuring of US
post-retirement medical obligations. The charge in 2012 includes a credit of £395 million following a change in policy relating to
discretionary pension increases under certain UK pension schemes and the introduction of a limit on future pensionable pay increases
in all UK schemes. These are set out in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 243 156 146
Performance Share Plan 47 45 23
Share option plans 4 11 20
Other plans 25 8 9
319 220 198
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2013 2012 2011
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 31,586 31,033 30,939
Selling, general and administration 55,660 54,803 53,826
Research and development 12,571 12,845 12,636
99,817 98,681 97,401
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of each
financial year are given in the financial record on page 224. The average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2013 was
nil (2012 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 23 20 24
Social security costs 3 2 2
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 13 13 11
42 38 40
GSK Annual Report 2013 149Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
10 Major restructuring costs
Major restructuring costs charged in arriving at operating profit include restructuring costs arising under the Operational Excellence
programme, initiated in 2007 and expanded in 2009, 2010 and 2011, under the Major Change programme initiated in 2013, following the
acquisition of Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (HGS) in August 2012 and following the acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in July 2009.
Of the total restructuring costs of £517 million incurred in 2013, £223 million was incurred under the Operational Excellence programme and
£260 million under the Major Change programme in the following areas:
• Restructuring of the Pharmaceuticals business in Europe leading to staff reductions in sales force and administration.
• Projects to rationalise Core Business Services and to simplify or eliminate processes leading to staff reduction in support functions.
• Transformation of the Manufacturing and Vaccines businesses to deliver a step change in quality, cost and productivity.
• The rationalisation of the Consumer Healthcare business.
Costs of £19 million were incurred under the restructuring programme related to the integration of HGS. The remaining costs of
£15 million were incurred under the restructuring programme related to the integration of the Stiefel business.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes is as follows:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) (179) (268) (249)
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) 11 12 11
Impairment losses recognised (60) (7) (131)
Other non-cash charges (5) (18) (48)
Other cash costs (284) (276) (173)
(517) (557) (590)
Asset impairments of £60 million (2012 – £7 million; 2011 – £131 million) and other non-cash charges totalling £5 million
(2012 – £18 million; 2011 – £48 million) are non-cash items, principally accelerated depreciation where asset lives have been shortened
as a result of the major restructuring programmes. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and include the termination of
leases, site closure costs, consultancy and project management fees.
11 Finance income
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
cash and cash equivalents 55 59 63
available-for-sale investments 2 5 7
loans and receivables 2 9 15
Realised gains on liquid investments – 4 5
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 2 2 –
61 79 90
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39.
150 GSK Annual Report 201312 Finance expense
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
financial liabilities at amortised cost (708) (731) (718)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (18) (14) (26)
Fair value hedges:
fair value movements on derivatives designated as hedging instruments (37) (28) (12)
fair value adjustments on hedged items 36 27 11
Fair value movements on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (2) (13) (15)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (14) (15) (12)
Movements on amounts owed to non-controlling interests (2) (10) (7)
Other finance expense (22) (24) (20)
(767) (808) (799)
All derivatives at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 41, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest expense arising on
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense.
13 Associates and joint ventures
At 31 December 2013, the Group held one significant associate, Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (Aspen). Summarised income
statement information in respect of Aspen is set out below:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Turnover 1,485 1,280 1,164
Profit after taxation 247 313 216
Comprehensive income 192 163 (44)
Total comprehensive income 439 476 172
The results of Aspen included in the summarised income statement information above represent the estimated earnings of the Aspen group in
the year, adjusted for transactions between GSK and Aspen.
Amounts relating to joint ventures principally arise from a 50% interest in one joint venture, Japan Vaccine Co., Ltd., with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd.
Aggregated financial information in respect of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Associates:
Share of turnover 26 27 110
Share of after tax profits – 1 5
Share of other comprehensive income – – –
Share of total comprehensive income – 1 5
Joint ventures:
Share of turnover 199 203 14
Share of after tax losses (2) (30) (31)
Share of other comprehensive income – – –
Share of total comprehensive income (2) (30) (31)
Sales to joint ventures and associates 103 124 104
GSK Annual Report 2013 151Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
14 Taxation
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 265 350 632
Less double taxation relief – (180) (164)
265 170 468
Overseas taxation 1,284 1,510 1,598
Current taxation 1,549 1,680 2,066
Deferred taxation (530) 242 154
1,019 1,922 2,220
The deferred tax credit in 2013 arises predominantly as a result of non cash items related to the continuing restructuring of our supply chain
and intellectual property ownership.
2013 2012 2011
Reconciliation of the taxation rate on Group profits % % %
UK statutory rate of taxation 23.3 24.5 26.5
Differences in overseas taxation rates 6.5 4.2 2.5
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (2.8) (2.4) (2.1)
R&D credits (1.3) (1.1) (1.6)
Inter-company stock profit (1.8) 1.1 (0.7)
Impact of share-based payments – – (0.2)
Reduction in tax rate for unrecognised losses (0.3) (0.6) (0.4)
Other permanent differences 1.0 (1.1) 0.4
Re-assessments of prior year estimates (3.0) (2.2) 1.7
Disposal of associate (1.0) – 1.7
Tax on unremitted earnings 0.3 0.4 1.1
Restructuring (5.6) 6.3 0.2
Tax rate 15.3 29.1 29.1
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UK tax rate. The impact of these overseas taxes on the overall rate of tax is
shown above.
The Group is required under IFRS to create a deferred tax asset in respect of unrealised inter-company profit arising on inventory held by the
Group at the year-end by applying the tax rate of the country in which the inventory is held (rather than the tax rate of the country where the
profit was originally made and the tax paid, which is the practice under UK and US GAAP). As a result of this difference in accounting
treatment the Group tax rate on current period inter-company profit under IFRS reduced by 1.8% in 2013 (2012 – 1.1% increase; 2011 –
0.7% decrease) arising from changes in the location of work-in-progress and finished goods.
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share based payments 31 34 3
31 34 3
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments 42 (25) 47
Defined benefit plans (286) 193 243
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 1 – –
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (22) – 23
(265) 168 313
Total (charge)/credit to equity and statement of comprehensive income (234) 202 316
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments.
152 GSK Annual Report 201314 Taxation continued
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a limited
number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. This gives rise to complexity and delay in
negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Resolution of such issues is an
ongoing requirement for GSK.
The Group continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from periods which are open and not yet
agreed by tax authorities. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
agreements with relevant tax authorities or litigation where appropriate.
The aggregate amount of unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £14 billion (2012 – £18 billion). UK legislation
relating to company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions. Provision for
deferred tax liabilities of £129 million (2012 – £109 million) have been made in respect of withholding taxation that would arise on the
distribution of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. The unprovided deferred tax on unremitted earnings at 31 December 2013 is estimated
to be £500 million (2012 – £500 million), which relates to taxes payable on repatriation levied by overseas tax jurisdictions. No further
provision is made on the grounds that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the remaining temporary differences and it is
probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions &
other post Manu- Share Other
Accelerated Intra- employment Legal facturing Stock option net Offset
capital group benefits Tax & other restruct- valuation and award temporary within Total
allowances Intangibles profit (restated) losses disputes uring adjustments schemes differences countries (restated)
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Deferred tax assets as
previously reported – 726 1,079 1,163 245 215 63 47 132 1,341 (2,626) 2,385
Prior year adjustment -
IAS 19R – – – 6 – – – – – – – 6
Deferred tax assets at
1 January 2013 – 726 1,079 1,169 245 215 63 47 132 1,341 (2,626) 2,391
Deferred tax liabilities at
1 January 2013 (523) (2,591) – – – (87) (4) (82) – (343) 2,626 (1,004)
At 1 January 2013 (523) (1,865) 1,079 1,169 245 128 59 (35) 132 998 – 1,387
Exchange adjustments (1) 16 (81) (5) (4) – 2 2 (5) (74) – (150)
Credit/(charge) to income
statement 92 705 (357) (88) (129) (37) 6 (16) 20 334 – 530
Credit to equity – – – – – – – – 42 – – 42
Charge to other
comprehensive income – – – (286) – – – – – (21) – (307)
Acquisitions – (23) – – – – – – – – – (23)
Transfer to current tax – – – (12) – – – – – (76) – (88)
At 31 December 2013 (432) (1,167) 641 778 112 91 67 (49) 189 1,161 – 1,391
Deferred tax assets at
31 December 2013 47 634 641 778 112 91 67 53 189 1,369 (1,897) 2,084
Deferred tax liabilities at
31 December 2013 (479) (1,801) – – – – – (102) – (208) 1,897 (693)
(432) (1,167) 641 778 112 91 67 (49) 189 1,161 – 1,391
The deferred tax charge to income relating to changes in tax rates is £18 million (2012 – £52 million deferred tax credit, 2011 – £11 million
deferred tax credit). All other deferred tax movements arise from the origination and reversal of temporary differences. Other net temporary
differences mainly include accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis.
GSK Annual Report 2013 153Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
14 Taxation continued
Tax losses Recognised Unrecognised
2013 2012 2013 2012
£m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 151 190 131 150
In more than 10 years 75 421 680 549
Available indefinitely 175 237 3,908 4,053
At 31 December 401 848 4,719 4,752
Deferred tax asset 112 245 – –
In addition, the Group had capital losses of approximately £3.2 billion in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.
Factors affecting the tax charge in future years
As a global organisation there are many factors which could affect the future effective tax rate of the Group. The mix of profits across
different territories, transfer pricing and other disputes with tax authorities and the location of research and development activity can all
have a significant impact on the Group’s effective tax rate.
Changes to tax legislation in territories where the Group has business operations could also impact the Group’s effective tax rate.
In December 2012, the UK Government announced that as part of the ongoing phased reduction in the main rate of corporation tax,
the main rate will reduce to 21% with effect from April 2014. In March 2013, a further reduction in the main rate of corporation tax to 20%
was announced which will take effect from 1 April 2015. The deferred tax movements reflect the reduction in the UK tax rate from 23% to
21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015, as these have been substantively enacted.
15 Earnings per share
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 112.5 91.6 103.6
Diluted earnings per share 110.5 90.2 102.1
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of shares
in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived their rights to
dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation to
assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where its
exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions attaching to the
scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2013 2012 2011
Weighted average number of shares in issue
millions millions millions
Basic 4,831 4,912 5,028
Dilution for share options and awards 88 77 71
Diluted 4,919 4,989 5,099
154 GSK Annual Report 201316 Dividends
2013 2012 2011
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid/payable (pence) £m
First interim 11 July 2013 18 878 5 July 2012 17 846 7 July 2011 16 814
Second interim 3 October 2013 18 864 4 October 2012 17 830 6 October 2011 16 809
Third interim 9 January 2014 19 910 3 January 2013 18 870 5 January 2012 17 847
Fourth interim 10 April 2014 23 1,102 11 April 2013 22 1,068 12 April 2012 21 1,043
Annual total 78 3,754 74 3,614 70 3,513
Supplemental 12 April 2012 5 248
Total 78 3,754 74 3,614 75 3,761
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a dividend
two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2013 financial statements recognise those dividends
paid in 2013, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2012, and the first and second interim dividends for 2013.
The amounts recognised in each year are as follows:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,680 3,814 3,406
17 Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2012 6,351 10,389 2,092 18,832
Exchange adjustments (186) (239) (57) (482)
Additions 85 209 871 1,165
Additions through business combinations 18 15 – 33
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 9 9
Disposals and write-offs (250) (630) (3) (883)
Reclassifications 533 376 (977) (68)
Transfer from assets held for sale 81 49 6 136
Cost at 31 December 2012 6,632 10,169 1,941 18,742
Exchange adjustments (68) (105) (29) (202)
Additions 57 230 948 1,235
Additions through business combinations 12 11 – 23
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 16 16
Disposals and write-offs (77) (516) (2) (595)
Reclassifications 107 233 (340) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (53) (296) (17) (366)
Cost at 31 December 2013 6,610 9,726 2,517 18,853
GSK Annual Report 2013 155Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
17 Property, plant and equipment continued
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Depreciation at 1 January 2012 (2,396) (7,041) – (9,437)
Exchange adjustments 73 164 – 237
Charge for the year (228) (643) – (871)
Disposals and write-offs 150 491 – 641
Transfer from assets held for sale (36) (20) – (56)
Depreciation at 31 December 2012 (2,437) (7,049) – (9,486)
Exchange adjustments 38 80 – 118
Charge for the year (214) (518) – (732)
Disposals and write-offs 51 422 – 473
Transfer to assets held for sale 20 139 – 159
Depreciation at 31 December 2013 (2,542) (6,926) – (9,468)
Impairment at 1 January 2012 (138) (443) (66) (647)
Exchange adjustments 3 9 2 14
Disposals and write-offs 21 103 1 125
Impairment losses (18) (38) (2) (58)
Reversal of impairments 19 104 3 126
Transfer from assets held for sale (39) (1) – (40)
Impairment at 31 December 2012 (152) (266) (62) (480)
Exchange adjustments 1 8 – 9
Disposals and write-offs 14 44 – 58
Impairment losses (23) (100) (1) (124)
Reversal of impairments 2 22 – 24
Transfer (from)/to assets held for sale (1) 1 – –
Impairment at 31 December 2013 (159) (291) (63) (513)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2012 (2,589) (7,315) (62) (9,966)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2013 (2,701) (7,217) (63) (9,981)
Net book value at 1 January 2012 3,817 2,905 2,026 8,748
Net book value at 31 December 2012 4,043 2,854 1,879 8,776
Net book value at 31 December 2013 3,909 2,509 2,454 8,872
The net book value at 31 December 2013 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £3,478 million (2012 – £3,611
million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £366 million (2012 – £376 million) and properties with leases of less than 50 years
£65 million (2012 – £56 million).
Included in land and buildings at 31 December 2013 are leased assets with a cost of £784 million (2012 – £766 million), accumulated
depreciation of £313 million (2012 – £315 million), impairment of £40 million (2012 – £19 million) and a net book value of £431 million
(2012 – £432 million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31 December 2013 are leased assets with a cost of £99 million
(2012 – £110 million), accumulated depreciation of £47 million (2012 – £55 million), impairment of £10 million (2012 – £nil) and a net
book value of £42 million (2012 – £55 million). Some lease agreements include renewal or purchase options or escalation clauses.
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs of
disposal or value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable
market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations determine the net
present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a discount rate of
the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for relevant specific risks. For value in use
calculations, where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially different result, the test
would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate
of approximately 10%. The impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales £32 million (2012 – £25 million), R&D £14 million
(2012 – £9 million) and SG&A £78 million (2012 – £24 million), and include £62 million (2012 – £7 million) arising from the major
restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arise from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments are deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
The carrying value at 31 December 2013 of assets for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year was £6 million
(2012 – £44 million).
156 GSK Annual Report 201318 Goodwill
2013 2012
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 4,359 3,754
Exchange adjustments (134) (177)
Additions through business combinations (Note 38) 53 873
Transfer to assets held for sale (55) –
Movements in contingent consideration balances (18) (91)
Cost at 31 December 4,205 4,359
Net book value at 1 January 4,359 3,754
Net book value at 31 December 4,205 4,359
The movement in the contingent consideration balance mainly arises in respect of the acquisition of Pfizer Inc’s HIV business on 14 April
2009.
The carrying value of goodwill, translated at year-end exchange rates, is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the following
businesses:
2013 2012
Cash generating unit £m £m
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. US, Europe, EMAP 832 845
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. US, Europe, EMAP, Japan, Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 778 779
Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc. US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 421 429
ID Biomedical Corporation US, Europe, EMAP, Japan, Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 409 444
Sirtris Pharmaceuticals, Inc. US, Europe, EMAP, Japan, Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 285 291
Domantis Limited US, Europe, EMAP, Japan, Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 181 181
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 179 221
CNS, Inc. Consumer Healthcare 133 135
Pfizer HIV business ViiV Healthcare 129 152
Maxinutrition Group
Holdings Limited Consumer Healthcare 114 114
Polfa Poznan S.A. Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 109 109
Certain businesses from UCB S.A. EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 87 88
NovaMin Technology, Inc. Consumer Healthcare 51 50
Others 497 521
4,205 4,359
The goodwill arising on the acquisition of Stiefel has been allocated to the US, Europe and EMAP cash generating units for impairment testing
purposes as the benefits of the acquired business are split between these cash generating units.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions of Human Genome Sciences, ID Biomedical, Sirtris Pharmaceuticals and Domantis has been split
between the US, Europe, EMAP, Japan and Other Pharmaceutical and Vaccines cash generating units for impairment testing purposes as either
the benefit of the acquired businesses is split between these cash generating units or the acquired businesses do not generate independent
cash flows.
The total of goodwill allocated to US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines amounted to £2,013 million (2012 – £1,878 million). The amounts allocated
to the other cash generating units were not significant relative to the total balance.
GSK Annual Report 2013 157Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
18 Goodwill continued
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using either a fair value less costs of disposal model or a value in use
model. Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the cash
generating unit to which the goodwill is allocated. Initially a post-tax discount rate is applied to calculate the net present value of the post-tax
cash flows. The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7%, as most cash generating units have integrated operations across
large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific country or currency risks.
Fair value less costs of disposal is calculated using a similar discounted cash flow approach. A post-tax discount rate is applied to the
projected risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value. The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on
observable market data, therefore, this valuation technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each region
Period of specific projected cash flows 5 years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 7%
Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 8%
EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1.5% p.a. 10%
Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 0.5% p.a. 6%
ViiV Healthcare 2.5% p.a. 10%
Other Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 1% p.a. 7%
Consumer Healthcare 3% p.a. 7%
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets. The terminal growth rates used in the
fair value less costs of disposal calculations for the cash generating units reflect the impact of future generic competition and take account of
new product launches.
The Pharmaceutical and Vaccines cash generating units comprise a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite
lives with a carrying value of £599 million (2012 – £609 million). The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also comprises a collection of
smaller cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £1.52 billion (2012 – £1.52 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 19 ‘Other intangible assets’.
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in
an impairment of the related goodwill.
158 GSK Annual Report 201319 Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2012 1,358 7,776 128 2,278 11,540
Exchange adjustments (30) (233) (8) (67) (338)
Capitalised internal development costs 62 74 – – 136
Additions through business combinations 2 3,258 – – 3,260
Capitalised borrowing costs 5 7 – – 12
Other additions 49 209 – – 258
Disposals and asset write-offs (13) (487) – – (500)
Reclassifications 68 – – – 68
Transfer from/(to) assets held for sale – – 292 (27) 265
Cost at 31 December 2012 1,501 10,604 412 2,184 14,701
Exchange adjustments (27) (143) – (37) (207)
Capitalised internal development costs 79 246 – – 325
Additions through business combinations – 191 7 – 198
Capitalised borrowing costs 5 1 – – 6
Other additions 99 141 – – 240
Disposals and asset write-offs (26) (346) – – (372)
Transfer (to)/from assets held for sale – (222) – 44 (178)
Cost at 31 December 2013 1,631 10,472 419 2,191 14,713
Amortisation at 1 January 2012 (946) (2,105) (32) – (3,083)
Exchange adjustments 20 70 – – 90
Charge for the year (97) (453) (24) – (574)
Disposals and asset write-offs 11 15 – – 26
Transfer from assets held for sale – – (50) – (50)
Amortisation at 31 December 2012 (1,012) (2,473) (106) – (3,591)
Exchange adjustments 17 65 1 – 83
Charge for the year (128) (536) (18) – (682)
Disposals and asset write-offs 21 2 – – 23
Transfer to assets held for sale – 85 – – 85
Amortisation at 31 December 2013 (1,102) (2,857) (123) – (4,082)
Impairment at 1 January 2012 (36) (592) – (27) (655)
Exchange adjustments – 20 2 1 23
Impairment losses (3) (536) (131) (26) (696)
Disposals and asset write-offs – 379 – – 379
Impairment at 31 December 2012 (39) (729) (129) (52) (949)
Exchange adjustments – 9 – 1 10
Impairment losses (6) (702) (11) (26) (745)
Disposals and asset write-offs 4 332 – – 336
Impairment at 31 December 2013 (41) (1,090) (140) (77) (1,348)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2012 (1,051) (3,202) (235) (52) (4,540)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2013 (1,143) (3,947) (263) (77) (5,430)
Net book value at 1 January 2012 376 5,079 96 2,251 7,802
Net book value at 31 December 2012 450 7,402 177 2,132 10,161
Net book value at 31 December 2013 488 6,525 156 2,114 9,283
The net book value of computer software includes £247 million (2012 – £303 million) of internally generated costs.
The charge for impairments in the year includes the impairments of Lovaza, reflecting a reassessment of the Group’s expectations on the
likelihood of potential generic competition; Chemocentryx, Retigabine and Panmira/Flair. The carrying value at 31 December 2013 of
intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year, following those impairments or reversals, was £290
million (2012 – £253 million).
GSK Annual Report 2013 159Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
19 Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2012 2012
2013 (restated ) 2013 (restated )
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 451 378 408 309
Selling, general and administration 128 97 6 3
Research and development 103 99 331 384
682 574 745 696
Licences, patents, etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are either
marketed or in use, or still in development. The net book value includes £93 million (2012 – £8 million) of internally generated costs. Note 38,
‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of additions through business combinations in the year. The book values of the largest individual
items are as follows:
2013 2012
£m £m
Dolutegravir 1,769 1,777
Benlysta 1,142 1,183
FluLaval/Fluviral 466 549
Selzentry 235 251
Arzerra 271 276
Okairos technology platform 190 –
Lovaza 123 445
Duac 120 130
Toctino 110 128
Fraxiparine – 91
Others 2,099 2,572
6,525 7,402
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop, Inc.
in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001 and CNS, Inc. in 2006, together with a number of pharmaceutical brands from the acquisition of
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in 2009. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2013 2012
£m £m
Panadol 393 413
Sensodyne 257 256
Stiefel trade name 199 201
Breathe Right 192 191
Physiogel 166 174
Polident 109 108
Biotene 106 106
Corega 97 97
Poligrip 67 66
Others 528 520
2,114 2,132
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support.
The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and market
shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively low. The Group
is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful lives. Accordingly,
they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment and other amortised intangible assets are tested when indicators of impairment arise. This testing
applies a fair value less costs of disposal methodology, generally using five year post-tax cash flow forecasts with a terminal value calculation
and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for country and currency specific risks. This
valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is
classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product contribution and
the future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions. These assumptions are
based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in market conditions
and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between nil and 3% are management’s estimates of future
long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that a reasonably
possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these intangible assets.
160 GSK Annual Report 201320 Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2013 Joint 2012
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 22 557 579 29 531 560
Exchange adjustments (3) (109) (112) (3) (32) (35)
Additions 1 7 8 58 41 99
Disposals (1) (139) (140) – – –
Transfer to other investments – (37) (37) – – –
Distributions received (2) (16) (18) (25) (21) (46)
Other movements – – – (7) (21) (28)
(Loss)/profit after tax recognised in the consolidated
income statement (2) 45 43 (30) 59 29
At 31 December 15 308 323 22 557 579
Investments in joint ventures principally arise from a 50% interest in one joint venture, Japan Vaccine Co., Ltd., with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd.
The joint venture holds the development and commercial rights for existing preventative vaccines from both parent companies. It will supply
vaccines including Human Papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine, Rotavirus vaccine, Seasonal flu vaccine, Mumps vaccine, Diphtheria Pertussis
(DTP) vaccine and Measles Rubella vaccine (MRV) in Japan.
The Group held one significant associate at 31 December 2013, Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited. At 31 December 2013, the Group
owned 56.5 million shares or 12.4% of Aspen. Aspen, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, is Africa’s largest pharmaceutical
manufacturer and a major supplier of branded and generic pharmaceutical, healthcare and nutritional products to the southern African and
selected international markets. The investment had a market value of £872 million (2012 – £1,037 million). Although the Group holds less
than 20% of the ownership interest and voting control of Aspen, the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence through both its
shareholding and its nominated director’s active participation on the Aspen Board of Directors. During the year the Group disposed of 6.2%
of its shareholding (see Note 35).
Summarised balance sheet information in respect of Aspen is set out below:
2013 2012
£m £m
Non-current assets 1,442 1,268
Current assets 968 789
Current liabilities (869) (564)
Non-current liabilities (672) (520)
Net assets 869 973
The summarised balance sheet information in respect of Aspen is based on preliminary results information and analysts forecasts available
at 31 December 2013 with adjustments for transactions between GSK and Aspen.
A reconciliation of the summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the Aspen investment is set out below:
2013 2012
£m £m
At 1 January 973 797
Profit for the year 247 313
Other comprehensive income 192 163
Exchange adjustments (289) 39
Dividends paid (45) (54)
Other movements (209) (285)
At 31 December 869 973
Interest in associated undertaking at 12.4% (2012 – 18.6%) 108 181
Goodwill 121 249
Carrying value at 31 December 229 430
GSK Annual Report 2013 161Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
21 Other investments
2013 2012
£m £m
At 1 January 787 590
Exchange adjustments (25) (31)
Additions 132 229
Net fair value movements 379 78
Impairment losses (71) (28)
Transfer from investments in associates and joint ventures 58 –
Equity investments converted into subsidiary on acquisition of business – (23)
Disposals (58) (28)
At 31 December 1,202 787
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each balance
sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid
price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information, including the current
market value of similar instruments and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. The Group holds a number of equity investments
in entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. Other investments include listed investments of £1,000 million
(2012 – £589 million), the increase arising from both additions and fair value adjustments.
Additions in the year include further investments in Theravance Inc. (Theravance) of £83 million. Net fair value movements include an increase
in the value of the investment in Theravance of £212 million. Although GSK owns 27% of the common stock of Theravance it is accounted for
as an equity investment due to voting and other restrictions contained in GSK’s governance agreement with Theravance which prevent the
Group from exerting significant influence.
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from equity to the income statement based on average cost for shares
acquired at different times.
The impairment losses recorded above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within other operating income, together
with amounts reclassified from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially result from prolonged
or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further declines in fair value
are immediately taken to the income statement.
Other investments include assets that have been impaired. The carrying value of these assets at 31 December has been calculated as follows:
2013 2012
£m £m
Original cost 555 481
Cumulative impairments recognised in the income statement (410) (381)
Subsequent fair value increases 147 71
Carrying value at 31 December 292 171
22 Other non-current assets
2013 2012
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 396 359
Pension schemes in surplus 330 124
Other receivables 163 199
889 682
23 Inventories
2013 2012
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 937 965
Work in progress 1,450 1,337
Finished goods 1,513 1,667
3,900 3,969
162 GSK Annual Report 201324 Trade and other receivables
2013 2012
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of provision for bad and doubtful debts 3,966 4,115
Prepaid pension contributions – 1
Other prepayments and accrued income 290 284
Interest receivable 9 11
Employee loans and advances 37 40
Other receivables 1,140 791
5,442 5,242
Trade receivables include £262 million (2012 – £257 million) after provision for bad and doubtful debts (£294 million before provision,
2012 – £315 million) due from state hospital authorities in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Trade receivables also include
£19 million (2012 – £31 million) due from associates and joint ventures. Other receivables includes £233 million (2012– £nil) due from
associates and joint ventures.
2013 2012
Bad and doubtful debt provision
£m £m
At 1 January 165 152
Exchange adjustments (2) (5)
Charge for the year 29 34
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (48) (12)
Utilised (7) (4)
At 31 December 137 165
25 Cash and cash equivalents
2013 2012
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 2,549 1,465
Short-term deposits 2,985 2,719
5,534 4,184
The increase in cash and cash equivalents reflects disposal proceeds of £2.5 million, largely received towards the end of 2013.
26 Assets held for sale
2013 2012
£m £m
Land and buildings – 10
Plant, equipment and vehicles – 9
Intangible assets 1 45
1 64
Non-current assets are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be recovered principally through
disposal and a sale is considered likely. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
GSK Annual Report 2013 163Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
27 Trade and other payables
2013 2012
£m £m
Trade payables 2,739 2,666
Wages and salaries 1,049 915
Social security 109 112
Other payables 906 881
Deferred income 167 162
Customer return and rebate accruals 1,599 1,640
Other accruals 1,748 1,678
8,317 8,054
At 31 December 2013, Other payables include £620 million in respect of the maximum potential amount payable to non-controlling
shareholders in GSK Pharmaceuticals Ltd, the Group’s pharmaceuticals subsidiary in India, under a voluntary open offer to purchase
additional shares announced in December 2013. The purchase is expected to complete in the first half of 2014. At 31 December 2012,
Other payables include £585 million in respect of the maximum potential amount payable to non-controlling shareholders in GSK Consumer
Healthcare Ltd, the Group’s consumer healthcare subsidiary in India (see Note 39).
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts
or allowances payable to customers, including £1,188 million (2012 – £1,210 million) in respect of US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines.
Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the
sale. As the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other
things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical
experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns made and any changes in arrangements. Future events could
cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Trade and other payables include £9 million (2012 – £19 million) due to associates and joint ventures.
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2012 2011
2013 (restated ) (restated )
Pension and other post-employment costs
£m £m £m
UK pension schemes 139 (230) 112
US pension schemes 95 92 89
Other overseas pensions schemes 111 129 129
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes (175) 104 84
170 95 414
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 283 (67) 258
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 30 14 26
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes (175) 104 84
Defined benefit schemes 138 51 368
Defined contribution pension schemes 32 44 46
170 95 414
The net reduction in the post-retirement healthcare schemes cost in 2013 arises from the restructuring of US post-retirement medical
obligations. The reduction in the UK pension scheme cost in 2012 relates to the one-off adjustments arising from the capping of future
pensionable salary increases and a change in the basis of future discretionary pension increased from RPI to CPI in certain legacy plans.
For further details see page 165.
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2012 2011
2013 (restated ) (restated )
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 104 (2) 118
Selling, general and administration 27 114 196
Research and development 7 (61) 54
138 51 368
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees. These
arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by state
schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions paid in
respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable remuneration and
length of service. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.
164 GSK Annual Report 201328 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain countries
pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of
the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from AA rated
corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond yields are used.
Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected inflation rate and pension increases are long-term
predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by
adjusting the SAPS standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements
in life expectancy in line with the CMI projections with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per year for both males and females. In the
USA, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2000 fully generational table, projected using scale AA, with the white collar adjustment.
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2033 for an individual then at the age
of 60 is as follows:
UK USA
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.5 29.7 24.9 26.4
Projected for 2033 29.4 31.5 26.7 27.6
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a general
fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments
are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The Group reviewed the investment strategy of the UK
plans in 2011 and the asset allocation for the UK plans has been adjusted to approximately 55% return seeking assets and 45% liability
matching assets. In 2013, the target asset allocation of the US plans was also updated to 55% return seeking assets and 45% liability
matching assets.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to
join a defined contribution scheme. In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were merged
during 2001. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the USA.
During 2013, the Group restructured US post-retirement medical obligations for both active and retired members under the age of 65. The current
plan for participants over 65, paid for medical expenses in excess of those covered by Medicare Part A and Part B as well as for prescription
drugs. Under the new arrangement these participants will instead be eligible to receive an amount, from age 65, from a health reimbursement
account, based on years service, subject to an inflation linked maximum of $1,500 per year. Those already retired and over the age of 65 have also
been given the option to switch to this new arrangement. The impact of this change in 2013 is a credit to the income statement of £279 million
and a similar reduction in the post-retirement obligation.
During 2012, the Group changed its policy towards granting discretionary pension increase in the Smithkline Beecham defined benefit
schemes. In the year, the Group also introduced a limit for all UK defined benefit schemes of 2% per year on the rate at which pensionable
pay may increase.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK USA Rest of World
2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.00 2.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 2.80 3.00 2.90
Discount rate 4.50 4.40 4.80 4.60 3.80 4.40 3.40 3.30 4.20
Expected pension increases 3.40 3.00 3.00 n/a n/a n/a 2.10 1.90 1.90
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 4.20 3.35 3.75 0.90 1.30 1.20
Inflation rate 3.40 3.00 3.00 2.25 2.25 2.25 1.80 1.70 1.60
GSK Annual Report 2013 165Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December 2013 in
relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 117 74 89 280 37
Past service cost/(credit) 4 – (31) (27) (273)
Net interest cost 12 17 17 46 61
Expenses 6 4 4 14 –
139 95 79 313 (175)
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 349 257 74 680 167
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
(restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated )
2012
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 130 66 75 271 36
Past service (credit)/cost (391) – – (391) 2
Net interest cost 31 26 10 67 66
(230) 92 85 (53) 104
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (384) 48 (230) (566) (119)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
(restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated )
2011 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 123 64 75 262 31
Past service (credit)/cost (43) – – (43) (13)
Net interest cost 32 25 9 66 71
Gains and losses on settlement – – (1) (1) (5)
112 89 83 284 84
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (577) (70) (104) (751) (133)
The past service credit of £273 million in 2013 includes an amount of £279 million in relation to the restructuring of the US post-retirement
medical obligations. The past service credit of £391 million in 2012 reflects the adjustments of £395 million related to the capping of future
pensionable salary increases and a change in the basis of future discretionary pension increases from RPI to CPI in certain legacy plans. For
further details see page 165.
The amounts included within past service costs include £nil (2012 – £4 million; 2011 – £5 million) of augmentation costs arising from major
restructuring programmes (see Note 29, ‘Other provisions’).
166 GSK Annual Report 201328 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set out in the
table below:
2012 2011
2013 (restated ) (restated )
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 330 124 20
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (943) (1,436) (1,496)
Post-retirement benefits (1,246) (1,685) (1,616)
(2,189) (3,121) (3,112)
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other
defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 6,474 1,202 422 8,098
– unlisted – – 9 9
Property: – unlisted 254 131 5 390
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,484 531 57 2,072
– unlisted – – 20 20
Government bonds: – listed 2,376 320 517 3,213
Other assets: – listed 284 330 48 662
– unlisted 372 – 389 761
Fair value of assets 11,244 2,514 1,467 15,225
Present value of scheme obligations (11,132) (2,793) (1,913) (15,838)
Recognised on the balance sheet 112 (279) (446) (613)
Included in other non-current assets 292 – 38 330
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (180) (279) (484) (943)
112 (279) (446) (613)
Actual return on plan assets 1,383 218 98 1,699
In December 2010, the UK scheme purchased an insurance contract that will guarantee payment of specified pensioner liabilities. This is
included within ‘Other assets’ and the ‘Present value of scheme obligations’ in the table above at a value of £775 million (2012 – £751 million;
2011 – £735 million). Additional insurance contracts have also been purchased in other countries and are included within ‘Other assets’
in the table above at a value of £366 million (2012 – £327 million; 2011 – £306 million). In October 2013, the UK schemes entered into
repurchase agreements to gain exposure to index-linked gilts. The related loan is also included within ‘Other assets’ at a value of
£(407) million (2012 – £nil; 2011 – £nil).
UK USA Rest of World Goup
(restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated )
At 31 December 2012
£m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 5,270 1,018 276 6,564
Property: – unlisted 265 116 5 386
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,439 586 19 2,044
Government bonds: – listed 2,054 427 657 3,138
Other assets: – listed 291 374 93 758
– unlisted 662 – 327 989
Fair value of assets 9,981 2,521 1,377 13,879
Present value of scheme obligations (10,298) (2,979) (1,914) (15,191)
Recognised on the balance sheet (317) (458) (537) (1,312)
Included in other non-current assets 103 – 21 124
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (420) (458) (558) (1,436)
(317) (458) (537) (1,312)
Actual return on plan assets 665 308 118 1,091
GSK Annual Report 2013 167Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK USA Rest of World Goup
(restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated )
At 31 December 2011
£m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 4,349 907 254 5,510
Property: – listed 274 163 6 443
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,306 797 8 2,111
Government bonds: – listed 2,048 427 665 3,140
Other assets: – listed – 161 45 206
– unlisted 1,142 – 306 1,448
Fair value of assets 9,119 2,455 1,284 12,858
Present value of scheme obligations (9,779) (2,945) (1,610) (14,334)
Recognised on the balance sheet (660) (490) (326) (1,476)
Included in other non-current assets – – 20 20
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (660) (490) (346) (1,496)
(660) (490) (326) (1,476)
Actual return on plan assets 285 188 21 494
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
(restated ) (restated ) (restated) (restated ) (restated )
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2011 8,618 2,310 1,228 12,156 –
Exchange adjustments – 18 (11) 7 –
Interest income 405 109 55 569 –
Remeasurement (120) 79 (34) (75) –
Employer contributions 530 146 108 784 70
Scheme participants’ contributions 7 – 9 16 12
Benefits paid (321) (207) (71) (599) (82)
Assets at 31 December 2011 9,119 2,455 1,284 12,858 –
Exchange adjustments – (125) (56) (181) –
Interest income 381 97 55 533 –
Remeasurement 284 211 63 558 –
Employer contributions 497 52 86 635 76
Scheme participants’ contributions 33 – 9 42 15
Benefits paid (333) (169) (58) (560) (91)
Settlements and curtailments – – (6) (6) –
Assets at 31 December 2012 9,981 2,521 1,377 13,879 –
Exchange adjustments – (49) (45) (94) –
Interest income 385 96 45 526 –
Expenses (6) (4) (4) (14)
Remeasurement 998 122 53 1,173 –
Employer contributions 219 20 104 343 76
Scheme participants’ contributions 26 – 10 36 15
Benefits paid (359) (192) (73) (624) (91)
Assets at 31 December 2013 11,244 2,514 1,467 15,225 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £1,366 million at 31 December 2013
(2012 – £1,112 million; 2011 – £957 million).
During 2013, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £93 million (2012 – £366 million; 2011
– £368 million) and £nil million (2012 – £32 million; 2011 – £82 million) to the US scheme. In 2013, GSK reached an agreement with the
trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2011
actuarial funding valuation. Based on the funding agreements following the 2011 valuation, the additional contributions are expected to be
£85 million in 2014. The contributions were based on a government bond yield curve approach to selecting the discount rate; the rate
chosen included an allowance for expected investment returns which reflected the asset mix of the schemes.
Employer contributions for 2014, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £330 million in respect of
defined benefit pension schemes and £80 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.
168 GSK Annual Report 201328 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK USA Rest of World Group Group
(restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated ) (restated )
Movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2011 (9,119) (2,781) (1,479) (13,379) (1,459)
Exchange adjustments – (24) 15 (9) (10)
Service cost (123) (64) (75) (262) (31)
Past service cost 43 – – 43 13
Interest cost (437) (134) (64) (635) (71)
Settlements and curtailments – – 1 1 5
Remeasurement (457) (149) (70) (676) (133)
Scheme participants’ contributions (7) – (9) (16) (12)
Benefits paid 321 207 71 599 82
Obligations at 31 December 2011 (9,779) (2,945) (1,610) (14,334) (1,616)
Exchange adjustments – 149 74 223 78
Service cost (130) (66) (75) (271) (36)
Past service cost 391 – – 391 (2)
Interest cost (412) (123) (65) (600) (66)
Settlements and curtailments – – 6 6 –
Remeasurement (668) (163) (293) (1,124) (119)
Scheme participants’ contributions (33) – (9) (42) (15)
Benefits paid 333 169 58 560 91
Obligations at 31 December 2012 (10,298) (2,979) (1,914) (15,191) (1,685)
Exchange adjustments – 46 37 83 9
Service cost (117) (74) (89) (280) (37)
Past service cost (4) – 31 27 273
Interest cost (397) (113) (62) (572) (61)
Other movements – – – – 12
Remeasurement (649) 135 21 (493) 167
Scheme participants’ contributions (26) – (10) (36) (15)
Benefits paid 359 192 73 624 91
Obligations at 31 December 2013 (11,132) (2,793) (1,913) (15,838) (1,246)
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with obligations totalling £1,366 million at 31 December 2013
(2012 – £1,112 million; 2011 – £957 million).
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated )
£m £m £m
Funded (15,432) (14,789) (13,956)
Unfunded (406) (402) (378)
(15,838) (15,191) (14,334)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme,
together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.5% (2012 – 7%), grading down to 5.0% in 2022 and thereafter. During 2013,
the US post-retirement healthcare scheme was amended (see page 165 for further details). The impact of this change is a one-off reduction
in the post-retirement obligation of £279 million. At 31 December 2013 the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £1,066
million (2012 – £1,504 million; 2011 – £1,446 million).
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
GSK Annual Report 2013 169Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
28 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
Fair value Present value Net
of assets of obligation total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2011, restated 12,156 (13,379) (1,223)
Exchange adjustments 7 (9) (2)
Service cost – (262) (262)
Past service cost – 43 43
Interest income/cost 569 (635) (66)
Settlements and curtailments – 1 1
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest (75) – (75)
Loss from change in financial assumptions – (584) (584)
Experience losses – (92) (92)
Employers contributions 784 – 784
Scheme participants’ contributions 16 (16) –
Benefits paid (599) 599 –
At 31 December 2011 12,858 (14,334) (1,476)
Exchange adjustments (181) 223 42
Service cost – (271) (271)
Past service cost – 391 391
Interest income/cost 533 (600) (67)
Settlements and curtailments (6) 6 –
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 558 – 558
Gain from change in demographic assumptions – 55 55
Loss from change in financial assumptions – (1,071) (1,071)
Experience losses – (108) (108)
Employers contributions 635 – 635
Scheme participants’ contributions 42 (42) –
Benefits paid (560) 560 –
At 31 December 2012 13,879 (15,191) (1,312)
Exchange adjustments (94) 83 (11)
Service cost – (280) (280)
Past service cost – 27 27
Interest income/cost 526 (572) (46)
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 1,173 – 1,173
Loss from change in demographic assumptions – (89) (89)
Loss from change in financial assumptions – (118) (118)
Experience losses – (286) (286)
Employers contributions 343 – 343
Scheme participants’ contributions 36 (36) –
Benefits paid (624) 624 –
Expenses/other movements (14) – (14)
At 31 December 2013 15,225 (15,838) (613)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
(Loss)/gain from change in demographic assumptions (1) 1 –
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions 143 (132) (130)
Experience gains/(losses) 25 12 (3)
167 (119) (133)
170 GSK Annual Report 201328 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Active 5,053 4,695 4,557
Retired 7,137 6,930 6,439
Deferred 3,648 3,566 3,338
15,838 15,191 14,334
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Active 545 708 615
Retired 699 975 1,000
Deferred 2 2 1
1,246 1,685 1,616
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2013 2012 2011
years years years
Pension benefits 16 16 16
Post-retirement benefits 12 11 16
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2014 annual defined benefit pension and post retirement costs
after the revisions to IAS 19.
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 32
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost (1)
Increase in pension obligation 554
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 35
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 19
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in pension obligation 359
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 34
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 3
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 60
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 21
Increase in pension obligation 359
GSK Annual Report 2013 171Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
29 Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2013 527 373 227 265 1,392
Exchange adjustments (20) (1) (1) 1 (21)
Charge for the year 286 179 54 138 657
Reversed unused (36) (15) (2) (32) (85)
Unwinding of discount 1 6 – 7 14
Utilised (115) (189) (18) (97) (419)
Reclassifications and other movements 3 (4) – 7 6
At 31 December 2013 646 349 260 289 1,544
To be settled within one year 635 160 34 163 992
To be settled after one year 11 189 226 126 552
At 31 December 2013 646 349 260 289 1,544
Legal and other disputes It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various appeal
Note 44 ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other disputes procedures, often take many years to reach resolution, and out-of-
include amounts relating to product liability (principally relating to court settlement discussions can also often be protracted. The
Avandia, Paxil and Poligrip), anti-trust (principally relating to Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of the
Wellbutrin, Flonase and Lamictal), government investigations disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based on its
(principally relating to the ‘Colorado investigation’ settlement, current assessment of the progress of these disputes, estimates
Avandia-related investigations, Average Wholesale Price (AWP) that £0.6 billion of the amount provided at 31 December 2013 will
and nominal price investigations), contract terminations, self- be settled within one year.
insurance, environmental clean-up and property rental. At 31 December 2013, it was expected that £1 million (2012 –
The charge for the year of £286 million (£251 million net of reversals £3 million) of the provision made for legal and other disputes will be
and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to provisions reimbursed by third party insurers. This amount is included within the
for product liability cases regarding Paxil, Poligrip and other Other receivables balances in Note 22, ‘Other non-current assets’
products and various government investigations. and Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’. For a discussion of legal
issues, see Note 44, ‘Legal proceedings’.
The discount on the provisions decreased by £nil in 2013
(2012 – £3 million) and was calculated using risk-adjusted
projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return. The movement
in 2013 includes a decrease of £nil (2012 – £1 million) arising from
a change in the discount rate in the year.
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products,
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to
cover unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may
vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome
of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement
negotiations.
172 GSK Annual Report 201329 Other provisions continued
Major restructuring programmes
In October 2007 the Group announced the Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and productivity
of its operations (see Note 10, ‘Major restructuring costs’). In addition, in 2013, the Group initiated the Major Change restructuring
programme focused on opportunities to simplify supply chain processes, build the Group’s capabilities in manufacturing and R&D and
restructure the European Pharmaceuticals business.
Provisions for staff severance payments are made when management has made a formal decision to eliminate certain positions and this has
been communicated to the groups of employees affected and appropriate consultation procedures completed, where appropriate. No
provision is made for staff severance payments that are made immediately.
Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of £nil (2012 – £4 million) have been charged during the year and then transferred
to the pension obligations provision as shown in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’. Asset write-downs have been
recognised as impairments of property, plant and equipment in Note 17, ‘Property, plant and equipment’. The majority of the amounts
provided are expected to be utilised in the next two years.
Employee related provisions
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in the USA. At 31
December 2013, the provision for these benefits amounted to £111 million (2012 – £113 million). Other employee benefits reflect a variety
of provisions for severance costs, jubilee awards and other long-service benefits.
Other provisions
Included in other provisions are insurance provisions of £31 million (2012 – £29 million), onerous property lease provisions of £33 million
(2012 – £16 million) and a number of other provisions including vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.
30 Other non-current liabilities
2013 2012
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 101 73
Other payables 1,603 1,359
1,704 1,432
The increase in other payables primarily arises from contingent consideration of £253 million relating to the acquisition of the 50% share of
the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture previously held by Shionogi & Co Ltd in 2012.
GSK Annual Report 2013 173Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
31 Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2013, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of business,
amounted to £198 million (2012 – £209 million). At 31 December 2013, £nil (2012 – £nil) of financial assets were pledged as collateral for
contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the Group will suffer
an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable estimate of that outflow. At 31 December 2013, other than for those disputes where
provision has been made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle
disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote. Descriptions of the significant tax, legal and other disputes
to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and Note 44, ‘Legal proceedings’.
32 Net debt
2013 2012
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 66 81
Cash and cash equivalents 5,534 4,184
5,600 4,265
Short-term borrowings:
Bank loans and overdrafts (352) (323)
Commercial paper (1,491) (1,748)
Obligations under finance leases (27) (27)
4.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2013 New York Stock Exchange – (1,533)
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 London Stock Exchange (919) –
(2,789) (3,631)
Long-term borrowings:
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 London Stock Exchange – (970)
0.75% US$ US Medium Term Note 2015 New York Stock Exchange (601) (611)
3.875% € European Medium Term Note 2015 London Stock Exchange (1,330) (1,296)
0.7% US$ US Medium Term Note 2016 New York Stock Exchange (751) –
1.50% US$ US Medium Term Note 2017 New York Stock Exchange (1,199) (1,219)
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange (1,038) (1,013)
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange (1,653) (1,683)
2.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,193) (1,214)
2.8% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (743) –
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (618) (602)
3.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (591) (590)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (983) (982)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (299) (305)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (1,641) (1,670)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (694) (694)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (987) (986)
4.2% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (294) –
4.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (788) (787)
Obligations under finance leases (53) (49)
(15,456) (14,671)
Net debt (12,645) (14,037)
174 GSK Annual Report 201332 Net debt continued
Current assets Long-term borrowings
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £15.5 billion
At 31 December 2013, they included US Treasury Notes and other (2012 – £14.7 billion) of which £8.8 billion (2012 – £9.5 billion) falls
government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at due in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap interest
31 December 2013 was approximately 0.5% (2012 – approximately rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2013 was approximately
2.6%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2013 earning 4.5% (2012 – approximately 4.9%).
interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £65 million and
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at
£1 million respectively (2012 – £74 million and £7 million).
effective rates between 3.11% and 6.76%. The repayment dates
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 range from 2022 to 2045.
December 2013 was approximately 1.3% (2012 – approximately
1.7%). Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2013 earning Pledged assets
interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £5,298 million and The Group has pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par
£1 million respectively (2012 – £3,876 million and £1 million). value of $105 million (£63 million) (2012 – $119 million (£74 million))
as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash
behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance activity. Provisions in
equivalents is referred to in Note 41, ‘Financial instruments and
respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal
related disclosures’.
and other disputes discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. At
Short-term borrowings 31 December 2013, £69 million of the Group’s cash balance was
held in an escrow account in connection with the Group’s offer to
GSK has a $10 billion (£6.0 billion) US commercial paper
purchase shares in its Indian pharmaceutical subsidiary. In addition,
programme, of which $2.5 billion (£1.5 billion) was in issue at
£48 million (2012 – £49 million) of assets included in Note 22,
31 December 2013 (2012 – $2.9 billion (£1.7 billion)). GSK also
‘Other non-current assets’, which do not form part of Net debt, were
has £1.9 billion of five year committed medium-term facilities
pledged as collateral against future rental payments under operating
and $2.5 billion (£1.5 billion) of 364 day committed facilities.
lease arrangements entered into by Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
These facilities were put in place in September 2012 and
prior to its acquisition by the Group.
September 2013 respectively and were undrawn at 31 December
2013. Liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents were
as shown in the table on page 174.
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and
overdrafts at 31 December 2013 was 3.7% (2012 – 2.1%). The
weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings
at 31 December 2013 was 0.18% (2012 – 0.20%).
2013 2012
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 29 30
Rental payments due between one and two years 24 21
Rental payments due between two and three years 16 17
Rental payments due between three and four years 9 9
Rental payments due between four and five years 4 2
Rental payments due after five years 5 6
Total future rental payments 87 85
Future finance charges (7) (9)
Total finance lease obligations 80 76
GSK Annual Report 2013 175Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
33 Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2011 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2012 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2013 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2011 5,670,458,177 1,418 1,428
Issued under employee share schemes 21,949,144 5 245
Share capital cancelled (142,204,223) (36) –
At 31 December 2011 5,550,203,098 1,387 1,673
Issued under employee share schemes 28,045,821 7 349
Share capital cancelled (180,652,950) (45) –
At 31 December 2012 5,397,595,969 1,349 2,022
Issued under employee share schemes 44,610,727 12 573
Share capital cancelled (100,000,000) (25) –
At 31 December 2013 5,342,206,696 1,336 2,595
31 December 2013 31 December 2012
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes (Note 42) 91,303 114,985
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,566,351 4,487,419
At 31 December 2013, of the issued share capital, 63,613,528 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 487,433,663 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,791,159,505 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of
the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
A total of 92 million shares were purchased by the company during 2013 at a cost of £1,504 million and 100 million shares were cancelled.
Monthly purchases of shares during 2013 were as follows:
Average share price excluding
Number of shares commission and stamp duty
000 £
March 3,480,000 14.97
May 6,303,185 17.29
June 15,570,000 16.46
July 5,101,000 16.75
August 11,635,900 16.70
September 17,323,000 16.01
October 23,834,500 15.67
November 4,083,997 16.18
December 5,150,754 15.95
Total 92,482,336 16.18
For details of substantial shareholdings refer to page 242.
176 GSK Annual Report 201334 Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £3,066 million at 31 December 2013 (2012 – £2,429 million; 2011 – £4,959 million) of
which £307 million (2012 – £372 million; 2011 – £421 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative
translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Total
Retained Non- translation
earnings Fair value controlling exchange
(restated) reserve interests (restated)
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2011 1,309 11 (24) 1,296
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (259) 4 (44) (299)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation of overseas subsidiary (1) – – (1)
At 31 December 2011 1,049 15 (68) 996
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (203) (23) (30) (256)
At 31 December 2012 846 (8) (98) 740
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (260) 5 (35) (290)
At 31 December 2013 586 (3) (133) 450
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2013 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (260) 5 – (255)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 367 – 367
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (29) – (29)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (38) – (38)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 7 – 7
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 2 – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (9) – (9)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 1 – 1
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 15 – – 15
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (35) (35)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit plans 847 – – 847
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans (286) – – (286)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 316 306 (35) 587
Retained Non-
earnings Other controlling Total
(restated) reserves interests (restated)
2012 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (203) (23) – (226)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 77 – 77
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (10) – (10)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (19) – (19)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 10 – 10
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 2 – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (6) – (6)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 30 – – 30
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (30) (30)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (685) – – (685)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 193 – – 193
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (665) 31 (30) (664)
GSK Annual Report 2013 177Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
34 Movements in equity continued
Retained Non-
earnings Other controlling Total
(restated) reserves interests (restated)
2011 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (259) 4 – (255)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (1) – – (1)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (20) – (20)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 23 – 23
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (29) – (29)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1 – 1
Share of other comprehensive expense of associates and joint ventures (8) – – (8)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movement on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (44) (44)
Actuarial losses on defined benefit plans (884) – – (884)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans 243 – – 243
Other comprehensive expense for the year (909) (21) (44) (974)
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2011 (845) 89 (4) 2,022 1,262
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (10) 3 – (7)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (19) – – (19)
Net fair value movement in the year – 10 (5) – 5
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 36 36
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (36) – – – (36)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 44 – – – 44
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 345 – – – 345
Forward contract on non-controlling interest – – – (28) (28)
At 31 December 2011 (492) 70 (6) 2,030 1,602
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (18) 2 – (16)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (1) – – (1)
Net fair value movement in the year – 54 (6) – 48
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 45 45
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (37) – – – (37)
Ordinary Shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 58 – – – 58
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 80 – – – 80
Forward contract on non-controlling interest – – – 8 8
At 31 December 2012 (391) 105 (10) 2,083 1,787
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (38) 2 – (36)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairment – (1) – – (1)
Net fair value movement in the year – 347 (4) – 343
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled – – – 25 25
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (45) – – – (45)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 80 – – – 80
At 31 December 2013 (356) 413 (12) 2,108 2,153
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2013
(2012 – £1,849 million; 2011 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the share
buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2013 (2012 – £256 million; 2011 – £211 million).
178 GSK Annual Report 201335 Related party transactions
GSK held a 12.4% interest in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited at 31 December 2013 (2012 – 18.6%). During 2013, GSK sold
28.2 million shares, representing 6.2% of Aspen’s share capital for £429 million.
During 2013, GSK distributed £64 million (2012 – £68 million) of its products through Aspen’s extensive distribution network. At 31
December 2013, the balance due to GSK from Aspen was £11 million (2012 – £12 million) and the balance payable by GSK to Aspen
was £9 million (2012 – £3 million). On 31 December 2013, GSK completed the sale of the worldwide intellectual property rights (excluding
certain EMAP markets) of the anti-coagulant products business to the Aspen Group, together with related inventory and a manufacturing
site for consideration of £732 million, of which £233 million has been deferred and is receivable in 2014.
In May 2013, the ViiV Healthcare Shire Canada joint venture was dissolved. GSK acquired the net assets of the former partnership through
its subsidiary ViiV Healthcare ULC. ViiV Canada now owns and operates the business of the former partnership.
At 31 December 2013, GSK held a 50% interest in Japan Vaccine Co. Ltd (JVC) through its subsidiary GlaxoSmithKline K.K. This joint
venture with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd is primarily responsible for the development and marketing of certain prophylactic vaccines in Japan.
During 2013, GSK sold £36 million of its vaccine products into the joint venture. At 31 December 2013, the balance due to GSK from JVC
was £8 million and the balance payable by GSK to JVC was £nil.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’.
36 Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 5,628 4,678 5,405
Tax on profits 1,019 1,922 2,220
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (43) (29) (15)
Finance income net of finance expense 706 729 709
Depreciation 732 871 893
Amortisation of intangible assets 682 574 530
Impairment and assets written off 928 654 346
Profit on sale of businesses (1,331) – –
Profit on sale of intangible assets (78) (652) (236)
Profit on sale of investments in associates (282) – (585)
Profit on sale of equity investments (36) (16) (10)
Changes in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in inventories (95) 37 (157)
Decrease in trade receivables 16 183 192
Increase in other receivables (218) (27) (69)
Increase in trade payables 125 177 442
Increase in other payables 393 132 2
Decrease in pension and other provisions (165) (2,839) (2,108)
Share-based incentive plans 319 220 198
Fair value adjustments (12) (575) (10)
Other 211 9 (34)
2,871 1,370 2,308
Cash generated from operations 8,499 6,048 7,713
GSK Annual Report 2013 179Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (14,037) (9,003) (8,859)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 1,473 (1,607) (94)
Cash inflow from liquid investments (15) (224) (30)
Net increase in long-term loans (1,913) (4,430) –
Net repayment of/(increase in) short-term loans 1,872 816 (37)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 31 35 38
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired (6) (3) (10)
Exchange adjustments (34) 385 (10)
Other non-cash movements (16) (6) (1)
Movement in net debt 1,392 (5,034) (144)
Net debt at end of year (12,645) (14,037) (9,003)
At 1 January At 31December
2013 Exchange Other Reclassifications Acquisitions Cash flow 2013
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 81 – – – – (15) 66
Cash and cash equivalents 4,184 (155) – – – 1,505 5,534
Overdrafts (278) 7 – – – (32) (303)
3,906 (148) – – – 1,473 5,231
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (1,748) – – – – 257 (1,491)
European and US Medium Term Notes (1,533) (29) 38 (1,007) – 1,612 (919)
Other (72) 2 (8) (22) (6) 30 (76)
(3,353) (27) 30 (1,029) (6) 1,899 (2,486)
Debt due after one year:
European and US Medium Term Notes (14,622) 140 (15) 1,007 – (1,913) (15,403)
Other (49) 1 (31) 22 – 4 (53)
(14,671) 141 (46) 1,029 – (1,909) (15,456)
Net debt (14,037) (34) (16) – (6) 1,448 (12,645)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 32, ‘Net debt’.
180 GSK Annual Report 201338 Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2013
Acquisitions
During the year GSK completed the acquisition of three businesses for cash, including Okairos AG, a European based biopharmaceutical
company focused on the development of a specific vaccine technology in the prophylactic and therapeutic fields, which was acquired in May.
The total purchase price for these businesses of £255 million included £7 million of cash acquired and £1 million of contingent consideration.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangibles – 198 198
Property, plant and equipment 20 3 23
Inventory 6 – 6
Trade and other receivables 16 – 16
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 8 – 8
Deferred tax provision – (23) (23)
Trade and other payables (26) – (26)
24 178 202
Goodwill – 53 53
24 231 255
Cash consideration paid 254
Contingent consideration 1
Total consideration 255
If the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by approximately
£50 million for the year. Okairos has been fully integrated into the GSK business and it is not practicable to separately identify the impact on
the Group profit for the year. The other acquisitions occured shortly before the end of the year and had no material impact on the Group profit
for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects potential for business synergies and the value of workforce acquired. The majority of this
goodwill is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquisitions are reported within the US, Europe, EMAP, Japan, Other trading and unallocated Pharmaceuticals and
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare operating segments. The transactions were accounted for using the acquisition accounting method.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2013 totalled £2 million.
2013 2012
Contingent consideration £m £m
At 1 January 697 78
Exchange adjustments – 1
Additions 1 696
Remeasurement through goodwill (18) (91)
Remeasurement through income statement 251 13
Settlement (7) –
At 31 December 924 697
Disposals
Lucozade and Ribena
On 31 December 2013, GSK completed the sale of the Lucozade and Ribena business including a manufacturing site and related inventory
to Suntory Beverage and Food Ltd for £1,352 million in cash and recognised a profit on disposal in Other operating income of £1,057 million.
Lucozade and Ribena sales, excluding retained markets, totalled £527 million for the year ending 31 December 2013.
£m
Cash consideration 1,352
Net assets sold
Inventory (45)
Property, plant and equipment (149)
Goodwill (24)
(218)
Disposal costs (77)
Profit on disposal 1,057
GSK Annual Report 2013 181Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Anti-coagulant business
On 31 December 2013, GSK completed the sale of the anti-coagulant business comprising of worldwide intellectual property rights
(excluding China, India and Pakistan) of Fraxiparine and Arixtra together with related inventory and a manufacturing site to the Aspen Group
for consideration of £732 million, of which £499 million was received in cash and £233 million was deferred.
The £233 million deferred consideration receivable relates to inventory and a manufacturing site and is receivable in 2014. £138 million of
consideration receivable relates to inventory which is subject to true up upon final transfer of inventory in 2014.
Profit on disposal of £274 million was recognised in Other operating income. Worldwide sales of Fraxiparine and Arixtra, excluding retained
markets, were £345 million for the year ending 31 December 2013.
£m
Cash consideration 499
Cash consideration receivable 233
732
Net assets sold
Inventory (138)
Property, plant and equipment (91)
Intangible assets (80)
Goodwill (31)
(340)
Disposal costs (79)
Total profit on disposal 313
Deferral of profit (39)
Profit recognised in year 274
GSK holds an investment in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (Aspen) which is accounted for as an investment in an associate. £39 million
of the total profit on disposal, representing GSK’s continuing interest through its shareholding in Aspen, has therefore been deferred.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
In November 2013, GSK sold one third of its shareholding in Aspen, representing 6.2% of the issued share capital of the company, for
£429 million in cash. At 31 December 2013, GSK held 12.4% of Aspen and continued to recognise its investment in Aspen as an associate.
£m
Cash consideration 429
Net book value of shares (132)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (42)
Reclassification of fair value movements from other comprehensive income 19
Profit on disposal 274
Business Associates
acquisitions and joint
and disposals ventures Total
Cash flows £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 254 8 262
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (7) – (7)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 247 8 255
Total cash consideration payable, net of cash acquired 248 8 256
Contingent consideration (1) – (1)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 247 8 255
Total cash proceeds receivable 2,084 429 2,513
Cash proceeds deferred (233) – (233)
Net cash proceeds from disposals 1,851 429 2,280
182 GSK Annual Report 201338 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2012
Acquisitions
Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
On 3 August 2012, GSK completed the acquisition of 100% of the issued share capital of Human Genome Sciences, Inc. (HGS), a US
based biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of protein and anti-body drugs for the treatment of immuno-inflammation
diseases, for cash. The goodwill arising on the acquisition of this business reflected the potential business synergies and realisation of the
full value of Benlysta, albiglutide, darapladib and other assets by simplifying and optimising R&D, commercial and manufacturing operations
through complete ownership of the assets. The goodwill recognised is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquired business are reported as part of the US, Europe, EMAP, Japan and Other trading and unallocated costs operating
segments. The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition accounting method.
The pro-forma turnover for the HGS business for the full year 2012 was £154 million. During 2012, GSK recorded turnover of £69 million
from HGS products. As the HGS products had been fully integrated into the GSK business, it was not practicable to separately identify the
impact of the acquisition on the Group profit for the year.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2012 arising on this acquisition amounted to £28 million.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 1,249 1,249
Property, plant and equipment 21 10 31
Trade and other receivables 33 – 33
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 431 83 514
Deferred tax asset – 156 156
Trade and other liabilities (86) (173) (259)
399 1,325 1,724
Goodwill – 791 791
399 2,116 2,515
Cash consideration paid 2,282
Gain on settlement of pre-existing collaborations 233
Total consideration 2,515
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
On 29 October 2012, GSK acquired the 50% share of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture previously held by Shionogi & Co, Ltd.
The assets acquired included the investigational medicine dolutegravir and early stage integrase inhibitor compounds in development.
Total consideration comprised a 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare, GSK’s existing 50% investment in the joint venture and contingent
consideration payable in cash in the future, together with a deferred tax asset and a loss on settlement of pre-existing relationships. The
contingent consideration is payable based on a percentage of the future sales performance of compounds developed by the joint venture,
if they become marketed products, and so the total amount payable is unlimited.
The results of the acquired business are reported as part of ViiV Healthcare. The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition
accounting method.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2012 arising on this acquisition amounted to £2 million.
GSK Annual Report 2013 183Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 1,777 1,777
Deferred tax provision – (628) (628)
– 1,149 1,149
Negative goodwill – (124) (124)
– 1,025 1,025
Consideration settled by shares in ViiV Healthcare 377
Contingent consideration 659
Deferred tax on contingent consideration (236)
Fair value of investment in joint venture converted into subsidiary 256
Loss on settlement of pre-existing relationships (31)
Total consideration 1,025
Other acquisitions
During 2012, GSK completed two smaller acquisitions for cash. The total cash consideration paid of £206 million included £2 million of cash
acquired.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 232 232
Property, plant and equipment 2 – 2
Trade and other receivables 2 – 2
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 2 – 2
Deferred tax provision – (14) (14)
Trade and other liabilities (8) 4 (4)
(2) 222 220
Goodwill – 82 82
(2) 304 302
Cash consideration paid 206
Contingent consideration 37
Fair value of equity investment converted into subsidiary 23
Gain on settlement of pre-existing relationships 36
Total consideration 302
If the other acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by £27 million
for the year. As some of the acquisitions had been fully integrated into the GSK business it was not practicable to separately identify the
impact of the acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects the potential for business synergies and further sales growth through the increase in GSK’s
market presence following the acquisitions of these market participants. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for
income tax purposes.
The results of the acquisitions are reported as part of the Europe Pharma and Research & Development reportable operating segments.
The Group recognised a settlement gain of £36 million as a result of measuring at fair value relationships that had existed prior to the
acquisition date. The gain was recognised in Other operating income on the income statement.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2012 arising on other acquisitions totalled £9 million.
184 GSK Annual Report 201338 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures
GSK made cash contributions of £39 million into the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture prior to its acquisition as a subsidiary and made
cash investments of £19 million into a new joint venture in which the Group held a share of 50%. GSK also made cash investments of
£41 million into associates.
Human Shionogi- Total Associates
Genome ViiV joint Other business and joint
Sciences venture acquisitions acquisitions ventures Total
Cash flows
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 2,282 – 206 2,488 99 2,587
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (251) – (2) (253) – (253)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 2,031 – 204 2,235 99 2,334
Total cash consideration payable, net of cash acquired 2,031 659 241 2,931 99 3,030
Contingent consideration – (659) (37) (696) – (696)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 2,031 – 204 2,235 99 2,334
2011
Acquisitions
During the year GSK completed four subsidiary acquisitions for cash. The total purchase price of £299 million included £16 million of cash
acquired.
Fair value
Book value adjustments Fair value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 6 122 128
Property, plant and equipment 52 (1) 51
Trade and other receivables 16 – 16
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 23 1 24
Deferred tax provision – (31) (31)
Other liabilities (32) (1) (33)
65 90 155
Goodwill – 168 168
65 258 323
Cash consideration paid 299
Fair value of investment in joint venture converted into subsidiary 24
Total consideration 323
If the acquisitions had been made at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover would have increased by £75 million for the
year. As some of the subsidiaries have been fully integrated into the GSK business it is not practicable to separately identify the impact of the
acquisitions on the Group profit for the year.
The goodwill arising on the acquisitions reflects the potential for business synergies and further sales growth through the increase in GSK’s
market presence following the acquisitions of these businesses. In addition, goodwill of £10 million was recognised in respect of fair value
adjustments to prior year acquisitions. None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The results of the acquisitions are reported as part of the US, Europe, EMAP, Japan, Other trading and unallocated Pharmaceuticals and
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare operating segments.
The Group recognised a loss of £1 million as a result of remeasuring to fair value an associate held prior to the acquisition date. This loss is
reported as a loss on disposal of interest in associates in the income statement.
Acquisition costs expensed in 2011 arising on acquisitions totalled £2 million.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
GSK made cash contributions of £33 million in a joint venture in which the Group has a 50% share, made cash investments in associates
totalling £2 million and transferred a £3 million equity investment into associates as the Group has increased its shareholding from 5% to
37%.
GSK Annual Report 2013 185Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
38 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Disposals
GSK disposed of one subsidiary. The cash outflow on disposal was £10 million net of cash disposed. On 1 February 2011 GSK disposed of
its entire 18% shareholding in Quest Diagnostics Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The sale
comprised a secondary public offering and an accompanying repurchase of shares by Quest Diagnostics which together generated a profit
on disposal of £584 million before tax.
Associates
Other and joint
acquisitions ventures Total
Cash flows £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 299 35 334
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (16) – (16)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 283 35 318
Total cash consideration payable, net of cash acquired 283 35 318
Deferred consideration (19) – (19)
Cash consideration paid, net of cash acquired 264 35 299
Net cash (outflow)/proceeds from disposals, net of cash disposed (10) 1,044 1,034
39 Non-controlling interests
The Group has one subgroup that has material non-controlling interests, ViiV Healthcare Limited and its subsidiaries. The ViiV Healthcare
group is focused on the research, development and worldwide commercialisation of HIV medicines. Summarised financial information in
respect of the ViiV Healthcare group is set out below:
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Turnover 1,371 1,337 1,537
Profit after taxation 190 492 422
Other comprehensive expense (9) (12) (14)
Total comprehensive income 181 480 408
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 76 (4) 71
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 106 51 119
2013 2012
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,273 2,323
Current assets 997 1,045
Total assets 3,270 3,368
Current liabilities (463) (422)
Non-current liabilities (2,253) (1,940 )
Total liabilities (2,716) (2,362)
Net assets 554 1,006
Non-controlling interests attributable to the subgroup 530 545
2013 2012 2011
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 637 620 385
Net cash outflow from investing activities (27) (31) (29)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (662) (350) (802)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts in the year (52) 239 (446)
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related adjustments.
Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
On 5 February 2013, GSK increased its shareholding in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ltd (India) from 43.2% to 72.5%
(representing an increase in shares held of 12,319,749 at a price of INR 3,900 per share) for £588 million. The carrying amount of the
non-controlling interests acquired was £58 million.
On 16 December 2013 GSK announced a voluntary open offer to increase its stake in GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited, its
pharmaceuticals subsidiary in India, from 50.7% to up to 75% (representing a maximum increase in shares held of 20,609,774 shares at a
price of INR 3,100 per share). The offer period began on 18 February 2014 and is expected to close in March 2014. As the announcement
of the offer obliged GSK to complete the purchase at the price offered, the risks and rewards of ownership of the shares are deemed to have
passed to GSK from that date. The carrying amount of the non-controlling interest deemed to have been acquired was £61 million and an
obligation of £620 million to pay the non-controlling shareholders was recorded in Other payables (see Note 27) at 31 December 2013.
186 GSK Annual Report 201340 Commitments
2013 2012
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 7,056 7,780
Property, plant and equipment 443 572
Investments 111 72
Purchase commitments 614 762
Pensions 510 368
Other commitments 233 268
Interest on loans 10,063 10,207
Finance lease charges 7 9
19,037 20,038
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development or
on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are achieved.
The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. A number of commitments were made in 2013 under licensing and other agreements,
including arrangements with Adimab LLC, Immunicore Ltd and MorphoSys AG. These new arrangements were more than offset by
reduced commitments due on prior year transactions including amendments to the agreements with ChemoCentryx Inc. and Panmira
Pharmaceuticals LLC.
In 2013, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension
deficit identified at the 31 December 2011 actuarial funding valuation. The table above includes this commitment, but excludes the normal
ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately £120 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are disclosed below. £322 million (2012 – £343 million) is provided against these
commitments on the Group’s balance sheet.
2013 2012
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 134 146
Rental payments due between one and two years 97 98
Rental payments due between two and three years 73 77
Rental payments due between three and four years 58 61
Rental payments due between four and five years 52 54
Rental payments due after five years 363 413
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 777 849
GSK Annual Report 2013 187Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
41 F inancial instruments and related disclosures Liquidity risk
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
GSK reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Sterling profits.
funding requirements. The cash flow forecast and funding
The role of Corporate Treasury is to monitor and manage the external
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis.
and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of the
The strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of
strategic objectives. GSK operates on a global basis, primarily
facilities and to maintain broad access to funding markets.
through subsidiary companies and manages its capital to ensure that
subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to optimise At 31 December 2013, GSK had £2.8 billion of borrowings repayable
returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and within one year and held £5.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents
equity. Treasury activities are governed by policies approved by the and liquid investments of which £3.3 billion was held centrally
Board of Directors, most recently on 9 July 2013. (including the disposal proceeds received at the end of December).
GSK also has access to short-term finance under a $10 billion
A Treasury Management Group (TMG) meeting, chaired by the Chief
(£6.0 billion) US commercial paper programme and $2.5 billion
Financial Officer, takes place on a monthly basis to review treasury
(£1.5 billion) was in issue under this programme at 31 December
activities. Its members receive management information relating to
2013. GSK has £1.9 billion five year committed medium-term
these activities. Internal audit reviews the Treasury internal control
facilities and $2.5 billion (£1.5 billion) of 364 day committed facilities.
environment regularly.
These facilities were put in place in September 2012 and September
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments to finance its operations 2013 respectively and were undrawn at 31 December 2013. GSK
and derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from considers this level of committed facilities to be adequate given
these operations. These derivatives, principally comprising forward current liquidity requirements.
foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps, are used to swap
GSK has a £15 billion European Medium Term Note programme and
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group
at 31 December 2013, £7.1 billion of notes were in issue under
purposes and to manage exposure to financial risks from changes in
this programme. The Group also has a US shelf registration
foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
statement and at 31 December 2013, had $15.5 billion (£9.3 billion)
GSK does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes and of notes in issue under this programme. GSK’s long-term borrowings
the Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All mature at dates between 2015 and 2045.
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the
GSK’s long-term credit ratings have remained unchanged since
risks arising from underlying business activities, not for speculation.
February 2008. GSK’s current ratings are A+ (stable outlook) by
Standard and Poor’s and A1 (negative outlook) by Moody’s Investors
Capital management
Service (‘Moody’s’). The Group’s short-term credit ratings are A-1
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities and and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the capital
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity. Market risk
GSK’s financial architecture is designed to support the delivery of the
Group’s strategy, and to enhance returns to shareholders. There are Interest rate risk management
four key priorities: delivering sustainable sales growth, improving GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and to
operating leverage, improving financial efficiency and converting more balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over time.
of our earnings into cash. The free cash flow generated can then be The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount of
returned to shareholders or reinvested in bolt-on acquisitions, floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of operating
wherever the most attractive returns are available. GSK continues to profit.
apply strict financial and returns-based criteria such as cash flow
GSK uses interest rate swaps to redenominate one of its bonds into
return on investment in order to allocate capital and assess
floating interest rates. The duration of these swaps matches the
investment opportunities, whilst protecting its credit profile.
duration of the principal instrument. These interest rate derivative
The business remains highly cash generative and in 2013 GSK instruments are accounted for as fair value hedges of the relevant
generated £4.7 billion in free cash flow. In addition, the Group liability.
realised £2.5 billion from divestments. In 2013 we returned a total of
£5.2 billion to shareholders, £3.7 billion in dividends and £1.5 billion
in share repurchases. Net debt at the end of the year was £12.6
billion, a reduction of £1.4 billion compared to the previous year.
In 2014, GSK expects to deliver continued dividend growth and as
part of the long-term share buyback programme is targeting share
repurchases of £1-2 billion depending on market conditions.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
£12.6 billion (see Note 32, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity of
£7.0 billion (see ’Consolidated statement of changes in equity‘ on
page 134). Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling
interests of £0.8 billion, is £20.4 billion.
188 GSK Annual Report 201341 F inancial instruments and related disclosures Corporate Treasury’s usage of these limits is monitored daily by a
Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO) who operates independently of
continued
Corporate Treasury. Any breach of these limits would be reported to
the CFO immediately. The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these
Foreign exchange risk management
counterparties and, when changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and
Treasury so that changes can be made to investment levels or to
external trade flows are not generally hedged. The Group’s objective
authority limits as appropriate. In addition, relationship banks and their
is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to
credit ratings are reviewed regularly and a report is presented annually
transaction risk by matching local currency income with local
to the TMG for approval.
currency costs where possible. GSK’s internal trading transactions
are matched centrally and inter-company payment terms are managed GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing surplus
to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency cash flows can be cash balances wherever possible. This is part of the Treasury strategy
hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury and to regionalise cash management and to concentrate cash centrally as
the TMG. Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or much as possible. GSK has continued to maintain its conservative
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using approach to counterparty risk throughout the period. The table below
forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the sets out the credit exposure to counterparties by rating for liquid
originating currency. In order to reduce foreign currency translation investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives. The gross
exposure, the Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the asset position on each derivative contract is considered for the
currencies of the principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily purpose of this table, although, under ISDA agreements, the amount at
denominated in US dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain borrowings risk is the net position with each counterparty. Table (e) on page 195
can be swapped into other currencies as required. Borrowings sets out the Group’s financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.
denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that match The £2.8 billion bank balances and deposits invested in Aa3/AA-
investments in Group overseas assets may be treated as a hedge rated counterparties at 31 December 2013 is significantly higher
against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major currencies are than the equivalent at 31 December 2012 as a result of the disposal
also used to reduce exposure to the Group’s investment in overseas proceeds received at the end of December 2013. Compared to last
assets (see ‘Net investment hedges’ section of this note for further year, there is a significantly higher amount of bank balances and
details). The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major deposits held with A2/A rated counterparties whilst the amount has
currencies monthly. significantly decreased with A3/A- rated counterparties. This is as a
result of GSK’s bank balances and deposits held with Citibank, which
Credit risk
have shifted due to Moody’s upgrading Citibank NA’s rating from A3
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December 2013 to be to A2.
£10,922 million (31 December 2012 – £9,469 million) which is the total
The £157 million invested with Baa3/BBB- rated counterparties
of the Group’s financial assets with the exception of ’Other investments’
includes bank balances or deposits with HDFC Bank, State Bank of
(comprising equity investments) which bear equity risk rather than credit
India, BBVA Venezuela, Halk and Emirates bank. These counterparties
risk. See page 191 for details on the Group’s total financial assets. At
are used either for local cash management purposes or for local
31 December 2013, GSK’s greatest concentration of credit risk was
investment purposes where GSK is not the sole shareholder.
£2.6 billion (2012 – £1.2 billion) with HSBC (Aa3/AA-), including the
disposal proceeds received at the end of December. The £1 million invested with a Ba2/BB rated counterparty relates
to an investment in Pakistan Government treasury bills and the
Treasury-related credit risk
£1 million held with an unrated bank is with Islandsbanki which is
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking and used for cash management purposes in Iceland.
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s.
Aa1/AA+ Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A A3/A-Baa1/BBB+Baa2/BBB Baa3/BBB- Ba2/BB Total
2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Unrated £m
Bank balances and deposits – 2,823 637 967 48 8 – 157 – 1 4,641
US Treasury and Treasury repo
only money market funds 893 – – – – – – – – – 893
Corporate debt instruments – 1 – – – – – – – – 1
Government securities 64 – – – – – – – 1 – 65
3rd party financial derivatives – 66 11 54 17 – – – – – 148
Total 957 2,890 648 1,021 65 8 – 157 1 1 5,748
Aa1/AA+ Aa3/AA- A1/A+ A2/A A3/A-Baa1/BBB+Baa2/BBB Baa3/BBB- Ba2/BB Total
2012 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Unrated £m
Bank balances and deposits – 1,189 825 412 860 7 – 158 5 – 3,456
US Treasury and Treasury repo
only money market funds 728 – – – – – – – – – 728
Corporate debt instruments – 7 – – – – – – – – 7
Government securities 74 – – – – – – – – – 74
3rd party financial derivatives – 8 37 33 20 – – – – – 98
Total 802 1,204 862 445 880 7 – 158 5 – 4,363
The credit ratings in the above tables are as assigned by Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s respectively. Where the opinion of the two rating
agencies differ, GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency data is the only source available, the
ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Moody’s or Standard and Poor’s using published conversion tables.
GSK Annual Report 2013 189Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
41 F inancial instruments and related disclosures The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
the fair values:
continued
• Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying amount
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £3.3 billion at
31 December 2013, all available within 3 months. This excludes £0.6 • Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices or calculated
billion centrally managed cash held by ViiV Healthcare, a 77.4% based on observable inputs in the case of marketable securities;
owned subsidiary. The Group has invested centrally managed liquid based on principal amounts in the case of non-marketable
assets in bank deposits and Aaa/AAA rated US Treasury and securities because of their short repricing periods
Treasury repo only money market funds (these bear credit exposure to • Other investments – equity investments traded in an active market
the US Government (Aaa/AA+ rated)). determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid
price; other equity investments determined by reference to the
Wholesale and retail credit risk
current market value of similar instruments or by reference to the
Outside the USA, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets
Group’s trade receivables balance.
• Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper – approximates
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition to instruments
hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the
three largest wholesalers amount to approximately 83% of the • Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the case of
Group’s US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover. At 31 December European and US Medium term notes and other fixed rate
2013, the Group had trade receivables due from these three borrowings (a level 1 fair value measurement); approximates to the
wholesalers totalling £835 million (2012 – £815 million). The Group carrying amount in the case of floating rate bank loans and other
is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these loans
wholesalers such that, if one or more of them encounters financial • Contingent consideration for business acquisitions after 1 January
difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial 2010 – based on present values of expected future cash flows
results.
• Interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts – based on the
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these present value of contractual cash flows using market sourced data
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial information (exchange rates or interest rates) at the balance sheet date
and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal
• Receivables and payables – approximates to the carrying amount
risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review of credit limits.
However, the Group believes there is no further credit risk provision • Company-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts surrender value
(see Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’).
• Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
The table on page 191 presents the carrying amounts and the fair
At 31 December 2013, the Employee Share Ownership Plan
values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 December
(ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £355 million
2013 and 31 December 2012.
(2012 – £391 million) and a fair value of £1,025 million (2012 –
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at £1,004 million) based on quoted market price. The shares represent
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer purchases by the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options
a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at and awards under employee incentive schemes. The carrying value,
the measurement date. which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares
has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves. At 31
December 2013, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £6,829
million (2012 – £6,602 million) which has been deducted from
retained earnings.
190 GSK Annual Report 201341 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2013 2012
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents e 5,534 5,534 4,184 4,184
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments:
– Government bonds 65 65 74 74
– other 1 1 7 7
Total liquid investments a 66 66 81 81
Other investments a 1,202 1,202 787 787
Loans and receivables:
Trade and other receivables and certain Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 b 4,932 4,932 4,907 4,907
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39 a,b 234 234 194 194
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e 76 76 80 80
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e 80 80 23 23
Total financial assets 12,124 12,124 10,256 10,256
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (3,288) (3,531) (3,279) (3,619)
– other bonds (13,034) (14,163) (12,876) (14,951)
– bank loans and overdrafts e (352) (352) (323) (323)
– commercial paper (1,491) (1,491) (1,748) (1,748)
Total borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases f (18,165) (19,537) (18,226) (20,641)
Obligations under finance leases (80) (80) (76) (76)
Total borrowings (18,245) (19,617) (18,302) (20,717)
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 c (7,989) (7,989) (7,730) (7,730)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 a,c (961) (961) (709) (709)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e (5) (5) (8) (8)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e (125) (125) (57) (57)
Total financial liabilities (27,325) (28,697) (26,806) (29,221)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (15,201) (16,573) (16,550) (18,965)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 190. Trade and other
receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities are reconciled to the
relevant Notes on page 193.
GSK Annual Report 2013 191Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available, the asset
or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable market data. If one or
more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified as Level 3. Other
investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities with which the Group has entered into
research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies. Other non-current liabilities classified as level 3 comprise
contingent consideration for business acquisitions.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 65 1 – 66
Other investments 1,000 – 202 1,202
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 232 2 234
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 76 – 76
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 79 1 80
1,065 388 205 1,658
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other payables – – (3) (3)
Other non-current liabilities – – (958) (958)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (5) – (5)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (124) (1) (125)
– (129) (962) (1,091)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2012 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 74 7 – 81
Other investments 589 – 198 787
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 194 – 194
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 80 – 80
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 22 1 23
663 303 199 1,165
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current liabilities – – (709) (709)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (8) – (8)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (55) (2) (57)
– (63) (711) (774)
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2013 2012
£m £m
At 1 January (512) 205
Net losses recognised in the income statement (262) (32)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 2 4
Contingent consideration liabilities for businesses acquired during the year (1) (696)
Equity investment converted into subsidiary on acquisition of business – (23)
Equity investment additions 45 44
Equity investment disposals (10) (7)
Transfers from Level 3 (17) –
Exchange (2) (7)
At 31 December (757) (512)
Net losses of £251 million (2012 – £24 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments held at the end of the year were reported in Other
operating income, of which £251 million (2012 – £13 million) arose from remeasurement of contingent consideration liabilities, principally the
contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. Net gains of £1 million (2012 – £nil)
were reported in Selling, general and administration. Net gains of £nil (2012 – £3 million) attributable to Level 3 equity investments held at the
end of the year were reported in Other comprehensive income as Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments.
192 GSK Annual Report 201341 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The net liability position of £757 million (2012 – £512 million) in respect of financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods
at 31 December includes £923 million (2012 – £670 million) in respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the
former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is expected to be paid over several years and will vary in line with sales of
Tivicay (dolutegravir). Regulatory approval for this product was obtained in the USA and Canada during the year and in the European Union in
January 2014. The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible
changes in key inputs to the valuation of this liability.
2013
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement from change in key inputs £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 105
10% decrease in sales forecasts (104)
1% increase in market interest rates (56)
1% decrease in market interest rates 62
(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall within the
scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Financial instruments
within the Other non-current assets balance include company-owned life insurance policies. Other assets include tax receivables, pension
surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2013 2012
At fair value At fair value
through Loans and Financial through Loans and Financial
profit or loss receivables instruments Other Total profit or loss receivables instruments Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 24) – 4,664 4,664 778 5,442 – 4,577 4,577 665 5,242
Other non-current assets
(Note 22) 234 268 502 387 889 194 330 524 158 682
234 4,932 5,166 1,165 6,331 194 4,907 5,101 823 5,924
The following table shows the age of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has been
made:
2013 2012
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 142 118
Past due by 31–90 days 152 129
Past due by 91–180 days 89 100
Past due by 181–365 days 64 71
Past due by more than 365 days 79 41
526 459
Amounts past due by greater than 90 days and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has been made total £232 million (2012 –
£212 million). Of this balance £133 million (2012 – £99 million) relates to receivables due from state hospital authorities in Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Portugal and Spain. The total receivables due from state hospital authorities in these countries (current and past due, net of provisions) is
£262 million (2012 – £257 million).
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions and Other non-current liabilities which
fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing. Accrued
wages and salaries are included within financial liabilities. Other liabilities include payments on account, tax and social security payables and
provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2013 2012
At fair value At fair value
through Other Financial through Other Financial
profit or loss liabilities instruments Other Total profit or loss liabilities instruments Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 27) (3) (7,798) (7,801) (516) (8,317) – (7,485) (7,485) (569) (8,054)
Other provisions
(Note 29) – (148) (148) (1,396) (1,544) – (157) (157) (1,235) (1,392)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 30) (958) (43) (1,001) (703) (1,704) (709) (88) (797) (635) (1,432)
(961) (7,989) (8,950) (2,615) (11,565) (709) (7,730) (8,439) (2,439) (10,878)
GSK Annual Report 2013 193Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the fair values of derivatives held by GSK.
2013 2012
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Fair value hedges – Interest rate swaps
(principal amount – £904 million (2012 – £920 million)) 18 – 54 –
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £7,221 million (2012 – £7,529 million)) 58 (1) 25 (8)
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £92 million (2012 – £242 million)) – (4) 1 –
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss 76 (5) 80 (8)
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £11,651 million (2012 – £10,270 million)) 74 (120) 18 (53)
Embedded and other derivatives 6 (5) 5 (4)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 80 (125) 23 (57)
Total derivative instruments 156 (130) 103 (65)
Analysed as:
Current 155 (127) 49 (63)
Non-current 1 (3) 54 (2)
Total 156 (130) 103 (65)
Foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading under IAS 39
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance sheet date. The Group’s
foreign exchange contracts are for periods of 12 months or less. At 31 December 2013, the Group held outstanding foreign exchange
contracts consisting primarily of foreign currency swaps with a net liability fair value of £46 million (£74 million asset less £120 million liability).
At December 2012 the fair value was £35 million net liability (£18 million asset less £53 million liability). The £11 million net liability fair value
increase from 2012 is due to additional hedging of inter-company loans and deposits, external debt and legal provisions that are not
designated as accounting hedges. Fair value movements are taken to the income statement in the period to offset the exchange gains and
losses on the related inter-company lending and borrowing, external debt and legal provisions.
Fair value hedges
The Group has designated a series of interest rate swaps as a fair value hedge. The risk being hedged is the variability of the fair value of the
bond arising from interest rate fluctuations. Gains and losses on fair value hedges are disclosed in Note 12, ‘Finance expense’.
The carrying value of bonds in a designated hedging relationship on page 191 includes £919 million (2012 - £970 million) that is designated
a hedged item in a fair value hedge relationship.
Net investment hedges
During the year, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency translation
risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro) and Japanese (Yen) foreign operations as shown in the table
above.
The carrying value of bonds in a designated hedging relationship on page 191 includes £2,369 million (2012 - £2,309 million) that is
designated a hedging instrument in a net investment hedge relationship.
Cash flow hedges
During 2013, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which it designated as cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange
exposure arising on Euro and US dollar denominated coupon payments relating to the Group’s European and US medium term notes.
At 31 December 2012, the Group designated a cash flow hedge of a foreign exchange exposure arising on the recognition of a liability
denominated in Indian Rupee in the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
In addition, the Group carries a balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds
issued during the year as disclosed in Note 32. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
194 GSK Annual Report 201341 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
The following tables set out the financial assets and financial liabilities which are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting
arrangements and similar agreements. Amounts which are set off against financial assets and liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet are set
out below. For Trade and other receivables, Trade and other payables, Derivative financial assets and Derivative financial liabilities, amounts
not offset in the balance sheet but which could be offset under certain circumstances are also set out.
Gross Net financial
Gross financial assets/ Related
financial (liabilities)/ (liabilities) amounts not
assets/ assets per balance set off in the
(liabilities) set off sheet balance sheet Net
At 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables 4,698 (34) 4,664 (25) 4,639
Derivative financial assets 156 – 156 (96) 60
Cash and cash equivalents 6,039 (505) 5,534
10,893 (539) 10,354
Trade and other payables (7,835) 34 (7,801) 25 (7,776)
Derivative financial liabilities (130) – (130) 96 (34)
Bank loans and overdrafts (857) 505 (352)
(8,822) 539 (8,283)
Gross Net financial
Gross financial assets/ Related
financial (liabilities)/ (liabilities) amounts not
assets/ assets per balance set off in the
(liabilities) set off sheet balance sheet Net
At 31 December 2012 £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables 4,586 (9) 4,577 (23) 4,554
Derivative financial assets 103 – 103 (29) 74
Cash and cash equivalents 4,712 (528) 4,184
9,401 (537) 8,864
Trade and other payables (7,494) 9 (7,485) 23 (7,462)
Derivative financial liabilites (65) – (65) 29 (36)
Bank loans and overdrafts (851) 528 (323)
(8,410) 537 (7,873)
The gross financial assets and liabilities set off in the balance sheet primarily relate to cash pooling arrangements with banks. Amounts
which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to
derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each party has the option to settle
amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
GSK Annual Report 2013 195Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper, before and after the effect of
interest rate swaps. The maturity analysis of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing
dates. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2013 2012
Effect of Effect of
interest interest
Debt rate swaps Total Debt rate swaps Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (2,762) – (2,762) (3,604) (970) (4,574)
Between one and two years (1,932) – (1,932) (970) 970 –
Between two and three years (751) – (751) (1,907) – (1,907)
Between three and four years (2,237) – (2,237) – – –
Between four and five years (1,653) – (1,653) (2,232) – (2,232)
Between five and ten years (1,936) – (1,936) (2,897) – (2,897)
Greater than ten years (6,894) – (6,894) (6,616) – (6,616)
Total (18,165) – (18,165) (18,226) – (18,226)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (16,432) 919 (15,513) (16,155) 970 (15,185)
Floating rate interest (1,732) (919) (2,651) (2,064) (970) (3,034)
Total interest bearing (18,164) – (18,164) (18,219) – (18,219)
Non-interest bearing (1) – (1) (7) – (7)
(18,165) – (18,165) (18,226) – (18,226)
The Group holds interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, to convert £919 million of fixed rate debt with a maturity of less than
one year (2012 – £970 million with a maturity between one and two years) into a floating rate exposure.
(g) Sensitivity analysis
Foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to
floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and
on the basis of the hedge designations as at 31 December. Financial instruments affected by market risk include cash and cash equivalents,
borrowings, trade receivables and payables and derivative financial instruments.
The following analyses are intended to illustrate the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The table below shows on an indicative basis only the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates on its US dollar, Euro and Yen financial
instruments.
These three currencies are the major foreign currencies in which GSK’s financial instruments are denominated. GSK has considered
movements in these currencies and has concluded that a 10 cent or 10 yen movement in rates against Sterling is reasonable.
In this analysis, financial instruments are only considered sensitive to foreign exchange rates where they are not in the functional currency of
the entity that holds them. Obligations under finance leases, inter-company loans that are fully hedged to maturity and certain non-derivative
financial instruments not in net debt are excluded as they do not present a material exposure. Foreign exchange sensitivity on Group assets
and liabilities other than financial instruments is not included in the calculation.
The movement in the income statement in the table below relates primarily to cash and cash equivalents, inter-company loans and deposits,
inter-company trading balances, hedging instruments for legal provisions and trade receivables and payables which are not denominated in
the functional currency of the entity that holds them. Whilst the hedging instruments provide economic hedges, the related remeasurement
of provisions is not included in the calculation.
2013 2012
Increase in Increase in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2012: 10 cent) 40 41
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2012: 10 cent) 8 29
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2012: 10 yen) 1 –
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following decrease in income £35 million, £6 million and £1 million for
US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2012 – £36 million, £25 million and £nil).
196 GSK Annual Report 201341 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The movements in equity in the table below relate to hedging instruments (foreign exchange derivatives and external debt) designated as a net
investment hedge to hedge the Group assets denominated in Euro and Yen.
2013 2012
(Decrease) in (Decrease) in
equity equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2012: 10 cent) – –
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2012: 10 cent) (840) (814)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2012: 10 yen) (21) (49)
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following increase in equity: £nil, £711 million and £19 million for US
dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2012 – £nil, £691 million and £42 million).
The table below presents the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates based on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 32
adjusting for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2013 2012
(Increase)/ (Increase)/
decrease in decrease in
net debt net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US dollar (2012: 10 cent) (447) (460)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (2012: 10 cent) 289 248
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (2012: 10 yen) 10 15
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would have the following impact on net debt: £396 million, £(244) million and £(9) million
for US dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2012 – £407 million, £(211) million and £(13) million).
Interest rate sensitivity
The table below shows on an indicative basis only the Group’s sensitivity to interest rates on its floating rate Sterling, US dollar and Euro
financial instruments, being issued debt, bank borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and liquid investments. GSK has considered movements
in these interest rates over the last three years and has concluded that a 1% (100 basis points) increase is a reasonable benchmark. Debt
and bank borrowings with a maturity of less than one year is floating rate for this calculation. Interest rate movements on derivative financial
instruments designated as fair value hedges are deemed to have an immaterial effect on the Group Income Statement due to compensating
amounts in the carrying value of debt. A 1% (100 basis points) movement in interest rates is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2013 2012
Increase/ Increase/
(decrease) in (decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates (2012: 1%) 13 5
1% (100 basis points) increase in US dollar interest rates (2012: 1%) 16 –
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (2012: 1%) (8) (12)
The increase in interest income is due to higher levels of indicative cash at the balance sheet date. These interest rates could not be decreased by
1% (100 basis points) as they are currently less than 1.0%. The maximum increase/(decrease) in income would therefore be limited to £(5) million,
£nil and £2 million for Sterling, US dollar and Euro interest rates respectively (2012 – £(2) million, £nil and £nil).
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative
financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. The impact of interest rate swaps has been excluded. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined
as all classes of borrowings except for obligations under finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without taking
account of future issuance. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign
currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. Contractual cash flows in respect of operating lease vacant space provisions are
excluded from the table below as they are included in the Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases table in Note 40, ‘Commitments’.
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2013 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (2,747) (674) (27) (2) (7,797) (11,247)
Between one and two years (1,936) (650) (22) (2) (108) (2,718)
Between two and three years (753) (594) (14) (2) (85) (1,448)
Between three and four years (2,246) (582) (8) (1) (116) (2,953)
Between four and five years (1,657) (467) (4) – (149) (2,277)
Between five and ten years (1,958) (2,032) (5) – (1,282) (5,277)
Greater than ten years (6,984) (5,064) – – (1,440) (13,488)
Gross contractual cash flows (18,281) (10,063) (80) (7) (10,977) (39,408)
GSK Annual Report 2013 197Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
41 Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2012 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (3,607) (690) (27) (3) (7,485) (11,812)
Between one and two years (920) (633) (19) (2) (129) (1,703)
Between two and three years (1,914) (610) (15) (2) (10) (2,551)
Between three and four years – (558) (8) (1) (34) (601)
Between four and five years (2,243) (549) (2) – (60) (2,854)
Between five and ten years (2,914) (1,967) (5) (1) (583) (5,470)
Greater than ten years (6,704) (5,200) – – (853) (12,757)
Gross contractual cash flows (18,302) (10,207) (76) (9) (9,154) (37,748)
The increase in contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities of £1.7 billion over the year results principally from an increase
of £1.6 billion in forecast future cash flows in respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV
Healthcare joint venture in 2012.
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments, excluding embedded
derivatives and equity options which are not material, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using
spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign exchange contracts are presented for the purposes of this table, though,
in practice, the Group uses standard settlement arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
The amounts receivable and payable in less than one year have increased compared to 31 December 2012 due to higher levels of hedging
of inter-company loans and external debt. This is reflected in the increased principal amounts shown in the table below.
2013 2012
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year 18,890 (18,871) 17,822 (18,047)
Between one and two years – – 20 (2)
Gross contractual cash flows 18,890 (18,871) 17,842 (18,049)
42 Employee share schemes
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at
the grant price, savings-related share option schemes and share award schemes. In addition, GSK operates the Performance Share Plan,
whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by the
Group of specified performance targets and the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in
GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period. The granting of restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options
to employees as the cost of the scheme more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee.
Grants under share option schemes are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants of restricted shares
and share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three year vesting/performance period. Grants under savings-related share option
schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. Grants under share option schemes and awards under the Performance Share
Plan are normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GSK plc but in some circumstances will be settled in cash. Options
under the share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK practice, the majority of
options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling at the date of grant. Share
options awarded to the Directors and the CET are subject to performance criteria.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options and awards to arrive at the share based payment charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has
been used. The assumptions used in the model for 2011, 2012 and 2013 are as follows:
2013 2012 2011
Risk-free interest rate 0.7% 0.1% – 0.5% 0.5% – 1.9%
Dividend yield* 5.3% 5.2% 5.8%
Volatility 20% 18% – 23% 24% – 28%
Expected lives of savings-related share options and share award schemes 3-4 years 3-4 years 3-4 years
Weighted average share price for grants in the year:
Shares £16.14 £14.35 £11.90
ADS $50.49 $45.57 $39.10
* 0% for those plans where dividends are reinvested.
198 GSK Annual Report 201342 Employee share schemes continued
Volatility is determined based on the three and five year share price history where appropriate. The fair value of performance share plan grants
take into account market conditions. Expected lives of options were determined based on weighted average historic exercises of options.
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 1 January 2011 110,100 £14.02 72,111 $45.73 5,955 £9.59
Options granted – – – – – – – – –
Options exercised (14,618) £11.97 (3,883) $38.61 (4,068) £9.55
Options lapsed (35,112) £17.27 (23,338) $51.21 (317) £9.70
At 31 December 2011 60,370 £12.62 44,890 $43.50 1,570 £9.68
Options granted – – – – – – 4,210 £11.59 £1.76
Options exercised (12,473) £11.97 (9,698) $39.33 (1,230) £9.67
Options lapsed (5,168) £13.28 (4,593) $45.99 (89) £9.82
At 31 December 2012 42,729 £12.72 30,599 $44.36 4,461 £11.48
Options granted – – – – – 1,092 £12.47 £2.33
Options exercised (20,355) £12.78 (12,099) $41.62 (241) £9.79
Options lapsed (2,112) £12.63 (1,192) $42.94 (210) £11.34
At 31 December 2013 20,262 £12.68 17,308 $46.37 5,102 £11.78
Range of exercise prices on
options outstanding at year end £10.76 – £14.93 $33.42 – $58.00 £11.59 – £12.47
Weighted average market
price on exercise £15.93 $49.88 £15.40
Weighted average remaining
contractual life 4.2 years 3.6 years 2.5 years
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
at 31 December 2013 schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Weighted Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise
Year of grant 000 price date 000 price date 000 price date
2004 1,545 £11.22 01.12.14 1,919 $43.42 01.12.14 – – –
2005 57 £13.09 01.11.15 195 $47.29 31.10.15 – – –
2006 2,854 £14.69 28.07.16 3,410 $51.33 28.07.16 – – –
2007 3,344 £14.80 25.07.17 4,055 $57.52 25.07.17 – – –
2008 2,829 £11.49 22.07.18 2,641 $45.04 22.07.18 – – –
2009 3,862 £11.76 22.07.19 1,930 $33.72 21.07.19 – – –
2010 5,771 £12.03 21.07.20 3,158 $37.28 21.07.20 – – –
2011 – – – – – – – – –
2012 – – – – – – 4,012 £11.59 01.05.16
2013 – – – – – – 1,090 £12.47 01.05.17
Total 20,262 £12.68 17,308 $46.37 5,102 £11.78
Options normally become exercisable from three years from the date of grant but may, under certain circumstances, vest earlier as set out
within the various scheme rules.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes - shares schemes - ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2011 42,432 £12.92 33,143 $46.33 – –
At 31 December 2012 33,930 £12.90 24,706 $46.10 261 £9.72
At 31 December 2013 20,262 £12.68 17,308 $46.37 – –
GSK Annual Report 2013 199Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
42 Employee share schemes continued
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Performance Share Plan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of each
award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested during the same period.
For awards granted from 2011 onwards to Directors and members of the CET, the performance conditions are based on four equally weighted
measures over a three year performance period. The first measure is based on the achievement of adjusted free cash flow targets. The second
measure is based on relative TSR performance against a comparator group. The remaining two measures are based on business-specific
performance measures on business diversification and R&D new product performance. For details on the calculation of these measures,
see the Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 126.
For awards granted in 2009 and 2010 to Directors and members of the CET, 40% of the award is based on the achievement of adjusted
free cash flow targets over a three year measurement period. The remaining 60% of the award is based on relative TSR performance against
a comparator group. Half of the TSR element of each award is measured over three years and half over four years.
For those awards made to all other eligible employees the performance conditions consist of two parts, each of which applies to 50% of
the award. The first part of the performance condition compares GSK’s EPS growth to the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over the
three year measurement period. The second part of the performance condition is based on strategic or operational business measures,
over a three year measurement period, specific to the employee’s business area.
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements, this is
adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2011 8,893 3,613
Awards granted 4,712 £9.66 1,740 $31.65
Awards exercised (660) (315)
Awards cancelled (2,404) (1,112)
At 31 December 2011 10,541 3,926
Awards granted 4,797 £11.43 1,645 $37.63
Awards exercised (1,388) (485)
Awards cancelled (1,794) (710)
At 31 December 2012 12,156 4,376
Awards granted 5,205 £13.36 1,603 $42.41
Awards exercised (1,022) (453)
Awards cancelled (2,977) (1,041)
At 31 December 2013 13,362 4,485
During the year 722,000 shares and 251,000 ADS were awarded through dividends reinvested. These are included above.
Share Value Plan
The Group operates a Share Value Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of shares, to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest
after three years and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing share
price on the day of grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield over the duration of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2011 14,252 10,978
Awards granted 10,923 £9.78 7,481 $32.02
Awards exercised (4,677) (3,698)
Awards cancelled (1,040) (680)
At 31 December 2011 19,458 14,081
Awards granted 11,411 £11.96 7,595 $38.51
Awards exercised (4,650) (3,410)
Awards cancelled (901) (478)
At 31 December 2012 25,318 17,788
Awards granted 12,011 £14.76 7,681 $46.04
Awards exercised (5,324) (4,009)
Awards cancelled (938) (622)
At 31 December 2013 31,067 20,838
200 GSK Annual Report 201342 Employee share schemes continued
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards
made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts purchase
shares on the open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. Costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged
to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the value of proceeds receivable from
employees on exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanent diminution in value this is reflected by a transfer to retained earnings. The Trusts
also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive
Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2013 2012
Number of shares (000) 63,613 75,066
£m £m
Nominal value 16 19
Carrying value 354 390
Market value 1,024 1,002
Shares held for share option schemes 2013 2012
Number of shares (000) 139 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 1 2
GSK Annual Report 2013 201Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
43 Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and associates of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31 December 2013. Details are given of
the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business sector and the business activities. The equity share capital of
these entities is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are incorporated in their
principal country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
England Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited * Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited * Ph,CH s
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited * Ph h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ph,CH f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Limited Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Brentford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph d r
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ph m p
Brentford Setfirst Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (i) (iv) Ph e
Brentford ViiV Healthcare Limited Ph h 77
Brentford ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ph m s 77
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ph m
Belgium Wavre GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d e m p r
Czech Republic Prague GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ph,CH m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph m r d
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ph p
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH m
Marly le Roi ViiV Healthcare S.A.S. Ph m 77
St. Amand Les Eaux GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ph p
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG CH h m s
Munich GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Ph d h m s
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d m
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. CH m
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph p
Poznan GSK Services Sp.z o.o. Ph m s
Republic of Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (i) Ph d p r
Ireland Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (i) CH m
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited (i) Ph m
Dungarvan Stafford Miller (Ireland) Limited (i) CH p
Dungarvan GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (i) CH p
Sligo Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (i) Ph p
Romania Brasov Europharm Holding S.A. Ph,CH s
Bucharest GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ph d m s
Russian Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Ph e m
Federation
Spain Madrid GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
USA
USA Research Triangle Park Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Ph m p
Marietta Corixa Corporation Ph p r
Philadelphia GlaxoSmithKline LLC Ph,CH d e m p r s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m p 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc. CH m
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Ph,CH h
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Ph,CH f
Research Triangle Park ViiV Healthcare Company Ph m 77
Rockville Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Ph p r
202 GSK Annual Report 201343 Principal Group companies continued
Americas Location Subsidiary Sector Activity %
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Ph m p
Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. CH m
Laval ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Ph d e p r
Mexico Mexico City GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ph,CH e m p s
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Beijing GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co. Ltd Ph,CH d h m r s
Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd CH e m p 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph m p 51
Gurgaon GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited CH d e m p r s 72
Malaysia Selangor GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn Bhd CH m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH e m p r 83
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ph,CH d e m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph d e p r s
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph,CH d e m s
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ph ,CH m r
Thailand Bangkok GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ph,CH m
Japan
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH e m p r
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Ph,CH d e m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela, C.A. Ph,CH m
Middle East & Africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E Ph,CH e m p 91
Nigeria Lagos GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (ii) Ph,CH e m p 46
South Africa Johannesburg GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ph,CH d e m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph,CH e m p
Middle East & Africa Location Associate Sector Activity %
South Africa Johannesburg Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited (iii) Ph,CH m p r 12
(i) Exempt from the provisions of section 7 of the Companies (Amendment) Act 1986 (Ireland).
(ii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds
of dominant influence.
(iii) Equity accounted on the grounds of significant influence.
(iv) I ncorporated in Ireland.
* Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Key
Business sector: Ph Pharmaceuticals, CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development, e exporting, f finance, h holding company, i insurance, m marketing, p production, r research,
s service
Full details of all Group subsidiaries and associates will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the UK Registrar
of Companies. Each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the
company, and the company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc.
GSK Annual Report 2013 203Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
44 Legal proceedings On 18 October 2011, the District Court issued a ruling that construed
the claims of the patent in a manner such that Arzerra would not
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative infringe the patent. Genentech and Biogen Idec stipulated to a
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, judgment of no infringement and filed an appeal of the claim
anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related private construction issue to the United States Court of Appeals for the
litigation. The Group makes provision for these proceedings on a Federal Circuit on 5 December 2011. The appeal was heard on
regular basis as summarised in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and 8 November 2012 and the court affirmed the District Court’s claim
policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. The Group may become construction giving effect to Genentech’ stipulation that the patent
involved in significant legal proceedings in respect of which it is not was not infringed. Genentech filed a request for rehearing en banc
possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, on 16 May 2013, which was denied on 15 July 2013, ending the case.
if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
Avodart/Jalyn
In these cases, appropriate disclosures about such cases would be
On 29 November 2010, Banner Pharmacaps, Inc. (Banner) notified
included but no provision would be made.
the Group that it had filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below, other (ANDA) to market a generic version of Avodart (dutasteride) in the
than those for which a provision has been made, the Group is unable USA. Banner’s notification contained a Paragraph IV certification
to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect at this alleging that two patents expiring in 2013 and one patent expiring
stage. The Group does not believe that information about the amount in 2015 (the ‘467 patent) covering the compound dutasteride were
sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful with invalid or not infringed by Banner’s proposed generic dutasteride
respect to those legal proceedings. This is due to a number of product. The Group subsequently received similar notices from
factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the Anchen Pharmaceuticals (Anchen), Apotex (Apotex), Roxane
entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories Laboratories (Roxanne), Watson Laboratories, Inc (Watson), and
of liability, damages and governing law. Intellectual property claims Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Mylan) each variously challenging either
include challenges to the validity and enforceability of the Group’s the ‘467 patent or all 3 patents.
patents on various products or processes as well as assertions of
On 29 December 2010, Anchen notified the Group that it had filed
non-infringement of those patents. A loss in any of these cases
an ANDA for Jalyn with a Paragraph IV certification alleging that the
could result in loss of patent protection for the product at issue.
‘467 patent was invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Jalyn, a
The consequences of any such loss could be a significant decrease
combination of dutasteride and tamsulosin, is covered by the same
in sales of that product and could materially affect future results of
three patents that cover Avodart. Subsequently, the Group received
operations for the Group.
similar notices from Impax Laboratories, Inc. (Impax) and Watson
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims challenging one or more of the patents covering Jalyn.
are charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions
The Group filed suit against Anchen, Banner, Impax, Mylan, Roxanne
are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice,
and Watson in the United States District Court for the District of
where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
Delaware for infringement of the Avodart and Jalyn patents, as
estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute. For certain
applicable, and the cases were consolidated for trial. On 31 August
product liability claims, the Group will make a provision where there
2012, the Group filed a separate suit against Apotex in the same
is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
court for infringement of the ‘467 patent. This case was not
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required
consolidated with the original case against the other generic
to cover unasserted claims. At 31 December 2013, the Group’s
defendants. On 31 May 2013, the Court ordered that the Apotex
aggregate provision for legal and other disputes (not including tax
case would be stayed pending the entry of judgment in the Banner
matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was £0.6 billion. The
et al case. On 17 January 2013, the Group and Anchen settled the
ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts provided
litigation on terms that would allow Anchen to enter the market for
and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings,
Jalyn in the fourth quarter of 2015 or earlier under certain
investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
circumstances. The Group previously had settled an earlier patent
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore, there challenge against Avodart by Teva Pharmaceuticals (Teva) on terms
can be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome that will allow Teva to launch its generic dutasteride product in the
of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the fourth quarter of 2015 or earlier under certain circumstances.
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial accounts. Teva’s generic dutasteride product was approved by the FDA on
If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse impact on 21 December 2010.
the results of operation of the Group in the reporting period in which
A trial on the consolidated case against the generic defendants
the judgments are incurred or the settlements entered into. The most
was held on 28 January 2013. On 13 August 2013, the District Court
significant of these matters are described below.
upheld the validity of the ‘467 patent. Banner, Impax, Mylan, Roxanne
Intellectual property and Watson appealed the decision in favour of the Group to the
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on 27 August 2013. On
Arzerra
24 February 2014, the Federal Circuit entered a decision in favour
On 23 March 2010, Genentech and Biogen Idec filed suit against of the Group affirming the decision of the District Court.
the Group in the United States District Court for the Southern District
of California alleging that the Group’s sale of Arzerra (ofatumumab),
which is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
for treatment of refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL),
induces and contributes to infringement of their patent that claims
the treatment of CLL with an anti-CD-20 monoclonal antibody.
The Group counterclaimed that the patent is invalid or not infringed.
204 GSK Annual Report 2013Benlysta In a separate component to the decision, the judge ruled that the
In September, 2012, the UK Court of Appeal refused an appeal by Eli Lupin generic version of Trizivir did not infringe the patent. Before
Lilly and Company (Eli Lilly) asserting that Human Genome Sciences, trial, Teva stipulated that its generic version of Epzicom would infringe
Inc. (HGS) UK Patent No. EP0939804 for Benlysta was invalid on the patent, and the District Court has enjoined Teva from launching
the grounds that it lacked the necessary information required to work its generic Epzicom product. The parties have appealed the
the invention described in the claims which covered antibodies (the judgements.
‘antibody claim insufficiency argument’). The UK High Court and the On 6 February 2014, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin had
UK Supreme Court previously had decided that the patent was valid filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification for Epzicom,
on all other grounds. In 2013, the UK Supreme Court refused the Eli alleging that the three patents listed in the Orange Book for Epzicom
Lilly petition for a further appeal and, as a result, the UK litigation has are either invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. These patents relate
now ended with the validity of the HGS patent being affirmed by the to a method of treating HIV using the double combination (expiring in
UK courts. 2016), the hemisulfate salt of abacavir (expiring in 2018), and a
Eli Lilly separately had requested a declaration from the UK High certain crystal form of lamivudine (expiring in 2016).
Court that any Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) filed by
Lexiva
HGS to extend its UK patent based upon any future Eli Lilly Marketing
On 23 April 2012, Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited (Ranbaxy) notified
Authorisation (MA) for an anti-BLyS antibody will be invalid. That
ViiV Healthcare that it had filed a Paragraph IV certification alleging
litigation is pending.
that a patent claiming a polymorphic form of fosamprenavir calcium,
On 12 September 2013, the Court of Justice of the European Union the active ingredient in Lexiva, was invalid or not infringed. The patent
(CJEU) heard arguments on the question of the meaning of expires in 2020. ViiV Healthcare did not sue under this patent.
“protected by a basic patent” and handed down its guidance on
On 30 July 2012, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Mylan) notified ViiV
12 December 2013. The CJEU did not answer the question whether
Healthcare that it had filed an ANDA for Lexiva with a Paragraph IV
Eli Lilly’s antibody is “protected” by the HGS patent, but confirmed
certification asserting that patents claiming (i) the active ingredient
that a functional definition of the product for which the SPC is sought
(expiring in 2018) and (ii) a polymorphic form of the active ingredient
is sufficient in principle if the claims of the patent relate “implicitly, but
(expiring 2020), are invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. Mylan is
necessarily and specifically” to the active ingredient covered by the
the second generic company to file an ANDA for Lexiva, but the first
SPC. The UK High Court must now implement the guidance from the
generic company to challenge the basic compound patent on the
CJEU to decide the case. A hearing date is yet to be set. The
active ingredient. On 23 August 2012, ViiV Healthcare and its
outcome of this litigation will have no effect on the Group’s ability to
market Benlysta. licensor, Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, filed a patent
infringement suit against Mylan on the patent claiming the active
Epzicom/Trizivir ingredient (but not the patent claiming the polymorph) in the United
On 30 November 2007, the Group’s affiliate, ViiV Healthcare, States District Court for the District of Delaware. Mylan subsequently
received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) had filed filed a declaratory judgment action against ViiV Healthcare alleging
an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification for Epzicom (the that the polymorph patent is invalid and not infringed. ViiV Healthcare
combination of lamivudine and abacavir). The certification challenged stipulated to non-infringement of the patent claiming the polymorph
only the patent covering the hemisulfate salt of abacavir, which and the parties filed a consent judgment on 20 December 2012 on
expires in 2018. ViiV Healthcare did not sue Teva under this patent. the polymorph patent. Trial is scheduled for 17 May 2014 for
On 27 June 2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Teva had infringement of the basic active ingredient patent for Lexiva.
amended its ANDA for Epzicom to contain a Paragraph IV On 18 October 2012, Ranbaxy filed a Petition for Inter Parties Review
certification for two additional patents listed in the Orange Book, in the United States Patent & Trademark Office (USPTO) alleging that
alleging the patents were invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. the basic compound patent covering the active ingredient is invalid.
The patents challenged in this new certification relate to a method of On 5 March 2013, the USPTO granted the petition. The Inter Parties
treating HIV using the combination (expiring in 2016), and a certain Review proceeding was settled in October 2013 on terms that are
crystal form of lamivudine (expiring in 2016). On 5 August 2011, ViiV confidential.
Healthcare filed suit against Teva under the combination patent in the
United States District Court for the District of Delaware. Lovaza
In March 2009, the Group received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals
On 18 May 2011, ViiV Healthcare received notice that Lupin Ltd.
USA, Inc. (Teva), Par Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Par), and Apotex Inc.
(Lupin) had filed an ANDA containing a Paragraph IV certification
for Trizivir (the triple combination of lamivudine, AZT and abacavir) (Apotex) had filed ANDAs with a Paragraph IV certification alleging
alleging that three patents listed in the Orange Book for Trizivir were that two patents covering Lovaza (omega-3-acid ethyl esters) are
invalid, unenforceable, or not infringed. The patents expire in March
invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. These patents relate to a
2013 and April 2017. The Group is the licensee under these patents
method of treating HIV using the triple combination (expiring in 2016),
and has marketing rights in the USA and Puerto Rico. Pronova
the hemisulfate salt of abacavir (expiring in 2018), and a certain
BioPharma Norge AS (Pronova), the owner of the patents, sued Teva,
crystal form of lamivudine (expiring in 2016). On 29 June 2011, ViiV
Par and Apotex in the United States District Court for the District of
Healthcare filed suit against Lupin under the patent covering the triple
Delaware. The Group was not a party to these suits.
combination in the United States District Court for the District of
Delaware. The District Court consolidated discovery in the Teva On 30 March 2011, Pronova entered into an agreement with Apotex
Epzicom case with ViiV Healthcare’s patent infringement suit against to settle their patent litigation in the USA related to Lovaza. The
Lupin relating to Trizivir, as both cases involve the same patent settlement grants Apotex a licence to enter the US market with a
covering the combination of lamivudine and abacavir. generic version of Lovaza in the first quarter of 2015. Other terms
of the settlement are confidential.
On 17 December 2013, the United States District Court for the
District of Delaware upheld the validity of the US patent with an expiry
date in March 2016 which covers the combination of lamivudine and
abacavir (Epzicom) and the triple combination of lamivudine, abacavir
and zidovudine (Trizivir).
GSK Annual Report 2013 205Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
A trial involving Teva and Par was held in March and April 2011, As of February 2014, the Group has reached agreements to settle
and in May 2012, the District Court held the patent valid and infringed. the substantial majority of federal and state cases pending in the US.
On 13 September 2013, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit Fourteen purported class actions on Avandia are pending in Canada.
ruled against Pronova in its patent litigation regarding Lovaza. The Group has reached an agreement in principle to resolve the
Reversing the District Court’s ruling, the Court found the asserted single purported consumer class action in Israel, which has now been
claims of Pronova’s U.S. 5,656,667 patent invalid and remanded the approved by the Court. The Group has been notified of 43 individual
case to the District Court with orders to enter judgment in favour of claims in the UK. Lawyers representing claimants in the UK have
the ANDA filers. Because the only other patent in the litigation, U.S. made an application to the High Court for the overall litigation to be
5,502,077, had expired earlier in 2013, the court found it unnecessary subject to a Group Litigation Order. The Court has listed the
to reach any issues regarding that patent. On 15 October, Pronova application for a hearing date of 6 June 2014.
filed a combined petition for panel rehearing and for rehearing en banc
There are a number of purported class actions seeking economic
with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Court denied
damages on behalf of third party payers and consumers asserting
both petitions on 16 January 2014, thereby affirming the 13
claims arising under various state and federal laws, including the
September 2013 decision of the Federal Circuit Court.
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), state
Pronova and the Group also have received Paragraph IV notices unfair trade practices and/or consumer protection laws. In addition,
from Endo Pharmaceuticals (Endo), Sandoz, Inc. (Sandoz), Strides three subrogation actions initiated by United Health Group, Inc. and
Arcolab, Ltd. (Strides) and Trygg Pharma AS (Trygg) advising that Humana Medical Plan (Humana) have been brought against the
they have submitted abbreviated applications to the FDA for a generic Group. One is a putative class action brought in the MDL Court
form of Lovaza. Pronova chose not to assert its patents against Endo, by Humana, which concerns Medicare Advantage claims. Briefing
Sandoz, Strides and Trygg while awaiting the ruling in the litigation in that action on threshold class certification issues remains pending.
against Teva and Par in the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The other two are state court actions which concern non-Medicare
The Group is not aware that the FDA has approved any generic Advantage claims. These actions are stayed until mid-June 2014
copies of Lovaza to date. to determine whether a private lien resolution program will resolve
these claims.
Veramyst
On 9 November 2011, the Group received notice that Sandoz, Inc. Paxil/Seroxat and Paxil CR
had filed an ANDA with a Paragraph IV certification for Veramyst The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging
(fluticasone furoate) nasal spray, challenging the three patents listed that use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries. Most
in the Orange Book for Veramyst as invalid, unenforceable, or not of these lawsuits in recent years have alleged that the use of Paxil
infringed. All three patents expire in 2021. On 23 December 2011, during pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child with birth defects
the Group filed suit against Sandoz in the United States District or health issues. Other lawsuits and claims have alleged that patients
Court for the District of Delaware on all three patents. A stay against who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts of
FDA approval of Sandoz’s generic product was in place until the violence or that patients suffered symptoms on discontinuing
earlier of a court decision adverse to the Group or May 2014. Trial treatment with Paxil.
had been scheduled to begin on 2 December 2013, but on 28
• Pregnancy
August 2013, the Group and Sandoz settled the litigation on terms
that would allow Sandoz to enter the market with a generic competitor The Group has reached agreements to settle the substantial
to Veramyst in the third quarter of 2016 or earlier under certain majority of the US claims relating to Paxil use during pregnancy
circumstances. as of February 2014, but a number of claims related to use during
pregnancy are still pending, including several scheduled for trial in
Product liability the Philadelphia state court Mass Tort Program (MTP). Other matters
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development have been dismissed without payment. In the US, the United States
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ruled in June 2013 that
products for use by humans following approval by regulatory GlaxoSmithKline LLC is a Delaware citizen for purposes of diversity
bodies. Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines jurisdiction in the US federal courts. As a result of this ruling, the
are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues Group has or is seeking to remove to federal court numerous cases
may become, or be claimed by some to be, evident. The Group is recently filed in the Philadelphia MTP and certain cases that were set
currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits related for trial in the MTP. On 27 November 2013, in the Thomas/Swindle
to the Group’s Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare matter, the Pennsylvania Superior Court upheld a summary judgment
products. The most significant of those matters are described below. in favour of the Group based on the expiration of the statute of
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected limitations. On 27 December 2013, the plaintiffs in this case
financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and has petitioned for allowance of appeal to the Pennsylvania Supreme
included a provision for the matters below in the provision for legal Court. The Group plans to oppose the petition for allowance of
and other disputes, as also noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. appeal. Currently, there are no trials scheduled in 2014.
There are two proposed, and one certified, class actions in Canada.
Avandia
The Bartram action has been certified in British Columbia as a
The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf of
national class action and relates to cardiovascular defects. An appeal
individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use of
from that certification decision was dismissed in October 2013, and
Avandia. The federal cases filed against the Group are part of a
the parties will therefore proceed to commence discovery.
multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (the ‘MDL
Court’). Cases have also been filed in a number of state courts.
206 GSK Annual Report 2013The Singh action in Alberta, also a proposed national class action, As of February 2014, the vast majority of individual cases previously
seeks to certify a class relating to birth defects generally. The pending in both the MDL and MTP have been dismissed, with fewer
certification motion is likely to be be scheduled for some time in 2014. than ten active cases in the MDL and one active case in the MTP still
There is also one inactive proposed national class action in British pending against the Group which is scheduled for trial on 10
Columbia which has been held in abeyance while the other November 2014. One individual lawsuit, as well as five purported
proceedings move forward through certification. class actions asserting consumer fraud claims were also filed in
Canada. In 2013, the individual lawsuit was resolved, and one of the
• Acts of violence
class actions was dismissed, leaving four putative class actions that
As of February 2014, there were 10 pending matters, including two remain pending in Canada. There are some filed and unfiled claims in
lawsuits on appeal (one pending in the United States Court of Turkey, the UK and elsewhere. The Group voluntarily withdrew all
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and the other pending in Florida’s zinc-containing formulations of Super Poligrip from the market in early
Second District Court of Appeal) concerning allegations that patients 2010.
who took Paxil committed or attempted to commit suicide
or acts of violence. Sales and marketing and regulation
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected
• Discontinuation
financial effect of the matters discussed in this category, and has
In the UK, in late 2010, public funding was withdrawn from the
included a provision for such matters in the provision for legal and
claimants who had received funding to pursue litigation alleging that
other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which the Group
Paxil/Seroxat had caused them to suffer from withdrawal reactions
has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
and dependency. The majority of the claimants discontinued their
claims. In June 2013, the Group was informed that the Legal Aid China investigation
Agency (LAA) (formerly the Legal Services Commission) is On 27 June 2013, a number of the Group’s Pharmaceutical offices in
considering whether to discharge the public funding certificate China were visited by government authorities of the People’s
following the recommendation of its Special Cases Review Panel that Republic of China (PRC). On 11 July 2013, the Ministry of Public
the case has poor prospects of success. The remaining claims have Security in China released a statement confirming an ongoing police
not been prosecuted pending the outcome of the LAA’s decision. investigation into alleged ‘serious economic crimes’ by GSK China.
The PRC, acting through various government agencies, continues its
Poligrip
investigation into alleged crimes and violations of law by GSK China’s
Beginning in 2005, a number of product liability lawsuits and claims
operations. The Group takes these allegations seriously and is
were filed against the Group in both state and federal courts in the
continuing to cooperate fully with the Chinese authorities in this
USA, including purported class actions, alleging that the zinc in
investigation.
Super Poligrip causes copper depletion and permanent neurologic
injury. The federal cases were consolidated in the Denture Cream The Group has informed the US Department of Justice, the US
Adhesive multi-district litigation (MDL) in the United States District Securities and Exchange Commission and the UK Serious Fraud
Court for the Southern District of Florida which was established in Office regarding the investigation. It is not possible at this time to
June 2009. Both the Group and Procter & Gamble were defendants make a reliable estimate of the financial effect, if any, that could result
in this litigation. Included in the MDL were four purported class from these matters.
actions asserting economic loss claims under state consumer
‘Colorado investigation’
protection laws and claims for medical monitoring. These original four
On 2 July 2012, the Group announced that it had reached an
putative class actions have now been dismissed. In 2013, a putative
agreement with the United States Government, multiple states and
class action was filed in Puerto Rico, which was removed to federal
the District of Columbia to conclude the Group’s most significant
court and transferred to the MDL where it remains pending as of
ongoing United States federal government investigations, specifically,
February 2014. With two current exceptions (one state court case
(i) the United States Department of Justice’s investigation into the
in Pennsylvania, and one state court case in small claims court in
Group’s sales and marketing practices relating to nine of its largest
Tennessee), all of the state court cases were consolidated in the
selling products, begun in February 2004; (ii) the Department of
Philadelphia state court Mass Tort Program (MTP).
Justice’s investigation of possible inappropriate use of the nominal
price exception under the Medicaid Rebate Program; and (iii) the
Department of Justice’s investigation of the development and
marketing of Avandia, for a settlement payment of $3 billion. The
settlement resolved criminal and civil liabilities related to these
investigations. The payment was covered by the Group’s existing
provisions and funded through existing cash resources. To date, 44
states and the District of Columbia have agreed to join the federal
settlement agreement and receive all or a portion of their share of the
settlement payment under the agreement.
GSK Annual Report 2013 207Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
The Group has been notified by a consortium of state attorneys Cidra third-party payer litigation
general that they are investigating the conduct underlying the On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers filed suit
non-Avandia federal and state sales and marketing settlements to against the Group in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania County Court of
determine if the company violated state unfair and deceptive trade Common Pleas seeking compensation for reimbursements they made
practices statutes. There are 45 states known to be participating in for medicines manufactured at the Group’s former Cidra plant in
the investigation. Puerto Rico. These insurers claim that the Group knowingly and
illegally marketed and sold adulterated drugs manufactured under
Avandia-related matters
conditions non-compliant with cGMP and that they, as third-party
As noted above, on 2 July 2012, the Group reached agreement with
insurers, were unlawfully induced to pay for them.
the US Government, a number of states, and the District of Columbia
to resolve the federal government’s Avandia investigation. The The suit alleges both US federal and various state law causes of
settlement resolved claims under federal/state Medicaid programs. action. On 12 August 2013, the Group removed the case to the
On 15 November 2012, the Group agreed to pay $90 million to settle United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
claims by 37 states and the District of Columbia under state and has moved to dismiss the complaint. Oral argument on the motion
consumer protection laws regarding the marketing and promotion to dismiss was held on 4 February 2013, and the motion is currently
of Avandia. under consideration by the District Court. The manufacturing issues
at the Group’s plant at Cidra were the subject of federal and state
In 2013, the Group agreed to pay $229 million to resolve the individual
claims that the Group resolved with the US federal Government in
lawsuits filed by the Attorneys General Offices of Kentucky, Louisiana,
2010 and for which the Group has compliance obligations under a
Maryland, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Carolina, Utah, and West
Corporate Integrity Agreement with the US Government.
Virginia asserting various statutory and common law claims relating
to the development and marketing of Avandia and, with regard to the Paxil/Seroxat
state of Louisiana, other of the Group’s products. These states had In 2004, the Group settled a lawsuit filed by the New York State
not participated in the federal government settlement. Attorney General’s office alleging that the Group failed to disclose
The Group is also defending an action by the County of Santa Clara, data on the use of Paxil in children and adolescents. In 2007 and
California, which was brought under California’s consumer protection 2008, the Group made class settlements of lawsuits brought by
laws seeking civil penalties and restitution. Pre-trial activities are consumers and third-party payers, respectively, for economic
scheduled to occur through Q2 2014. If the case proceeds to trial, damages allegedly resulting from prescriptions of Paxil to children
the MDL Court will send the case back to California federal court for and adolescents. The Group denied liability in these settlements. In
a bench trial. 2010, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a similar purported class action
filed on behalf of governmental entities that paid for prescriptions of
Two Native American groups (the Cherokee Nation in Oklahoma and
Paxil to minors. There remains a similar purported class action in
the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians) have filed lawsuits in their
Canada seeking economic damages on behalf of individuals who
respective tribal courts, alleging common law claims, including fraud,
purchased Paxil for use by patients under the age of 18. The
negligence, breach of warranty, and unjust enrichment. The Cherokee
certification application as part of this purported class action was
Nation matter relates to the sale and marketing of Avandia, whereas
adjourned in 2012, to permit the filing of further evidence, and is likely
the Choctaw complaint relates to Avandia and other Group products.
to resume in 2014.
Average wholesale price
SEC/DOJ FCPA enquiry
A number of states through their respective Attorneys General, and
The US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the US
most of the counties in New York State, filed civil lawsuits in state
Department of Justice (DOJ) initiated an industry-wide enquiry in
and federal courts against the Group and many other pharmaceutical
2010 into whether pharmaceutical companies may have engaged in
companies claiming damages and restitution due to average
violations of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) relating to
wholesale price (AWP) and/or wholesale acquisition cost (WAC)
the sale of pharmaceuticals, including in Argentina, Brazil, Canada,
price reporting for pharmaceutical products covered by the states’
China, Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and Saudi Arabia. The Group is
Medicaid programmes. These cases alleged that the Group reported
one of the companies that have been asked to respond to this enquiry
or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC prices, which, in turn,
and is cooperating with the SEC and DOJ. The Group has informed
allegedly caused State Medicaid agencies to reimburse providers
the DOJ and SEC about the investigation of its China operations by
more money for covered medicines than the agencies intended. The
the Chinese government that was initiated in 2013.
states have sought recovery on behalf of the states as payers and, in
some cases, on behalf of in-state patients as consumers. The Group Anti-trust/competition
has resolved AWP claims by state Medicaid programmes in almost
The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected
all of the states through the Group’s settlement agreement with the
financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and has
federal government announced in September 2005 and in multiple
included a provision for such matters in the provision for legal and
additional settlements since then. Litigation concerning AWP issues
other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which the Group
is continuing with two states, Illinois and Wisconsin.
has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
HIV division enquiry
On 26 July 2010, the Group received a subpoena from the Eastern
District of New York’s US Attorney’s Office regarding sales and
marketing practices for three HIV products, as well as educational
programmes, grants or payments to physicians regarding any drug
used to treat HIV-infected adults. On 5 September 2012, the Group
was advised that the US Government had concluded its investigation
and declined to intervene in a qui tam lawsuit filed in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of New York. The suit
has been dismissed and the matter is concluded.
208 GSK Annual Report 2013EU sector enquiry Flonase
In 2008, the European Commission launched an enquiry to Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions were filed in
investigate possible anti-competitive conditions in the pharmaceutical the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
sector. The Final Report of the Pharmaceutical Sector Inquiry was Pennsylvania alleging the Group illegally maintained monopoly power
published on 8 July 2009. As announced in the Final Report, the in the ‘market’ for Flonase and charged plaintiffs supracompetitive
Commission decided to continue monitoring patent settlement prices. Additionally, a suit was filed by Roxane Laboratories, Inc.,
agreements between originator and generic companies relating to a generic competitor, seeking lost profits from the Group’s alleged
EU markets. As a result, the Group has provided input to the reports actions unlawfully delaying Roxane’s entry into the market. The
published in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. On 3 February 2014 the predicate for all of these allegations was the filing by the Group
Group received a questionnaire relating to patent settlements during of allegedly sham citizen petitions and subsequent litigation.
2013. The Group responded to the Commission on 17 February
On 20 December 2012, the Group reached agreement to settle the
2014. No provision has been made for this matter.
litigation with the direct purchasers for a payment of $150 million and
EU enquiry: Tyverb and Combivir an agreement to settle with the indirect purchaser class and other
indirect purchasers for a payment of $45 million.
On 17 December 2012, the Group and ViiV Healthcare received a
request for information from the European Commission regarding the The court approved the class action settlements in 2013, and this
application of ‘direct to pharmacy’ distribution of the Group’s product, matter is concluded.
Tyverb, and ViiV Healthcare’s product, Combivir. The Group and ViiV
Lamictal
Healthcare have provided the requested information. No provision
has been made for this matter. Purported direct and indirect purchaser class actions were filed in
the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging
UK Office of Fair Trading Competition Act investigation that the Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to
On 12 August 2011, the UK Office of Fair Trading (OFT) launched delay generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in their being
a formal investigation of the Group and other pharmaceutical overcharged. A separate count accuses the Group of monopolising
companies for potential infringement of the Competition Act. The the market. The District Court recently denied the motion of the
investigation focuses on whether: (i) litigation settlements between purported direct purchaser class for reconsideration of the order
the Group and potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations, granting GSK’s motion to dismiss in December 2012. The plaintiffs
entered between 2001 and 2003, had as their object or effect the have filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for
prevention, restriction, or distortion of competition in the UK, and (ii) the Third Circuit. The Group also plans to move to have the purported
the Group has infringed its dominant position by making payments indirect purchaser class dismissed following the outcome of the
to potential suppliers of generic paroxetine with the aim of restricting direct purchaser case.
the development of full generic competition in the UK. The Group
Nevada vaccines antitrust litigation
terminated the agreements at issue in 2004. The OFT investigation
covers issues that were also investigated by the European The Vaccine Center, a for-profit vaccination centre in Las Vegas,
Commission in 2005 – 2006 in respect of paroxetine in the European Nevada, alleges that the Group, along with a vendor, engaged in
Union, and also in 2008, as part of the European Commission price discrimination by providing lower-priced vaccine products to
Pharmaceutical Sector enquiry. On 2 March 2012, the Commission the Southern Nevada Health District (a “340B” entity which is entitled
announced that it had formally concluded its enquiry with no further to lower-priced pharmaceutical products under a US federal
action. In March 2012, the OFT decided to focus its investigation healthcare program), allegedly creating a competitive disadvantage
on potential anti-competitive aspects of the paroxetine settlement and resulting in antitrust injury to The Vaccine Center. The complaint
agreements and dropped the investigation in relation to potential alleges violation of the Sherman Act, Robinson-Patman Act, and a
abuse of dominance. However, in February 2013, the OFT decided claim under Nevada state law. The Group has responded to the
to re-open the dominance aspects of the matter. complaint. No trial date has yet been set.
The Group has cooperated with the OFT in its investigations since Wellbutrin SR
the outset. On 19 April 2013, the OFT issued its Statement of
In December 2004, January 2005 and February 2005, lawsuits,
Objections (SO) setting out the decision that the OFT would propose
several of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the
to make and allowing the affected parties to make representations on
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
the proposed decision. The OFT’s core “theory of harm” is that the
against the Group on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of
transfer of value, from an originator company to a potential competitor, Wellbutrin SR. The complaints alleged violations of US anti-trust laws
made in return for restrictions on the potential competitor entering the
through sham litigation and fraud on the patent office by the Group in
market, necessarily restricts competition because it delays true obtaining and enforcing patents covering Wellbutrin SR. The
generic competition and the accompanying price reduction. This
complaints followed the introduction of generic competition to
includes the situation where value is transferred in the context of Wellbutrin SR in April 2004, after district and appellate court rulings
settling patent litigation. In the SO, the OFT states that it would
that a generic manufacturer did not infringe the Group’s patents.
propose a fine on GSK, but no details were provided on how any fine
might be calculated. On 7 August 2013, GSK submitted its response On 21 November 2011, the District Court approved the Group’s
to the SO, rebutting the OFT’s arguments, and, on 18 October 2013, settlement with the certified class of direct purchasers and the
GSK presented its case to the OFT at an oral hearing. After the settlement has been concluded. On 11 January 2012, the Group
hearing, GSK also responded in writing to some follow-up questions. reached agreement in principle to settle the claims of all the indirect
The OFT has indicated that it will decide how to proceed with this purchasers for $21.5 million. The District Court approved the
case in Q1 2014, with a final decision likely to be issued by October settlements in 2013, and this matter is concluded.
2014. The OFT’s decision may be appealed to the Competition
Appeal Tribunal. No provision has been made for this matter.
GSK Annual Report 2013 209Financial statements
Notes to the financial statements
Wellbutrin XL In addition to the private litigant suits, on 12 December 2011, the US
Actions have been filed against Biovail Corporation (Biovail) and the SEC filed a formal complaint against Stiefel and Charles Stiefel in the
Group in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of United States District Court for the District of Florida alleging that
Pennsylvania by purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers Stiefel and its principals violated federal securities laws by inducing
who allege unlawful monopolisation and other anti-trust violations Stiefel employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back
related to the enforcement of Biovail’s Wellbutrin XL patents and the to the company at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing
filing, by Biovail, of citizen petitions. Both direct and indirect to employees that the company was about to be sold. This matter
purchaser classes have been certified. The District Court granted the likewise has been stayed pending a ruling on the Finnerty appeal.
Group’s motion for partial summary judgment primarily on immunity The Group has made a provision for the Stiefel litigation.
grounds. On 7 November 2012, the District Court also granted the
Benlysta securities litigation
Group’s motion for a stay of all proceedings (except for a limited
On 10 November 2011, a class action suit was filed in the United
amount of ongoing discovery) in light of the US Supreme Court’s
States District Court for the District of Maryland alleging that Human
grant of a petition in the FTC v. Watson ’reverse payment’ patent
Genome Sciences, Inc. (HGS), certain of its individual officers and
litigation case.
directors and the Group made statements about the clinical trials for
On 19 December 2013, the District Court held a hearing in Benlysta that failed to disclose suicides among trial participants, and
connection with the remaining issue in the case, the possible that, by withholding this information, the defendants caused HGS’
antitrust liability arising from the settlement of the underlying patent stock to be artificially inflated, harming anyone who purchased HGS
infringement litigation. The court recently ordered the parties to stock at the inflated price.
submit a plan for additional discovery and proceedings on this
In November 2011, a second action was filed in the same federal
remaining issue.
court. The two cases have been combined. In May 2012, the Group
Commercial and corporate and HGS filed motions to dismiss the suits. Oral argument was heard
in September 2012. On 26 March 2013, the court ruled in favour of
Where the Group is able to make a reliable estimate of the expected
GSK and HGS on the motions. This matter is now concluded.
financial effect, if any, for the matters discussed in this category,
it has included a provision in respect of such matters in the provision
Environmental matters
for legal and other disputes as set out in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating to
No provision has been made for any of the following matters except
past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain sites,
as indicated below.
primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the subject of
Securities/ERISA class actions litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state
governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort
Stiefel
actions brought by private parties.
On 6 July 2009, a class action suit brought on behalf of current and
The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
former employees of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. (Stiefel) was filed in the
approximately 23 sites, of which 12 appear on the National Priority
United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The
List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
complaint alleges that Stiefel and its officers and directors violated
Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). These proceedings
US Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and federal
seek to require the operators of hazardous waste facilities,
and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their
transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous
shares in the employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly
waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse
undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that Stiefel
the US Government for cleanup costs. In most instances, the
was about to be sold to the Group. On 21 July 2011, the District
Group is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste.
Court denied plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. In October
2011, the District Court granted the defendants’ motions for summary Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and
judgment, dismissing all but one of the remaining plaintiffs in the severally liable for clean up costs, these proceedings are frequently
litigation. Trial of claims of that one plaintiff, Timothy Finnerty, took resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed
place in May 2012 and resulted in a $1.5 million jury verdict in favour of by the generator at the site. The Group’s proportionate liability for
of Mr. Finnerty on his securities claims. The Group has appealed the cleanup costs has been substantially determined for about 19 of the
verdict, and oral argument on the appeal is scheduled for 27 February sites referred to above.
2014. Separately, the Group has settled Mr. Finnerty’s ERISA claims.
The Group’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. While the
Additionally, Stiefel won a complete defence verdict in the Fried case,
cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over
tried in federal court in Florida in October 2013. The remaining case
time, be significant, the Group routinely accrues amounts related to
in Florida (Martinolich) has been stayed pending the outcome of the
its share of the liability for such matters.
Finnerty appeal. In addition to Finnerty, two other matters are on
appeal to the Eleventh Circuit: Bacon (in which summary judgment
was granted in plaintiff’s favour) and MacKay (in which summary
judgment was granted in Stiefel’s favour). Discovery continues in
the Georgia and New York suits. All of these lawsuits involve claims
similar to those brought in Finnerty.
210 GSK Annual Report 2013Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP
Directors’ statement of responsibilities Disclosure of information to auditors
in relation to the company’s financial statements The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each confirmed
that:
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company,
• so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration
of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
Report in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
• he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
UK Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware
elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in
of that information.
accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and
applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
Practice). Under company law the Directors must not approve the with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that
Going concern basis
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for
that period. After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to:
existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to
• select suitable accounting policies and then apply them adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
consistently;
The UK Corporate Governance Code
• make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
and prudent;
and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code maintained
• state with regard to the parent company financial statements that by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in the Corporate
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject Governance section on pages 82 to 95, and has complied with its
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent provisions. The Board further considers that the Annual Report, taken
company financial statements. as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s performance, business and strategy.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, the
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance in
the parent company financial statements and Remuneration Report relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code which
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible are specified for their review.
for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
The parent company financial statements for the year ended 31
Sir Christopher Gent
December 2013, comprising the balance sheet for the year ended
Chairman
31 December 2013 and supporting notes, are set out on pages
26 February 2014
213 to 216 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent company
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report
on page 212.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are
included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed form
and made available on our website. The Directors are responsible
for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on our
website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements. Access to the website is
available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may
be different.
The Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report include
a fair review of the development and performance of the business
and the position of the company and the Group taken as a whole,
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
that it faces.
GSK Annual Report 2013 211Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the Parent Company financial statements Other matters on which we are required to report by exception
Our Opinion Adequacy of accounting records and information and
explanations received
In our opinion, the Parent Company financial statements defined
below: Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if,
in our opinion:
• g ive a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Company’s
affairs at 31 December 2013; • we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
• h ave been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent
Company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
• h ave been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
from branches not visited by us; or
Companies Act 2006.
• the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in
remainder of this report.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
What we have audited We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by
Directors’ remuneration
GlaxoSmithKline plc, comprise:
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if,
• t he Parent Company balance sheet at 31 December 2013; and in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
• t he notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which specified by law have not been made. We have no exceptions to
include a summary of significant accounting policies and other report arising from this responsibility.
explanatory information.
Other information in the Annual Report
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our
preparation comprises applicable law and United Kingdom opinion, information in the Annual Report is:
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
• m aterially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent
Accounting Practice).
Company financial statements; or
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have
• a pparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of
with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course
significant accounting estimates. In making such estimates, they have
of performing our audit; or
made assumptions and considered future events.
• i s otherwise misleading.
What an audit of financial statements involves
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing (UK & Ireland) (“ISAs (UK & Ireland)”). An audit involves Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Our responsibilities and those of the directors
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by As explained more fully in the Directors’ statement of responsibilities
fraud or error. This includes an assessment of: set out on page 211, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied
• w hether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent
that they give a true and fair view.
Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed; Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent
Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and
• t he reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by
ISAs (UK & Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the
the directors; and
Auditing Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
• t he overall presentation of the financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3
the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We
audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is
materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly
course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent agreed by our prior consent in writing.
material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the
implications for our report. Other matter
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
In our opinion:
The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
• The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company name should not be stated.
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent
Company financial statements and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
• The part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act London
2006. 26 February 2014
212 GSK Annual Report 2013Company balance sheet – UK GAAP at 31 December 2013
2013 2012
Notes £m £m
Fixed assets – investments E 19,691 19,689
Debtors F 3,358 7,872
Cash at bank 12 10
Current assets 3,370 7,882
Creditors: amounts due within one year G (531) (406)
Net current assets 2,839 7,476
Net assets 22,530 27,165
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital H 1,336 1,349
Share premium account H 2,595 2,022
Other reserves I 1,420 1,393
Profit and loss account I 17,179 22,401
Equity shareholders’ funds 22,530 27,165
The financial statements on pages 213 to 216 were approved by the Board on 26 February 2014 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792
GSK Annual Report 2013 213Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
A) Presentation of the financial statements when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
Description of business
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global estimated.
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery,
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical Investments in subsidiary companies
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
and health-related consumer products.
provision for impairment.
Preparation of financial statements
Impairment of investments
The financial statements, which are prepared on a going concern
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
basis, are drawn up in accordance with UK Generally Accepted
when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
Accounting Practice (UK GAAP) and with UK accounting
Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to
presentation as at 31 December 2013, with comparative figures as
the income statement in the year concerned.
at 31 December 2012. Where appropriate, comparative figures are
reclassified to ensure a consistent presentation with current year
Share based payments
information.
The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the profit the company’s shares, represents additional capital contributions
and loss account of the company is not presented in this Annual by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in
Report. subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’
The company is included in the Group accounts of GlaxoSmithKline equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of
plc, which are publicly available. Advantage has been taken of the the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
exemption provided by FRS 1 ‘Cash flow statements (revised 1996)’
Taxation
not to prepare a cash flow statement and of the exemption provided
by FRS 8 ‘Related party disclosures’ not to disclose any related party Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
transactions within the Group. tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the
balance sheet date.
Accounting convention and standards
The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost by reason of timing differences which have originated but not
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting standards. reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only
recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable against
Accounting principles and policies
future taxable profits.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts could
differ from those estimates. Financial guarantees
Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf of
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and amortised over
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and described
the life of the guarantee.
in Note B.
C) O perating profit
B) Accounting policies
A fee of £10,299 (2012 – £10,132) relating to the audit of the
Foreign currency transactions company has been charged in operating profit.
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate
ruling on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by a D) Dividends
forward exchange contract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are The directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend
translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, or at for the year of 78 pence, a 4 pence increase on the dividend for
the forward rate. 2012. For further details, see Note 16 to the Group financial.
statements, ‘Dividends’.
Dividends paid and received
Dividends paid and received are included in the accounts in the
period in which the related dividends are actually paid or received.
214 GSK Annual Report 2013Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP continued
E) Fixed assets – investments
2013 2012
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
18,552 18,552
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 1,139 1,137
19,691 19,689
F) Debtors
2013 2012
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 203 206
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2,761 7,319
2,964 7,525
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 394 347
3,358 7,872
G) Creditors
2013 2012
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Bank overdraft 10 10
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 61 –
Other creditors 460 396
531 406
The company has guaranteed debt issued by one of its subsidiary companies for which it receives an annual fee from the subsidiary. In
aggregate, the company has outstanding guarantees over $10.5 billion of debt instruments.
The amounts due from the subsidiary companies in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are
disclosed within debtors (see Note F).
GSK Annual Report 2013 215Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP continued
H) Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2012 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2013 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2012 5,550,203,098 1,387 1,673
Issued under employee share schemes 28,045,821 7 349
Share capital cancelled (180,652,950) (45) –
At 31 December 2012 5,397,595,969 1,349 2,022
Issued under employee share schemes 44,610,727 12 573
Share capital cancelled (100,000,000) (25) –
At 31 December 2013 5,342,206,696 1,336 2,595
31 December 31 December
2013 2012
000 000
Number of shares issuable under outstanding options 91,303 114,985
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,566,351 4,487,419
At 31 December 2013, of the issued share capital, 63,613,528 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 487,433,663 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,791,159,505 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of the
shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 42, ‘Employee share schemes’.
A total of 92 million shares were purchased by the company during 2013 at a cost of £1,504 million and 100 million shares were cancelled.
The company expects to make further share repurchases of £1–2 billion during 2014. The exact amount and timing of further purchases and
whether the shares will be held as Treasury shares or be cancelled will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions
and other factors. No shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2014 to 5 February 2014.
I) Reserves
Other Profit and
reserves loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 1 January 2012 1,339 18,689 20,028
Profit attributable to shareholders – 10,019 10,019
Dividends to shareholders – (3,814) (3,814)
Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury share 45 (2,493) (2,448)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 9 – 9
At 31 December 2012 1,393 22,401 23,794
Profit attributable to shareholders – (38) (38)
Dividends to shareholders – (3,680) (3,680)
Shares purchased and cancelled or held as Treasury share 25 (1,504) (1,479)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 2 – 2
At 31 December 2013 1,420 17,179 18,599
The loss of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £38 million (2012 – £10,019 million profit), which after dividends of £3,680 million
(2012 – £3,814 million), gave a retained loss of £3,718 million (2012 – £6,205 million profit). After the cost of shares purchased and cancelled
or held as Treasury shares of £1,504 million (2012 – £2,493), the profit and loss account reserve at 31 December 2013 stood at £17,179 million
(2012 – £22,401 million), of which £4,096 million is unrealised (2012 – £4,096 million).
216 GSK Annual Report 2013Investor
information
In this section
Quarterly trend 218
Five year record 222
Product development pipeline 225
Products, competition and
intellectual property 229
Risk factors 232
Share capital and share price 242
Dividends 244
Tax information for shareholders 244
Annual General Meeting 2014 245
US law and regulation 247
Shareholder services and contacts 249
Glossary of terms and index 251
GSK Annual Report 2013 217Investor information
Financial record
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2013.
Income statement – total 12 months 2013 Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 21,318 1 – 5,688 6 3 5,197 – (1) 5,309 1 2 5,124 (2) (3)
– Consumer Healthcare 5,187 2 – 1,218 – (4) 1,313 4 2 1,309 2 3 1,347 1 –
Total turnover 26,505 1 – 6,906 5 2 6,510 1 – 6,618 2 2 6,471 (2) (3)
Cost of sales (8,585) 8 8 (2,526) 26 25 (2,111) 1 1 (1,972) (3) (1) (1,976) 9 9
Selling, general and administration (8,480) (3) (4) (2,200) 2 – (1,984) (14) (11) (2,216) (2) 1 (2,080) 3 (3)
Research and development (3,923) (2) (1) (1,070) (6) (6) (900) (5) (4) (1,049) 12 14 (904) (7) (7)
Royalty income 387 25 26 98 28 29 94 1 2 82 23 24 113 56 57
Other operating income 1,124 1,233 (40) (25) (44)
Operating profit 7,028 (1) (4) 2,441 36 27 1,569 1 (5) 1,438 (13) (16) 1,580 (26) (22)
Net finance costs (706) (159) (181) (186) (180)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates and joint ventures 282 253 – 29 –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 43 11 14 7 11
Profit before taxation 6,647 4 1 2,546 57 47 1,402 1 (6) 1,288 (12) (16) 1,411 (29) (24)
Taxation (1,019) (41) (392) (204) (382)
Tax rate % 15.3% 1.6% 28.0% 15.8% 27.1%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,628 24 20 2,505 >100 >100 1,010 (7) (14) 1,084 (14) (17) 1,029 (30) (25)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 192 44 41 39 68
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,436 2,461 969 1,045 961
Basic earnings per share (pence) 112.5p 27 23 51.3p >100 >100 20.0p (4) (12) 21.5p (11) (14) 19.9p (30) (25)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 110.5p 50.4p 19.7p 21.2p 19.6p
Income statement – core
Total turnover 26,505 1 – 6,906 5 2 6,510 1 – 6,618 2 2 6,471 (2) (3)
Cost of sales (7,549) 6 6 (2,006) 10 9 (1,878) 2 1 (1,818) 5 7 (1,847) 8 7
Selling, general and administration (7,928 ) 1 – (2,005 ) 6 3 (1,876) (6 ) (4 ) (2,092 ) 3 6 (1,955 ) 2 (5 )
Research and development (3,400) (3) (2) (905) 9 8 (791) (10) (9) (847) (6) (4) (857) (4) (4)
Royalty income 387 25 26 98 28 29 94 1 2 82 23 24 113 56 57
Operating profit 8,015 – (3) 2,088 (1) (8) 2,059 11 6 1,943 – (2) 1,925 (11) (6)
Net finance costs (692) (155) (178) (183) (176)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 43 11 14 7 11
Profit before taxation 7,366 – (2) 1,944 1 (7) 1,895 12 7 1,767 1 (2) 1,760 (12) (7)
Taxation (1,695) (431) (446) (424) (394)
Tax rate % 23.0% 22.2% 23.5% 24.0% 22.4%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,671 2 (1) 1,513 1 (7) 1,449 13 8 1,343 3 – 1,366 (8) (3)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 250 69 49 64 68
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,421 1,444 1,400 1,279 1,298
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 112.2p 4 1 30.1p 1 (7) 28.9p 16 10 26.3p 4 1 26.9p (6) –
The calculation of core results is described on page 58.
218 GSK Annual Report 2013Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2013.
Income statement – total 12 months 2013 Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Turnover – Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 21,318 1 – 5,688 6 3 5,197 – (1) 5,309 1 2 5,124 (2) (3)
– Consumer Healthcare 5,187 2 – 1,218 – (4) 1,313 4 2 1,309 2 3 1,347 1 –
Total turnover 26,505 1 – 6,906 5 2 6,510 1 – 6,618 2 2 6,471 (2) (3)
Cost of sales (8,585) 8 8 (2,526) 26 25 (2,111) 1 1 (1,972) (3) (1) (1,976) 9 9
Selling, general and administration (8,480) (3) (4) (2,200) 2 – (1,984) (14) (11) (2,216) (2) 1 (2,080) 3 (3)
Research and development (3,923) (2) (1) (1,070) (6) (6) (900) (5) (4) (1,049) 12 14 (904) (7) (7)
Royalty income 387 25 26 98 28 29 94 1 2 82 23 24 113 56 57
Other operating income 1,124 1,233 (40) (25) (44)
Operating profit 7,028 (1) (4) 2,441 36 27 1,569 1 (5) 1,438 (13) (16) 1,580 (26) (22)
Net finance costs (706) (159) (181) (186) (180)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates and joint ventures 282 253 – 29 –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 43 11 14 7 11
Profit before taxation 6,647 4 1 2,546 57 47 1,402 1 (6) 1,288 (12) (16) 1,411 (29) (24)
Taxation (1,019) (41) (392) (204) (382)
Tax rate % 15.3% 1.6% 28.0% 15.8% 27.1%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,628 24 20 2,505 >100 >100 1,010 (7) (14) 1,084 (14) (17) 1,029 (30) (25)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 192 44 41 39 68
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,436 2,461 969 1,045 961
Basic earnings per share (pence) 112.5p 27 23 51.3p >100 >100 20.0p (4) (12) 21.5p (11) (14) 19.9p (30) (25)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 110.5p 50.4p 19.7p 21.2p 19.6p
Income statement – core
Total turnover 26,505 1 – 6,906 5 2 6,510 1 – 6,618 2 2 6,471 (2) (3)
Cost of sales (7,549) 6 6 (2,006) 10 9 (1,878) 2 1 (1,818) 5 7 (1,847) 8 7
Selling, general and administration (7,928 ) 1 – (2,005 ) 6 3 (1,876) (6 ) (4 ) (2,092 ) 3 6 (1,955 ) 2 (5 )
Research and development (3,400) (3) (2) (905) 9 8 (791) (10) (9) (847) (6) (4) (857) (4) (4)
Royalty income 387 25 26 98 28 29 94 1 2 82 23 24 113 56 57
Operating profit 8,015 – (3) 2,088 (1) (8) 2,059 11 6 1,943 – (2) 1,925 (11) (6)
Net finance costs (692) (155) (178) (183) (176)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 43 11 14 7 11
Profit before taxation 7,366 – (2) 1,944 1 (7) 1,895 12 7 1,767 1 (2) 1,760 (12) (7)
Taxation (1,695) (431) (446) (424) (394)
Tax rate % 23.0% 22.2% 23.5% 24.0% 22.4%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,671 2 (1) 1,513 1 (7) 1,449 13 8 1,343 3 – 1,366 (8) (3)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 250 69 49 64 68
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,421 1,444 1,400 1,279 1,298
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 112.2p 4 1 30.1p 1 (7) 28.9p 16 10 26.3p 4 1 26.9p (6) –
The calculation of core results is described on page 58.
GSK Annual Report 2013 219Investor information
Financial record
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area 2013
Total USA Europe EMAP Rest of World
2012
Therapeutic area/ 2013 (restated) Growth 2013 Growth 2013 Growth 2013 Growth 2013 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 7,516 7,291 4 3 3,655 7 8 1,907 (3) – 877 4 2 1,077 6 (5)
Avamys/Veramyst 249 246 5 1 42 (29) (29) 69 8 11 71 16 13 67 23 8
Flixonase/Flonase 110 133 (14) (17) 7 (50) (50) 31 (6) (3) 49 (14) (14) 23 (7) (23)
Flixotide/Flovent 796 779 2 2 482 6 8 117 (7) (4) 58 7 5 139 (3) (10)
Seretide/Advair 5,274 5,046 4 5 2,769 8 9 1,458 (2) 1 429 4 3 618 6 (5)
Serevent 129 145 (10) (11) 51 (2) – 55 (17) (14) 4 33 33 19 (15) (30)
Ventolin 642 631 2 2 291 4 5 127 (2) 1 171 2 – 53 (4) (7)
Xyzal 137 129 26 6 – – – – – – 18 6 13 119 28 5
Zyrtec 76 81 4 (6) – – – – – – 41 17 14 35 (7) (22)
Other 103 101 4 2 13 100 >100 50 (9) (6) 36 – (10) 4 >100 100
Anti-virals 667 753 (6) (11) 57 (2) – 66 (14) (11) 293 (20) (19) 251 14 (4)
Hepsera 96 126 (21) (24) – – – – – – 70 (28) (26) 26 – (16)
Valtrex 224 252 (2) (11) 45 26 29 29 (15) (12) 40 11 8 110 (10) (25)
Zovirax 81 89 (4) (9) 1 (67) (67) 19 (10) (10) 35 3 – 26 (3) (13)
Zeffix 182 243 (26) (25) 13 (13) (13) 12 (25) (25) 140 (28) (26) 17 (17) (29)
Other 84 43 >100 95 (2) <(100) <(100) 6 25 50 8 60 60 72 >100 >100
Central nervous
system 1,483 1,670 (8) (11) 440 (15) (14) 355 (11) (8) 341 7 4 347 (8) (22)
Imigran/Imitrex 188 190 1 (1) 80 11 11 63 (7) (6) 7 – – 38 (5) (12)
Lamictal 557 610 (7) (9) 276 (18) (17) 110 (4) (2) 78 8 4 93 21 2
Requip 125 164 (18) (24) 7 (63) (63) 52 (33) (32) 14 – – 52 15 (5)
Seroxat/Paxil 285 374 (16) (24) – 100 100 53 (11) (7) 79 (4) (6) 153 (23) (35)
Wellbutrin 97 84 14 15 16 33 33 51 11 16 30 7 7 – – –
Other 231 248 (5) (7) 61 (21) (20) 26 (20) (13) 133 14 10 11 (38) (48)
Cardiovascular
and urogenital 2,239 2,431 (8) (8) 1,244 (16) (15) 533 2 6 281 (2) (4) 181 18 4
Arixtra 167 195 (15) (14) 50 (26) (26) 84 (12) (8) 28 – – 5 (13) (38)
Avodart 857 790 10 8 312 (3) (2) 273 15 20 104 27 24 168 20 4
Coreg 131 133 (2) (2) 130 (2) (2) – – – – – – 1 – –
Fraxiparine 221 233 (7) (5) – – – 138 (8) (5) 83 (6) (5) – (100) (100)
Lovaza 584 607 (5) (4) 581 (5) (4) – – – – – – 3 – –
Other 279 473 (42) (41) 171 (51) (50) 38 (8) (5) 66 (26) (29) 4 – –
Metabolic 174 171 10 2 4 >100 >100 42 41 45 68 9 5 60 (20) (31)
Other 174 171 10 2 4 >100 >100 42 41 45 68 9 5 60 (20) (31)
Anti-bacterials 1,239 1,247 – (1) 27 30 35 393 (6) (2) 750 5 2 69 (15) (22)
Augmentin 630 608 5 4 1 – – 203 (3) – 393 11 7 33 (5) (13)
Other 609 639 (4) (5) 26 32 37 190 (9) (5) 357 (1) (3) 36 (22) (29)
Oncology and
emesis 969 798 22 21 380 17 18 339 28 32 149 18 14 101 27 12
Arzerra 75 60 23 25 46 18 21 27 29 29 – – – 2 100 100
Promacta 186 130 46 43 73 33 35 55 47 53 22 92 83 36 50 29
Tyverb/Tykerb 207 239 (13) (13) 55 (21) (19) 82 (9) (6) 47 (9) (13) 23 (10) (23)
Votrient 331 183 80 81 144 56 58 130 91 97 37 77 68 20 >100 >100
Other 170 186 (9) (9) 62 (10) (11) 45 (9) (2) 43 2 – 20 (26) (26)
Dermatology 770 850 (8) (9) 140 (40) (39) 170 5 8 397 6 2 63 (9) (19)
Bactroban 98 124 (19) (21) 29 (45) (43) 24 (12) (8) 38 5 (3) 7 - (13)
Duac 72 87 (17) (17) 15 (61) (61) 29 17 21 16 38 23 12 (8) -
Other 600 639 (4) (6) 96 (32) (31) 117 7 9 343 5 2 44 (11) (23)
Rare diseases 495 495 7 – 113 (4) (3) 129 1 5 48 2 – 205 17 (1)
Flolan 147 135 21 16 – – – 82 10 12 11 22 22 54 40 20
Volibris 103 127 (16) (24) 25 (24) (24) 18 (26) (22) – – – 60 (9) (24)
Other 245 233 12 5 88 4 5 29 – 7 37 (3) (5) 91 30 10
Immuno-
inflammation 161 70 >100 >100 148 >100 >100 8 100 100 1 – – 4 >100 >100
Benlysta 146 70 >100 >100 134 >100 >100 8 100 100 1 – – 3 100 >100
Other 15 – – – 14 – – – – – – – – 1 – –
Other
pharmaceuticals 799 786 6 2 6 (74) (68) 175 (7) (2) 369 (3) (10) 249 48 37
Vaccines 3,420 3,325 2 3 978 17 18 1,049 3 7 1,124 1 2 269 (31) (35)
Boostrix 288 238 19 21 183 23 24 65 19 23 20 25 25 20 (9) (9)
Cervarix 172 270 (37) (36) 6 – – 61 11 15 92 23 23 13 (90) (90)
Fluarix, FluLaval 251 200 25 26 146 65 66 35 (21) (19) 43 (2) (2) 27 8 8
Hepatitis 629 646 (4) (3) 263 (3) (1) 198 (3) 1 123 (2) (4) 45 (15) (18)
Infanrix, Pediarix 862 775 9 11 271 23 24 398 2 6 132 11 10 61 3 –
Rotarix 375 360 5 4 108 7 8 59 49 51 164 3 3 44 (21) (29)
Synflorix 405 385 2 5 – – – 48 2 7 350 1 5 7 17 17
Other 438 451 (4) (3) 1 (100) – 185 2 6 200 (14) (13) 52 27 16
19,932 19,887 1 – 7,192 1 3 5,166 – 3 4,698 1 – 2,876 3 (9)
ViiV Healthcare
(HIV) 1,386 1,374 – 1
21,318 21,261 1 –
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
220 GSK Annual Report 2013Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area 2012
Total USA Europe EMAP Rest of World
2011
Therapeutic area/ 2012 (restated) Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 7,291 7,298 1 – 3,388 1 3 1,906 (5) (10) 858 13 10 1,139 3 3
Avamys/Veramyst 246 241 5 2 59 (6) (5) 62 2 (5) 63 24 17 62 2 3
Flixonase/Flonase 133 138 (3) (4) 14 100 100 32 (11) (14) 57 14 16 30 (31) (33)
Flixotide/Flovent 779 813 (4) (4) 448 (1) – 122 (15) (19) 55 8 6 154 (6) (6)
Seretide/Advair 5,046 5,061 1 – 2,533 1 2 1,447 (4) (8) 417 12 10 649 3 4
Serevent 145 182 (19) (20) 51 (19) (18) 64 (22) (25) 3 – – 27 (13) (16)
Ventolin 631 602 6 5 277 14 16 126 (6) (11) 171 10 7 57 (8) (8)
Xyzal 129 64 100 >100 – – – – – – 16 – – 113 >100 >100
Zyrtec 81 96 (16) (16) – – – – – – 36 28 24 45 (34) (33)
Other 101 101 6 – 6 (33) (33) 53 4 (5) 40 16 8 2 (100) (100)
Anti-virals 753 842 (11) (11) 57 (42) (41) 74 (23) (27) 360 2 3 262 (12) (12)
Hepsera 126 127 (2) (1) – – – – – – 95 (3) (1) 31 – –
Valtrex 252 339 (25) (26) 35 (51) (51) 33 (27) (31) 37 – (3) 147 (19) (19)
Zovirax 89 109 (16) (18) 3 (73) (73) 21 (19) (22) 35 (3) (5) 30 (9) (12)
Zeffix 243 237 – 3 15 27 36 16 (29) (33) 188 3 7 24 (4) (8)
Other 43 30 37 43 4 100 100 4 100 100 5 >100 >100 30 12 20
Central nervous
system 1,670 1,721 (2) (3) 510 6 8 386 (15) (20) 329 8 6 445 (3) (2)
Imigran/Imitrex 190 210 (8) (10) 72 (13) (12) 67 (4) (9) 7 – – 44 (6) (6)
Lamictal 610 536 14 14 332 18 20 112 (9) (15) 75 7 6 91 58 60
Requip 164 218 (22) (25) 19 (55) (55) 76 (29) (33) 14 25 17 55 8 8
Seroxat/Paxil 374 435 (14) (14) (1) 100 67 57 (9) (14) 84 (5) (5) 234 (19) (18)
Treximet 49 57 (14) (14) 49 (16) (14) – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin 84 85 4 (1) 12 (25) (25) 44 4 (2) 28 26 22 – – –
Other 199 180 13 11 27 >100 >100 30 (39) (41) 121 15 10 21 31 31
Cardiovascular
and urogenital 2,431 2,454 – (1) 1,461 (5) (4) 504 1 (6) 292 18 16 174 23 23
Arixtra 195 276 (27) (29) 68 (54) (54) 91 – (6) 28 33 33 8 (27) (27)
Avodart 790 748 7 6 317 (5) (4) 228 9 2 84 26 22 161 28 29
Coreg 133 155 (15) (14) 132 (15) (14) – – – – – – 1 – –
Fraxiparine 233 234 4 – – – – 145 (4) (10) 87 26 24 1 (50) (50)
Lovaza 607 569 5 7 604 5 7 – – – – – – 3 – 50
Vesicare 175 126 37 39 174 37 38 – – – 1 – – – – –
Other 298 346 (13) (14) 166 (20) (18) 40 (17) (23) 92 1 1 – – –
Metabolic 171 331 (47) (48) (12) – – 29 (49) (52) 65 10 3 89 (24) (24)
Avandia products 6 123 (94) (95) (12) – – – – – 12 (33) (33) 6 (59) (65)
Other 165 208 (18) (21) – – – 29 (52) (55) 53 27 18 83 (18) (17)
Anti-bacterials 1,247 1,390 (7) (10) 20 (63) (63) 403 (17) (21) 735 5 2 89 (12) (11)
Augmentin 608 641 (1) (5) 1 – – 202 (13) (19) 367 8 4 38 (10) (7)
Other 639 749 (12) (15) 19 (65) (65) 201 (20) (24) 368 2 (1) 51 (14) (14)
Oncology and 798 683 19 17 321 18 20 256 11 4 131 48 42 90 15 15
emesis
Arzerra 60 44 36 36 38 23 23 21 83 75 – – – 1 (100) –
Promacta 130 75 76 73 54 66 69 36 65 57 12 >100 >100 28 87 87
Tyverb/Tykerb 239 231 6 3 68 5 6 87 (5) (10) 54 36 29 30 7 7
Votrient 183 100 88 83 91 59 63 66 89 78 22 >100 >100 4 – –
Other 186 233 (19) (20) 70 (18) (18) 46 (34) (39) 43 11 13 27 (21) (21)
Dermatology 850 898 (2) (5) 228 (14) (13) 156 5 – 388 7 1 78 (19) (19)
Bactroban 124 123 3 1 51 (2) – 26 – (7) 39 17 11 8 (11) (11)
Duac 87 109 (19) (20) 38 (38) (37) 24 4 – 13 8 – 12 – –
Other 639 666 – (4) 139 (9) (9) 106 6 1 336 6 1 58 (23) (23)
Rare diseases 495 463 8 7 117 10 11 123 (6) (12) 48 20 17 207 16 16
Flolan 135 179 (25) (25) 33 (14) (11) 23 (42) (47) – – – 79 (21) (20)
Volibris 127 97 35 31 – – – 73 12 6 9 80 80 45 96 96
Other 233 187 26 25 84 22 24 27 4 – 39 11 8 83 50 48
Immuno-
inflammation 70 15 >100 >100 65 >100 >100 4 >100 >100 – – – 1 – –
Benlysta 70 15 >100 >100 65 >100 >100 4 >100 >100 – – – 1 – –
Other
pharmaceuticals 786 908 (9) (13) 19 25 19 180 (23) (32) 408 (2) (7) 179 (7) (6)
Vaccines 3,325 3,497 (2) (5) 826 – 1 980 (4) (10) 1,107 14 9 412 (29) (29)
Boostrix 238 192 25 24 147 35 36 53 17 10 16 78 78 22 (19) (19)
Cervarix 270 506 (46) (47) 6 (25) (25) 53 (2) (9) 75 (19) (20) 136 (61) (61)
Fluarix, FluLaval 200 230 (11) (13) 88 (35) (33) 43 15 8 44 35 29 25 8 4
Hepatitis 646 688 (5) (6) 266 (10) (9) 197 (8) (13) 128 21 15 55 (11) (4)
Infanrix, Pediarix 775 690 17 12 218 32 34 376 – (7) 120 85 76 61 9 9
Nimenrix 1 – – – – – – 1 – – – – – – – –
Rotarix 360 300 21 20 100 (11) (9) 39 2 (5) 159 25 23 62 >100 >100
Synflorix 385 350 17 10 – – – 45 (8) (13) 334 22 14 6 – –
Other 450 541 (13) (17) 1 – – 173 (18) (22) 231 (12) (16) 45 7 2
19,887 20,500 (1) (3) 7,000 (2) – 5,001 (7) (12) 4,721 10 6 3,165 (6) (5)
ViiV Healthcare
(HIV) 1,374 1,569 (10) (12)
21,261 22,069 (2) (4)
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
GSK Annual Report 2013 221Investor information
Financial record
ViiV Healthcare turnover
Total USA Europe EMAP Rest of World
2012
Therapeutic area/ 2013 (restated) Growth 2013 Growth 2013 Growth 2013 Growth 2013 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Combivir 116 179 (36) (35) 35 46 48 39 (41) (39) 35 (56) (56) 7 (36) (42)
Epivir 43 49 (10) (12) 10 25 27 16 (29) (26) 11 (5) (5) 6 (2) (22)
Epzicom/Kivexa 763 665 14 15 269 9 10 328 11 15 78 38 37 88 22 12
Selzentry 143 128 10 12 58 1 2 63 8 13 6 67 60 16 47 40
Trizivir 97 107 (10) (9) 58 (6) (4) 32 (17) (14) 4 (26) (30) 3 1 (18)
Other 224 246 (10) (9) 122 (5) (4) 48 (22) (19) 37 (7) (8) 17 (9) (10)
1,386 1,374 – 1 552 5 6 526 (3) – 171 (12) (14) 137 12 3
Total USA Europe EMAP Rest of World
2011
Therapeutic area/ 2012 (restated) Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth 2012 Growth
major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Combivir 179 322 (43) (44) 24 (81) (81) 64 (27) (31) 79 (2) (5) 12 (42) (37)
Epivir 49 110 (54) (55) 8 (81) (81) 21 (31) (35) 12 (55) (56) 8 (23) (38)
Epzicom/Kivexa 665 617 10 8 243 4 6 285 11 5 57 37 34 80 10 11
Lexiva 127 142 (9) (11) 68 (9) (8) 33 (20) (26) 19 25 21 7 (14) –
Selzentry 128 110 20 16 57 25 26 56 16 9 4 9 2 11 30 10
Trizivir 107 126 (13) (15) 61 (11) (10) 37 (21) (25) 5 4 (1) 4 25 –
Other 119 142 (16) (16) 59 (24) (24) 27 (10) (13) 22 5 5 11 (17) (8)
1,374 1,569 (10) (12) 520 (22) (21) 523 (3) (9) 198 3 – 133 (2) (3)
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the Five
year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
2012 2011 2010 2009
2013 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Turnover by division £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,898 17,936 18,572 18,958 19,947
Vaccines 3,420 3,325 3,497 4,326 3,706
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 21,318 21,261 22,069 23,284 23,653
Consumer Healthcare 5,187 5,170 5,318 5,108 4,715
26,505 26,431 27,387 28,392 28,368
Group turnover by geographic region
USA 8,730 8,476 8,696 9,346 10,316
Europe 7,511 7,326 8,276 9,097 9,702
EMAP 6,746 6,788 6,407 6,078 5,024
Japan 1,890 2,225 2,318 2,155 1,782
Other 1,628 1,616 1,690 1,716 1,544
26,505 26,431 27,387 28,392 28,368
Group turnover by segment
USA 7,192 7,000 7,022 7,629 8,571
Europe 5,166 5,001 5,700 6,479 7,063
EMAP 4,698 4,721 4,441 4,347 3,615
Japan 1,657 1,969 2,082 1,959 1,605
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,386 1,374 1,569 1,566 1,605
Other trading and unallocated pharmaceuticals 1,219 1,196 1,255 1,304 1,194
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 21,318 21,261 22,069 23,284 23,653
Consumer Healthcare 5,187 5,170 5,318 5,108 4,715
26,505 26,431 27,387 28,392 28,368
222 GSK Annual Report 2013Five year record continued
2012 2011 2010 2009
2013 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 7,516 7,291 7,298 7,238 6,977
Anti-virals 667 753 842 1,167 2,474
Central nervous system 1,483 1,670 1,721 1,753 1,870
Cardiovascular and urogenital 2,239 2,431 2,454 2,314 2,077
Metabolic 174 171 331 647 1,151
Anti-bacterials 1,239 1,247 1,390 1,396 1,457
Oncology and emesis 969 798 683 679 620
Dermatology 770 850 898 849 547
Rare diseases 495 495 463 408 364
Immuno-inflammation 161 70 15 – –
Other pharmaceuticals 799 786 908 941 805
Vaccines 3,420 3,325 3,497 4,326 3,706
ViiV Healthcare (HIV) 1,386 1,374 1,569 1,566 1,605
21,318 21,261 22,069 23,284 23,653
Consumer Healthcare turnover
Total wellness 1,935 2,057 2,310 2,217 2,172
Oral care 1,884 1,806 1,722 1,596 1,479
Nutrition 1,096 1,050 1,025 953 851
Skin health 272 257 261 342 213
5,187 5,170 5,318 5,108 4,715
2012 2011 2010 2009
2013 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Financial results – total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 26,505 26,431 27,387 28,392 28,368
Operating profit 7,028 7,300 7,734 3,715 8,408
Profit before taxation 6,647 6,600 7,625 3,089 7,874
Profit after taxation 5,628 4,678 5,405 1,806 5,657
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 112.5 91.6 103.6 31.2 108.9
Diluted earnings per share 110.5 90.2 102.1 30.9 108.0
2012 2011
2013 (restated) (restated)
Financial results – core £m £m £m
Turnover 26,505 26,431 27,387
Operating profit 8,015 8,238 8,730
Profit before taxation 7,366 7,543 8,038
Profit after taxation 5,671 5,705 5,954
pence pence pence
Core earnings per share 112.2 111.4 114.5
Core diluted earnings per share 110.2 109.7 112.9
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 4,831 4,912 5,028 5,085 5,069
Diluted 4,919 4,989 5,099 5,128 5,108
% % % %
% (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Return on capital employed 91.4 84.9 82.3 30.2 82.9
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
GSK Annual Report 2013 223Investor information
Financial record
Five year record continued
2012 2011 2010 2009
2013 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 26,859 27,789 24,921 26,207 25,307
Current assets 15,227 13,692 16,167 16,036 17,570
Total assets 42,086 41,481 41,088 42,243 42,877
Current liabilities (13,677) (13,815) (15,010) (12,794) (12,118)
Non-current liabilities (20,597) (20,929) (17,264) (19,724) (20,041)
Total liabilities (34,274) (34,744) (32,274) (32,518) (32,159)
Net assets 7,812 6,737 8,814 9,725 10,718
Shareholders’ equity 6,997 5,800 8,019 8,867 9,981
Non-controlling interests 815 937 795 858 737
Total equity 7,812 6,737 8,814 9,725 10,718
Number of employees
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
USA 16,530 17,201 16,707 17,555 22,594
Europe 38,367 38,788 38,696 39,910 42,048
EMAP 37,747 36,738 35,080 31,992 28,327
Japan 3,531 3,515 3,573 3,461 3,264
Other 3,276 3,246 3,333 3,543 3,680
99,451 99,488 97,389 96,461 99,913
Manufacturing 31,502 31,369 30,664 30,611 31,162
Selling 45,397 45,601 45,155 43,918 44,621
Administration 10,232 9,607 8,883 8,850 9,405
Research and development 12,320 12,911 12,687 13,082 14,725
99,451 99,488 97,389 96,461 99,913
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are employed and
managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars for Sterling
as reported by the Bank of England (4pm buying rate).
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Average 1.56 1.59 1.60 1.55 1.56
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the 4pm buying rates for each day of the year.
2014 2014 2013 2013 2013 2013
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.67 1.66 1.65 1.64 1.62 1.62
Low 1.63 1.63 1.62 1.59 1.59 1.55
The 4pm buying rate on 21 February 2014 was £1= US$1.67.
224 GSK Annual Report 2013Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key
† In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party
S Month of first submission Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
A Month of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in a
approval letter) small number of patients
BLA Biological Licence Application Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe) treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety
NDA New Drug Application (USA) PO Month of EU Positive Opinion
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Respiratory
2126458 phosphoinositide 3 kinase inhibitor idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis I
2256294 soluble epoxide hydrolase inhibitor COPD I
2269557 phosphoinositide 3 kinase inhibitor asthma & COPD I
2793660 cathepsin C inhibitor bronchiectasis I
2862277 tumour necrosis factor receptor-1 domain antibody acute lung injury I
danirixin (1325756) CXCR2 chemokine receptor antagonist COPD I
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting beta2 agonist COPD I
+ vilanterol† + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist
+ umeclidinium
961081† muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD II
2245035 toll-like receptor 7 agonist asthma II
2339345 sodium channel blocker cough II
2586881† recombinant human angiotensin converting enzyme 2 acute lung injury II
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine asthma II
+ umeclidinium antagonist
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also acute coronary syndrome) II
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody nasal polyposis II
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody severe asthma (also eosinophilic granulomatosis III
with polyangiitis)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid agonist COPD – mortality outcomes III
(vilanterol†
+ fluticasone furoate)
vilanterol† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD III
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist asthma Submitted S: Oct13
Incruse Ellipta* muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD (also hyperhidrosis) Submitted PO: Feb14 S: Apr13
(umeclidinium)
Anoro Ellipta muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist + long-acting COPD Approved PO: Feb14 A: Dec13
(umeclidinium beta2 agonist
+ vilanterol†)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid agonist asthma Approved A: Nov13
(vilanterol†
+ fluticasone furoate)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta long-acting beta2 agonist + glucocorticoid agonist COPD Approved A: Nov13 A:May13
(vilanterol†
+ fluticasone furoate)
Paediatric Vaccines
RSV recombinant respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis I
(maternal immunisation)
RSV recombinant viral vector respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis I
S. pneumoniae next recombinant – conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis II
generation†
MMR live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis III (US) A: Nov 97
Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) III N/A
(Malaria RTS,S)†
Nimenrix conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y Approved A: Apr12
(MenACWY-TT) disease prophylaxis (II, US)
Other Vaccines
HIV† recombinant HIV disease prophylaxis I
NTHi† recombinant non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae prophylaxis I
Hepatitis C recombinant viral vector hepatitis C virus prophylaxis II
HIV† recombinant HIV disease immunotherapy II
Tuberculosis† recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
Zoster† recombinant Herpes Zoster prophylaxis III
Flu (pre-) pandemic H5N1 inactivated split – monovalent (Quebec) pre-pandemic & pandemic influenza prophylaxis Approved N/A A: Nov13
Flu vaccine inactivated split – quadrivalent seasonal influenza prophylaxis Approved A: Feb13 A: Dec12
* The use of the brand name is not approved by any regulatory authorities
GSK Annual Report 2013 225Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Antigen-Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic
PRAME recombinant treatment of resectable non-small cell lung cancer II
immunotherapeutic†
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of bladder cancer II
immunotherapeutic†
WT1 immunotherapeutic recombinant treatment of breast cancer II
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of melanoma III
immunotherapeutic†
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer III
immunotherapeutic†
HIV (ViiV Healthcare)
1265744 HIV integrase inhibitor (long-acting HIV infections II
parenteral formulation)
dolutegravir + abacavir HIV integrase inhibitor + reverse HIV infections - fixed dose combination Submitted S:Oct13 S:Oct13
sulphate + lamivudine transcriptase inhibitors (fixed dose
combination)
Tivicay (dolutegravir) HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections Approved A: Jan14 A: Aug13
Oncology
525762 bromodomain inhibitor NUT gene midline carcinoma I
2141795 + trametinib† AKT protein kinase inhibitor cancer I
+ MEK1/2 inhibitor
2256098 focal adhesion kinase inhibitor cancer I
2636771 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor cancer I
2849330 ErbB3 monoclonal antibody cancer I
3052230† fibroblast growth factor ligand trap cancer I
afuresertib (2110183) AKT protein kinase inhibitor multiple myeloma I
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor renal cell cancer I
+ MK-3475† + PD-1 monoclonal antibody
afuresertib (2110183) AKT protein kinase inhibitor ovarian cancer II
foretinib† mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor non-small cell lung cancer II
(C-met) kinase inhibitor
Mekinist (trametinib)† MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein kinase colorectal cancer II
+ Tafinlar (dabrafenib) inhibitor + human anti-EGFR
+ panitumumab† monoclonal antibody
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist acute myeloid leukaemia II
(eltrombopag)†
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist aplastic anaemia II
(eltrombopag)†
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist myelodysplastic syndromes II
(eltrombopag)†
Tafinlar (dabrafenib) BRAF protein kinase inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer II
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, use in relapsed patients III
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody diffuse large B cell lymphoma (relapsed patients) III
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody follicular lymphoma (refractory & relapsed patients) III
Mekinist (trametinib)† MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein kinase metastatic melanoma, adjuvant therapy III
+ Tafinlar (dabrafenib) inhibitor
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 breast cancer, neo-adjuvant & adjuvant therapy III
(Her2) and epidermal growth factor
receptor (EGFR) dual kinase inhibitor
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor renal cell cancer, adjuvant therapy III
Arzerra (ofatumumab)† CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy Submitted S: Oct13 S: Oct13
Votrient (pazopanib) multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy Submitted S: Aug13
Mekinist (trametinib)† MEK1/2 inhibitor metastatic melanoma Approved S: Feb13 A: May13
Mekinist (trametinib)† MEK1/2 inhibitor + BRAF protein kinase metastatic melanoma Approved S: Feb13 A:Jan14
+ Tafinlar (dabrafenib) inhibitor
Revolade/Promacta thrombopoietin receptor agonist hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia Approved A: Sep13 A: Nov12
(eltrombopag)†
Tafinlar (dabrafenib) BRAF protein kinase inhibitor metastatic melanoma Approved A:Aug13 A:May13
Tyverb/Tykerb (lapatinib) Her2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor metastatic breast cancer, in combination with trastuzumabApproved A: Jul13
226 GSK Annual Report 2013Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Cardiovascular & Metabolic
1278863 prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor (topical) wound healing I
2881078 selective androgen receptor modulator heart failure I
1278863 prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor anaemia associated with chronic renal disease II
& peri-operative risk reduction
2330672 ileal bile acid transport inhibitor type 2 diabetes II
camicinal motilin receptor agonist delayed gastric emptying II
losmapimod p38 kinase inhibitor acute coronary syndrome (also COPD) II
retosiban oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour II
darapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis (also diabetic macular oedema) III
Eperzan (albiglutide) GLP 1 agonist type 2 diabetes Submitted PO: Jan14 S: Jan13
Immuno-inflammation
2586184† Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor ulcerative colitis I
2618960 IL7 receptor monoclonal antibody autoimmune disease I
3117391† macrophage targeted histone deacetylase rheumatoid arthritis I
inhibitor
2586184† Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor systemic lupus erythematosus (also psoriasis) II
3196165 (MOR103)† granulocyte macrophage colony- rheumatoid arthritis II
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody
belimumab B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal transplant rejection (also myaesthenia gravis) II
antibody (i.v.)
Benlysta (belimumab) B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus III
antibody (s.c.)
Benlysta (belimumab) B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal vasculitis III
antibody (i.v.)
sirukumab† IL6 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) rheumatoid arthritis III
Rare Diseases
2398852† SAP monoclonal antibody amyloidosis I
2696274† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy metachromatic leukodystrophy II
2696275† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome II
ozanezumab neurite outgrowth inhibitor (NOGO-A) amyotrophic lateral sclerosis II
monoclonal antibody
2696273† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy adenosine deaminase severe combined immune III
deficiency (ADA-SCID)
mepolizumab IL5 monoclonal antibody (s.c.) eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis III
(also severe asthma)
Volibris (ambrisentan)† endothelin A antagonist chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension III
Infectious Diseases
2838232 antiviral maturation inhibitor HIV infections I
2878175 NS5B polymerase inhibitor hepatitis C I
1322322 polypeptide deformylase inhibitor bacterial infections II
2140944 type 2 topoisomerase inhibitor bacterial infections II
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria II
Relenza i.v. (zanamivir)† neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) influenza III
Neurosciences
2647544 Lp-PLA2 inhibitor Alzheimer's disease I
239512 H3 receptor antagonist multiple sclerosis II
249320 myelin-associated glycoprotein monoclonal stroke II
antibody
belimumab B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal myaesthenia gravis (also transplant rejection) II
antibody (i.v.)
ofatumumab† CD20 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) multiple sclerosis (also pemphigus vulgaris) II
rilapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor Alzheimer's disease II
GSK Annual Report 2013 227Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Ophthalmology
933776 beta amyloid monoclonal antibody geographic retinal atrophy II
darapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor diabetic macular oedema (also atherosclerosis) II
Dermatology
1940029 stearoyl CoA desaturase 1 inhibitor (topical) acne vulgaris I
umeclidinium muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist (topical) hyperhidrosis (also COPD) I
2586184† Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) inhibitor psoriasis (also lupus) II
2894512† non-steroidal anti-inflammatory atopic dermatitis & psoriasis II
ofatumumab† CD20 human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) pemphigus vulgaris (also multiple sclerosis) II
Toctino (alitretinoin)† retinoic acid receptor modulator chronic hand eczema III N/A
Duac low dose clindamycin/benzoyl peroxide gel acne vulgaris Approved A: Mar13 N/A
Brand names appearing in italics are trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies.
Option-based alliances with third parties that include assets in phase I and phase II development:
Company Disease Area Phase
Cancer Research UK cancer I
Dynavax Technologies cutaneous & systemic lupus erythematosus II
ISIS Pharmaceuticals transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis II/III
hepatitis B I
OncoMed Pharmaceuticals oncology I/II*
Shionogi bacterial infection I
* Two assets
228 GSK Annual Report 2013Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
Respiratory 2025 2025
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Spiriva, Onbrez (NCE) (NCE)
vilanterol terfenatate 2016-2029 2016-2029
(device) (device)
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasonex 20211 2023
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair 2016 expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2013-2025 2017
(HFA-device/ (HFA-device/
formulation) formulation)
Relvar/Breo fluticasone furoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2022 2022
Ellipta vilanterol terfenatate (US – COPD only) Flutiform, Dulera (NCE) (NCE)
2016-2029 2016-2029
(device) (device)
Seretide/Advair* salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2016 expired
fluticasone propionate Flutiform, Dulera (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2013-2025 2017
(HFA-device/ (HFA-device/
formulation) formulation)
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma/COPD Foradil, Spiriva, 2016 expired
Onbrez (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2019
(HFA-device/
formulation)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2015-2025 2012-2017
(HFA-device/ (HFA-device/
formulation) formulation)
Anti-virals
Relenza zanamivir influenza Tamiflu expired 2014
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, Famvir expired expired
shingles
Zeffix/Epivir-HBV lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera 2014 expired
(use) (use)
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Requip XL ropinirole Parkinson’s disease Mirapex expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
anxiety disorders Lexapro
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, 20151 2017
finasteride
Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 2016† NA
hypertension, left ventricular (formulation)
dysfunction post MI
Lovaza omega-3 acid ethyl esters very high triglycerides Tricor expired NA
* See ’Risk factors’ on page 233 for details of uncertainty on the timing of follow-on competition.
† Generic competition possible in 2014.
1 See Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2013 229Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
Oncology
Arzerra ofatumumab refractory chronic MabThera/Rituxan, 2030 2023
lymphocytic leukaemia Imbruvica
Mekinist trametinib metastatic melanoma Yervoy, Zelboraf 2025 NA
Promacta/ eltrombopag idiopathic thrombocytopenic Nplate, 2022 2025
Revolade purpura, Hepatitis C MabThera/Rituxan
associated thrombocytopenia
Tafinlar dabrafenib mesylate metastatic melanoma Yervoy, Zelboraf 2030 not yet granted
Tykerb/Tyverb lapatanib advanced and metastatic Herceptin, 2020 2023
breast cancer in HER2 Kadcyla
positive patients
Votrient pazopanib soft tissue sarcoma Yondelis, Sutent, 2023 2025
metastatic renal cell Nexavar, Afinitor
carcinoma
Rare diseases
Volibris ambrisentan pulmonary hypertension Tracleer, Revatio NA 2020
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus 2023 2021
Vaccines
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular booster vaccination Adacel 2017 2017
pertussis
Infanrix/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Pentacel, Pediacel, 2017 2014
polio, hepatitis B, polio, hepatitis B Pentaxim, Pentavac,
Haemophilus influenzae Haemophilus influenzae Hexaxim
type B type B
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2020 2020
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
virus subtypes A and Fluzone, Influvac,
subtype B antigens Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Intenza, Flumist QIV, 2022 2022
virus subtypes A and Vaxigrip QIV,
subtype B antigens Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, none none
virus subtypes A and Fluzone, Influvac,
subtype B antigens Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Pandemrix derived split inactivated A(H1N1)v2009 influenza Focetria, Celvapan, 2014 2014
influenza virus antigen, prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Prepandrix derived split inactivated pandemic H5N1 Aflunov, Vepacel 2014 2014
influenza virus antigen, influenza prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal invasive pneumococcal Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2021
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia
acute otitis media
230 GSK Annual Report 2013Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands USA EU
HIV
Combivir lamivudine and zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired expired
Stribild (combination) (combination)
Complera/Eviplera
Epivir lamivudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired expired
Stribild
Complera/Eviplera
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161 2019
Stribild (combination) (combination)
Complera/Eviplera
Lexiva fosamprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, 20171 2019
Reyataz
Selzentry maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2021 2022
Prezista
Tivicay dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 2027 2026
Reyataz, Kaletra
Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 20161,2 2016
and abacavir Stribild (combination) (combination)
Complera/Eviplera
2 Generic competition commenced in 2014
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Total wellness
Panadol tablets, caplets, infant drops paracetamol-based treatment global except USA Reckitt-Benckiser’s Nurofen
of headache and joint pain,
fever, cold symptoms
NicoDerm, gum, patch, mini lozenge, treatment of nicotine global Novartis’ Nicotinell
NiQuitin CQ, original lozenge withdrawal as an aid to Johnson & Johnson’s
and Nicabate. quitting smoking Nicorette in Europe
Also Nicorette retailers’ own brands
(US only)
ENO effervescent and rapid relief antacid global Hypermarcas’ Estomazil
Tums chewable tablets Pfizer’s Gelusil
Sanofi’s Rolaids
Johnson & Johnson’s Mylanta
Oral care
Sensodyne toothpastes, toothbrushes prevention of dental global Colgate-Palmolive’s
mouthwashes sensitivity Colgate Pro Relief
Polident denture adhesive, denture improve comfort of global Procter & Gamble’s Fixodent
Poligrip cleanser fitted dentures and to Reckitt-Benckiser’s Kukident
Corega clean dentures and Steradent
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes prevention of caries, gum global Colgate-Palmolive’s Colgate
mouthwashes disease and bad breath Procter & Gamble’s Crest
and Oral-B
Parodontax toothpastes, mouthwashes help stop bleeding gums global Colgate-Palmolives’s
gum health Colgate Pro-Gum
Nutrition
Horlicks malted, milk-based drinks nutrition UK, Ireland, India Mondelez’s Bournvita
and foods Nestle’s Milo
Maxinutrition sports nutrition, protein nutrition UK Myprotein
powder, bars Optimum Nutrition
Skin health
Physiogel moisturising, creams, face and body care for dry, Germany, France, Italy, L’Oreal’s La Roche Posay
lotions and cleansers sensitive and irritated skin Poland, Spain Beiersdorf’s Eucerin
Pierre Fabre’s Avene
Oilatum emollient bath and creams, soothing treatment for eczema UK, Poland, Reckitt-Benckiser’s E45
shampoo and dry skin conditions other markets Sanofi’s Emolium
GSK Annual Report 2013 231Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Principal risks and uncertainties
Risk factors
The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental
relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of a
that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. particular risk may alter. Changes to certain regulatory regimes, such
The factors below are those that we believe could cause our actual as the US healthcare system, may be substantial. Any change in,
results to differ materially from expected and historical results. and any failure to comply with, applicable law and regulation could
materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly
competitive and highly regulated. Our competitors may make Similarly, our business exposes us to litigation and government
significant product innovations and technical advances and may investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation,
intensify price competition. In light of this competitive environment, antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation. Litigation and
continued development of commercially viable new products and the government investigations, including related provisions we may make
development of additional uses for existing products are critical to for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related costs such as
our ability to maintain or increase overall sales. insurance premiums, could materially and adversely affect our
financial results. More detail on the status and various uncertainties
Developing new pharmaceutical and vaccine products is a costly,
involved in the significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation
lengthy and uncertain process, however, and a product candidate
is set out in Note 44, ‘Legal proceedings,’ on page 204.
may fail at any stage, including after significant Group economic and
human resources have been invested. Our competitors’ products or UK regulations require a discussion of mitigating activities a company
pricing strategies or any failure on our part to develop commercially takes to address principal risks and uncertainties. A summary of the
successful products or to develop additional uses for existing mitigation activities accompanies each principal risk to represent the
products could materially and adversely affect our financial results. main actions we have taken to manage each of our principal risks.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties are not listed in order
We must also adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and
of significance.
regulations. These requirements apply to research and development,
manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of
Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Products, and affect
not only the cost of product development but also the time required to
reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so.
Patient safety Strategic priority: Deliver more products of value. Grow a diversified global company.
Risk definition
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse events The Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is responsible for medical governance
from all potential sources. This could compromise our ability to conduct for the Group under a global policy. Under that policy, safeguarding human
robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to ensure that subjects in our clinical trials and patients who take our products is of
appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk/benefit profile of paramount importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating
our products, including the completeness and accuracy of product labels and addressing matters of human safety. Individual Medical Officers and the
and the pursuit of additional studies/analyses, as appropriate. Group’s substantial Global Safety and Pharmacovigilance keep track of any
adverse issues reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
Risk impact Once a Group product is approved for marketing, the Group has an extensive
The impacts of the risk include potential harm to patients, reputational post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system. Information on
damage, product liability claims or other litigation, governmental possible side effects of medicines is received from several sources including
investigation, regulatory action such as fines, penalties or loss of unsolicited reports from health professionals and patients, regulatory
product authorisation. authorities, medical and scientific literature and the media. It is our policy that
employees are required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety
Context or quality of its medicines. Each of our country managers is responsible for
monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the collection of
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development of
safety information and reporting the information to the relevant central safety
investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Products
department, in accordance with Group policy and legal requirements.
to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for use by humans.
Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the safety of our products Information that changes the benefit/risk profile of one of the Group’s
through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical trials, unanticipated side effects medicines will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate and
may become evident only when products are widely introduced into the minimise the risk. Proposed actions are discussed with regulatory authorities
marketplace. Questions may be raised not only by our ongoing safety and can include modifying the prescribing information, communications
surveillance and post-marketing studies but also by governmental agencies to physicians and other healthcare providers, restrictions on product
and third-parties who may analyse publicly available clinical trial results. prescribing/availability to help assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out
further clinical trials. In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits,
trials or to withdraw the medicine from the market. The Group’s Global
including class actions, that involve significant claims for damages related
Safety Board (GSB), comprising senior physicians and representatives of
to our products. Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently unpredictable.
supporting functions, is an integral component of the system. The GSB
Class actions that seek to sweep together all persons who were prescribed
(including subsidiary boards dedicated to Consumer Healthcare Products
our products increase the potential liability. Claims for pain and suffering
and Vaccines) reviews the safety of investigational and marketed products
and punitive damages are frequently asserted in product liability actions
across the Group and has the authority to stop a clinical trial if deemed
and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure and thus,
possibly harmful to human volunteers.
could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group as
Mitigating activities described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster the early
We have constructed a system of medical governance to help ensure evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they arise and of potential
the safety and efficacy of the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer claims even before they arise. The goal of the programmes is to create a
Healthcare Products the Group produces. culture of early identification and evaluation of risks and claims (actual or
potential), in order to minimise liability and litigation.
232 GSK Annual Report 2013Intellectual property Strategic priority: Deliver more products of value. Grow a diversified global company.
Risk definition We depend on certain key products for a significant portion of our sales.
Failure to appropriately secure and protect intellectual property rights. The timing and impact of entry in the USA and major markets in Europe
for a ‘follow-on’ product to Seretide/Advair is uncertain. The US patent
Risk impact for compositions containing the combination of active substances
in Seretide/Advair expired during 2010 although the US patent on a
Any loss of patent protection, including reducing the scope of patent rights
component of the Advair Diskus device continues until August 2016.
or compulsory licensing (in which a government forces a manufacturer to
We are not able to predict when a generic competitor to Seretide/Advair
license its patents for specific products to a competitor), could materially
may enter the US market.
and adversely affect our financial results in those markets. Absence of
adequate patent or data exclusivity protection could limit the opportunity to Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to market
rely on such markets for future sales growth for our products, which could generic versions of many of our most important products prior to the
also materially and adversely affect our financial results. expiration of our patents. Their efforts may involve challenges to the validity
or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their generic product does
Context not infringe our patents. As a result, we are and may continue to be involved
in legal proceedings involving patent challenges, which may materially and
As an innovative Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, in the USA, it has become
Products company, we seek to obtain appropriate intellectual property
increasingly common for patent infringement actions to prompt claims that
protection for our products. Our ability to obtain and enforce patents
anti-trust laws have been violated during the prosecution of the patent or
and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is critical to our
during litigation involving the defence of that patent. Such claims by direct
business strategy and success. Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products are
and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class actions.
usually only protected from being copied by generic manufacturers during
The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution claims.
the period of exclusivity provided by an issued patent or related intellectual
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by government entities or
property rights such as Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug
private parties following settlement of patent litigation, alleging that
status. Following expiration of certain intellectual property rights, a generic
such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust laws.
manufacturer may lawfully produce a generic version of the product but
A successful anti-trust claim by a private party or government entity
may face technological or regulatory barriers to marketing.
could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We operate in markets where intellectual property laws and patent offices
The expiration dates for patents for our major products which may affect the
are still developing and where governments may be unwilling to grant or
dates on which generic versions of our products may be introduced are set
enforce intellectual property rights in a fashion similar to more developed
out on pages 229-231. Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are
regions such as the EU, Japan and the USA. Some developing countries
set out in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
have reduced, or threatened to reduce, effective patent protection for
Pharmaceutical products generally, or in particular therapeutic areas, to
facilitate early competition within their markets from generic manufacturers. Mitigating activities
Our Global Patents group focuses on securing and protecting our patent
We face competition from manufacturers of proprietary and generic
rights. This global group maintains internal processes designed to help
pharmaceutical products in all of our major markets. Introduction of generic
ensure successful procurement, enforcement and defence of our patents
products, particularly in the USA where we have our highest turnover
with the goal of maintaining exclusive rights in markets for our products.
and margins, typically leads to a dramatic loss of sales and reduces our
revenues and margins for our proprietary products. In 2013, we had 10 The Global Patents group monitors new developments in international
Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products with over £500 million in annual patent law to help ensure appropriate protection of our assets. Sometimes
global sales. For certain of these products, there is generic competition acting through trade associations, we work with local governments to seek
in the USA and some markets in Europe. We may also experience an to secure effective and balanced intellectual property protection designed
impact on sales of one of our products due to the expiry or loss of patent to meet the needs of patients and payers while supporting long-term
protection for a product marketed by a competitor in a similar product class investment in innovation.
or for treatment of a similar disease condition.
GSK Annual Report 2013 233Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Product quality Strategic priority: Deliver more products of value. Grow a diversified global company.
Risk definition We have adopted a single Quality Management System (QMS) that
Failure to ensure product quality throughout manufacturing and defines our quality standards and systems for our businesses associated
distribution processes resulting in non-compliance with good with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare Products and
manufacturing practice (GMP) and regulations. R&D investigational materials. The QMS has a broad scope, covering the
end-to-end supply chain from starting materials to distributed product,
Risk impact and is applicable throughout the complete lifecycle of products from
R&D to mature commercial supply.
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching implications
in terms of the health of patients and customers, product recalls, The QMS is periodically updated based on experience, evolving
potential damage to our reputation, as well as regulatory, legal, and regulatory agency expectations and requirements and improved scientific
financial consequences, which could materially and adversely affect our understanding to help ensure that operations comply with GMP
financial results. requirements globally, and support the delivery of consistent and reliable
products. A large network of quality and compliance professionals is
Context aligned with each business unit to provide oversight and assist the
delivery of quality performance and operational compliance. Management
Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality of
oversight of those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of quality
our products at the point of use. A failure to ensure product quality is an
council meetings. Staff are trained to help ensure that standards, as well
enterprise risk which is applicable across all of our business activities.
as expected behaviours based on our values, are followed.
Product quality may be influenced by many factors including product
and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing components, We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and managing
compliance with GMP, accuracy of labelling, reliability and security of our third-party suppliers that provide materials used in finished products.
the supply chain, and the embodiment of an overarching quality culture. Contract manufacturers making our products are expected to comply
The internal and external environment continues to evolve as new with standards identified by the Group and are audited to help provide
products, new markets and new legislation are introduced, particularly assurance that expected standards are met.
around security of supply, good distribution practice and product
The Chief Product Quality Officer oversees the activities of the GSK
standards.
Quality Council which serves as a forum to escalate emerging risks,
share experiences of handling quality issues from all of our businesses
Mitigating activities
and help ensure that lessons learned are assessed and deployed globally.
In medicines development, scientists adopt the principles of quality by The preparation for and implementation of new legislation is regularly
design for new products and devise control strategies to be deployed reviewed by the GSK Quality Council and advocacy and communication
throughout the product lifecycle to help ensure consistency and reliability programmes are used to maintain awareness of the external environment
in their performance and supply. and convey consistent messages across the Group. There is emphasis
on quality performance metrics and a culture of ‘right first time’.
234 GSK Annual Report 2013Supply chain continuity Strategic priority: Simplify the operating model. Deliver more products of value.
Risk definition The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers or
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product. service providers to fulfil their contractual obligations in a timely manner
or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption
Risk impact of logistics and manufacturing sites may result in delays or service
interruptions.
Any interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes could
impact patient access to our products, expose us to litigation or regulatory
Mitigating activities
action and materially and adversely affect our financial results. In particular,
the incurring of fines or disgorgement as a result of noncompliance with Our supply chain model is designed to help ensure the supply, quality
manufacturing practice regulations could also materially and adversely and security of our products globally. We closely monitor the delivery
affect the Group’s financial results and result in reputational damage. of our products to help ensure that our customers have the medicines,
vaccines and products they need. Safety stocks and backup supply
Context arrangements for high revenue and medically-critical products are
in place, where practical, to help mitigate this risk. In addition, the
Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by
standing of manufacturing external suppliers is routinely monitored
various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to operate.
in order to identify and manage supply base risks.
Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or by suppliers of
key services and materials could lead to litigation or regulatory action Where practical, dependencies on single sources of critical items are
such as product recalls and seizures, interruption of supply, delays in removed. During 2013, our reliance on single source components was
the approval of new products, and revocation of our licence to operate reduced for several key products through qualification of alternative
pending resolution of manufacturing or logistics issues. materials that will help improve supply chain robustness.
Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are necessary During 2013, our supply chain operating model was modified to
for the commercial production of our products, including active strengthen the link between commercial forecasting and manufacturing.
pharmaceutical ingredients (API), antigens, intermediates, commodities This action will over time decrease the risk associated with demand
and components necessary for the manufacture and packaging of many fluctuations impacting ability to supply or write-offs associated with
of our Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare Products. product exceeding expiry dating. Under the new model, each node of
Some of the third-party services procured, such as services provided by the supply chain is being optimised to help ensure adequate safety
clinical research organisations to support development of key products, stock while balancing working capital associated with the end-to-end
are important to the continuous operation of our businesses. Although supply chain.
we undertake business continuity planning, single sourcing of certain
components, bulk API, finished products, and services creates a risk of
failure of supply in the event of regulatory non-compliance or physical
disruption at the manufacturing sites and to logistics.
Financial reporting and disclosure Strategic priority: Simplify the operating model.
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to report accurate financial information in compliance with The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify material
accounting standards and applicable legislation. errors in financial reporting and disclosure. The design and operating
effectiveness of key financial reporting controls is periodically tested.
Risk impact This provides us with the assurance that controls over key financial
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and disclosure reporting and disclosure processes have operated effectively.
requirements, or changes to the recognition of income and expenses, We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial reporting
could expose us to litigation and regulatory action and could materially requirements by working with our external auditor and other advisors
and adversely affect our financial results. to help ensure adherence to relevant reporting and disclosure
requirements.
Context
There is shared accountability for financial results across our
New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations issued businesses. Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional
from time to time by the International Accounting Standards Board management and then reviewed with the Financial Controller and the
could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense that Chief Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our Financial Controller
may materially and adversely affect our financial results. and our CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and to
The Group is also required by the laws of various jurisdictions to evaluate performance to plan. Significant judgments are reviewed and
publicly disclose its financial results, and regulators routinely review confirmed by senior management.
the financial statements of listed companies for compliance with
accounting and regulatory requirements. The Group believes that it
complies with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning our
financial statements and disclosures. However, should we be subject
to an investigation into potential non-compliance with accounting and
disclosure requirements there is potential for restatements of previously
reported results and we could be subject to significant penalties.
GSK Annual Report 2013 235Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Tax and treasury Strategic priority: Simplify the operating model.
Risk definition Liquidity risk is managed by diversifying our liquidity sources using a
Failure to comply with tax law or significant losses due to treasury range of facilities and by maintaining broad access to funding markets
activities. in order to meet anticipated future funding requirements. We also hold
significant amounts of cash and investments which are invested in line
Risk impact with strict investment guidelines.
Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters Interest rate risk is managed by limiting the amount of floating rate
such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D interest payments to a prescribed percentage of operating profit, and
tax credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates is monitored regularly
allowed on the interest on intra-group debt, could impact our effective by the TMG.
tax rate. Significant losses may arise from Treasury activities through
Foreign currency transaction risk arising on internal and external trade
inconsistent application of Treasury policies, dealing or settlement
flows is not generally hedged. Our internal trading transactions are
errors, or counterparty defaults. Any such changes in tax laws or their
matched centrally, and we manage inter-company payment terms
application, failure to comply with tax law or significant losses due to
to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency cash flows can
treasury activities could materially and adversely affect our financial
be hedged selectively under the management of Treasury and the
results.
TMG. Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally. In order to reduce
Context
foreign currency translation exposure, we seek to denominate
The Group’s Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets and cash flows.
foreign exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis. The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for the major
currencies monthly.
The Group’s effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in jurisdictions
that are both higher and lower than the UK. In addition, many Counterparty risk is managed by setting global counterparty limits
jurisdictions currently offer regimes that encourage innovation and for each of our banking and investment counterparties based on long-
investment in science by providing tax incentives, such as R&D term credit ratings from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Treasury’s
tax credits and lower tax rates on income derived from patents. usage of these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance
Furthermore, as an international business, we face risks associated Officer (CCO) who operates independently of Corporate Treasury.
with intra-group transfer pricing. The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and,
when changes in ratings occur, notifies Treasury so that changes can
The tax charge included in our financial statements is our best estimate
be made to investment levels or to authority limits as appropriate.
of tax liability pending audits by tax authorities. We submit tax returns
according to statutory time limits and engage tax authorities to help We monitor government debate on tax policy in our key jurisdictions
ensure our tax affairs are current. In exceptional cases where matters to deal proactively with any potential future changes in tax law. Tax
cannot be settled by agreement with tax authorities, we may have to risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures to help ensure
resolve disputes through formal appeals or other proceedings. As an consistency and compliance with tax legislation. We engage advisors
international business, we are also subject to a range of other duties and legal counsel to review tax legislation and applicability to our
and taxes carrying similar types of risk. business.
There is an increased focus on the tax position of multinational We attempt to mitigate the risk of more aggressive tax authority audits
businesses, as a consequence of the challenging economic by being as up to date as possible with our tax affairs and working
environment and the priority placed by the G20 on addressing proactively with tax authorities where possible. We have also moved to
allegations of tax avoidance. We have seen some increase in audits as a more centralised and simplified intellectual property ownership and
governments seek to raise revenues, both from corporate taxes and trading model. The model centralises our Pharmaceutical intellectual
above the line taxes such as customs duties. property into the UK, reducing the complexity of our inter-company
arrangements enabling us to drive more bilateral Advance Pricing
Mitigating activities Agreements (APAs) between the UK and other jurisdictions where
Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and does not enter we operate. APAs give greater certainty to the application of transfer
into financial derivative transactions for speculative purposes. All pricing and our direct tax affairs and hence reduce risks. Internal
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the structures have been enhanced through a centralised team of
risks arising from underlying business activities. Treasury activities dedicated specialists responsible for managing transactional tax
are governed by policies approved by the Board of Directors and reporting and compliance.
compliance is regularly reviewed by the Treasury Management
Group (TMG), which is chaired by the CFO.
236 GSK Annual Report 2013Anti-bribery and corruption Strategic priority: Grow a diversified global company.
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to foster a culture within the Group in which bribery and Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment to zero
corruption are unacceptable; adopt measures and embed procedures tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk. The Group has an
to prevent bribery and corruption by employees, complementary enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to respond to the threat
workers and through third party interactions; investigate allegations and risk of bribery and corruption. It builds on the Group’s values and
of bribery and corruption and remediate issues identified; and comply existing standards to form a comprehensive and practical approach to
with applicable anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC) legislation. compliance in this complex risk area.
Our ABAC programme is supported by: top-level commitment; a
Risk impact
global policy and proportionate procedures (including a ‘Speak
Failure to comply with applicable local and international ABAC Up’ procedure); ongoing training and communications (including a
legislation could expose the Group and associated persons to confidential reporting line); ongoing risk assessment; monitoring and
governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil and criminal investigations; and third party due diligence including contracting
liability, as well as damage the Group’s reputation, shareholder value, requirements and monitoring and oversight. In addition, the programme
and our licence to operate, all of which could materially and adversely mandates enhanced controls over interactions with government officials
affect our financial results. and when undertaking business development transactions. Programme
governance is provided by the Group’s ABAC Oversight Committee
Context which includes representation from key functional areas.
Like other large organisations, the Group faces the risk of fraud by Additionally, we have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for driving
members of staff. The nature, scale and geography of our international the implementation and evolution of the programme in response to
business activities increase the possibility of this bribery and corruption developments in the internal and external environment. This capability
risk. Additionally, the healthcare industry is highly regulated, and some includes an ABAC investigations team empowered to review bribery and
of our overseas markets, such as our operations in emerging markets, corruption allegations and make recommendations for remedial action
are more susceptible to bribery and corruption risks. and improvement. They are supported by a network of functional experts
from our Legal, Compliance and Audit & Assurance groups.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme and use external
expertise to review and help improve elements of the programme.
GSK Annual Report 2013 237Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Commercial practices and scientific engagement Strategic priority: Deliver more products of value. Grow a diversified global company.
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to engage in commercial and/or scientific activities that are We are committed to legitimate Scientific Engagement and the ethical
consistent with the letter and spirit of legal, industry, or the Group’s and responsible commercialisation of medicines to support our mission
requirements relating to marketing and communications about our to improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do more,
medicines and associated therapeutic areas; appropriate interactions feel better, and live longer. To accomplish this mission, we engage
with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients; and legitimate and the healthcare community in various ways to advance our scientific
transparent transfer of value. knowledge as well as to provide important information about our
medicines.
Risk impact
We have an obligation to learn from Scientific Engagement interactions
Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may result and provide accurate and complete information through appropriate
in governmental investigation, regulatory action and legal proceedings channels; in a careful, correct, non-promotional manner. Researchers,
brought against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs. HCPs, healthcare organisations (HCOs) and other external experts that
Failure to provide accurate and complete information related to our we engage should be fairly compensated for services and expertise
products may result in incomplete awareness of the benefit:risk profile provided. However, payments must not be excessive and must never
of our medicines and possibly suboptimal treatment of patients. Any of be or be perceived to be an inducement or reward for prescribing our
these consequences could materially and adversely affect our financial products.
results. Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values
Promotion of approved medicines helps ensure that HCPs globally
could also result in reputational damage and dilute trust established
have access to information they need, that patients have access to the
with key stakeholders.
medicines they need and that medicines are prescribed and used in a
manner that provides the maximum healthcare benefit to patients. We
Context
are committed to communicating information related to our approved
The Group disseminates information about its products through both products in a responsible, legal, and ethical manner.
promotion and non-promotional Scientific Engagement. The latter is
the interaction and exchange of information between the Group and We have taken action at all levels of the Group to enhance and improve
partners and external communities in order to advance scientific and standards and procedures for Scientific Engagement and promotional
medical understanding including the appropriate development and interactions, based on our values of transparency, respect, integrity and
use of our products; the management of disease; and patient care. patient focus. We have policies and standards governing promotional
It is distinct from promotional activities which may take place only after activities and Scientific Engagement undertaken by the Group or on its
authorisation of a new product or indication, and must be conducted behalf. All of these activities we conduct worldwide must conform to
strictly in accordance with promotional laws, codes and the Group’s high ethical, medical, and scientific standards. Where local standards
Policy. differ from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
There are legal, regulatory, financial and reputational risks for the Group All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and approved
if these activities are, or are perceived to be, exceeding their proper according to the Group’s standards, and conducted in accordance
boundaries or inappropriately influencing HCPs. In 2012, we paid with local laws and regulations, to help ensure that these materials
$3 billion to resolve government investigations in the USA focused and activities fairly represent the products or services of the Group.
in large part on promotional practices. When necessary, we have disciplined (up to and including termination)
employees who have engaged in misconduct and have broadened our
ability to claw back remuneration from senior management in the event
of misconduct.
In recent years, we have taken several steps that we feel are industry
leading in various areas of commercial practices and Scientific
Engagement. Examples where the Group stance has been recognised
as industry-leading include removing prescription-volume incentives
from compensation of sales representatives in the US and global
standards for Scientific Engagement.
238 GSK Annual Report 2013Research practices Strategic priorities: Deliver more products of value. Grow a diversified global company.
Risk definition We are also committed to reporting the results of human subject
Failure to protect and inform patients involved in human clinical trial research used to evaluate our products, regardless of whether the
research; conduct objective, ethical preclinical and clinical trials using outcomes are perceived to be positive or negative. We believe this
sound scientific principles; guarantee the integrity of discovery, preclinical, is fundamental to the advancement of medical science and helps to
and clinical development data; manage human biological samples inform prescribers and patients about our products. Further, we are
according to established ethical standards and regulatory expectations; committed to making the data publicly available to enable valid scientific
treat animals ethically and practice good animal welfare; appropriately research. With respect to human biological samples, we are committed
disclose human subject research for medicinal products; and ensure the to managing these samples in a manner that respects the rights of
integrity of our regulatory filings and of the data that we publish. research and clinical participants as well as meeting all applicable legal,
regulatory and ethical obligations.
Risk impact We implement controls to help ensure trials are conducted in
The impacts of the risk include harm to patients, reputational damage, accordance with the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines
failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our products, developed by the International Conference on Harmonisation, and
governmental investigation, legal proceedings (product liability suits based on the principles contained in the World Medical Association
and claims for damages), and regulatory action such as fines, penalties Declaration of Helsinki on the Ethical Principles for Medical Research
or loss of product authorisation, which could materially and adversely Involving Human Subjects (2013).
affect our financial results.
We established an Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy
(OAWES), led by the Chief Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy, to help
Context
ensure the humane and responsible care of animals and increase the
Research relating to animals and humans can raise ethical concerns. knowledge and application of non-animal alternatives for the Group.
While we attempt to proactively address this, animal studies remain a OAWES embeds a framework of animal welfare governance, explores
vital part of our research. In many cases, they are the only method that opportunities for cross-industry data sharing, creates consistency and
can be used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a metrics for the 3Rs (replacement, refinement, and reduction of animals
living body before it is tested in humans, which is generally mandated in research), and conducts quality assessments.
by regulators and ethically imperative. Animal research can also provide
We report the results of our human subject research for our medicines
critical information about the causes of diseases and how they develop.
and vaccines on our publicly accessible clinical study register website,
Some countries require additional animal testing even when medicines
on government-required repositories, and we submit human research
have been approved for use elsewhere.
results as manuscripts for publication in peer reviewed scientific
Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess and journals. We have committed to expanding the register to include
demonstrate an investigational product’s efficacy and safety or further clinical study reports. During 2013, a system was introduced to allow
evaluate the product once it has been approved for marketing. We also researchers to request access to anonymised patient-level data from
work with human biological samples. These samples are fundamental the Group’s clinical trials, subject to review for scientific validity by an
to the discovery, development and safety monitoring of our products. independent panel and certain other conditions.
The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of the We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management (HBSM)
research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and management, governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful
analysis, reporting and storage and retrieval. Our research data is acquisition and management of human biological samples. Our
governed by legislation and regulatory requirements. global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and provides an
experienced group to support internal Sample Custodians on best
Research data and supporting documents are core components at
practice.
various stages of pipeline progression decision-making and also
form the content of regulatory submissions. Poor data integrity can Continuing to enhance our data integrity controls remains an important
compromise our research efforts. priority. During 2013, scientific data misrepresentation was discovered
in relation to a 2010 Nature Medicine publication. We took immediate
There are innate complexities and interdependencies required for
action to retract the publication. A full analysis of the incident of
regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and
scientific data misrepresentation discovered in 2013 was undertaken
development footprint. Currently, rapid changes in submission
and based on this analysis, improved controls are being implemented
requirements in developing countries are increasing the complexity
across R&D.
of meeting regulatory requirements.
The Chief Regulatory Officer oversees the activities of the Regulatory
Mitigating activities Governance Board which includes promoting compliance with
We proactively address ethical concerns raised by research relating regulatory requirements and Group-wide standards, making regulatory
to animals and humans by being transparent about our practices and services more efficient and agile, and further aligning regulatory
regularly engaging with academics, scientists, regulators, policymakers, capabilities with our international business needs at the enterprise
industry colleagues and other stakeholders to request advice or help and local levels.
ensure best practice. We are committed to acting ethically, providing for
the animals’ health and well-being, reducing the number of animals and
finding alternatives to the use of animals.
GSK Annual Report 2013 239Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties
Environment, health and safety and sustainability Strategic priorities: Grow a diversified global company.
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to ethically manage environment, health and safety and Management of EHSS risk is fundamental to our performance and
sustainability (EHSS) consistent with the Group’s objectives, policies reputation. We are committed to appropriately managing EHSS risk and
and relevant laws and regulations. have embedded its importance into our mission to improve the quality of
human life by enabling people to do more, feel better, live longer.
Risk impact
We operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards where
Failure to manage EHSS risks could lead to significant harm to people, practicable and protect employees’ health and well-being, but the right
the environment and communities in which we operate, fines, failure to culture is our essential starting point. Our employment practices are
meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements, litigation designed to create a work place culture in which all employees feel
or regulatory action and could materially and adversely affect our valued, respected, empowered and inspired to achieve our goals.
financial results.
Through our continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability
we have reduced water consumption, hazardous waste, and energy
Context
consumption. We actively manage our environmental remediation
The Group is subject to health, safety and environmental laws obligations to help ensure practices are environmentally sustainable and
of various jurisdictions. These laws impose actual and potential compliant.
obligations to remediate contaminated sites. We have also
been identified as a potentially responsible party under the US Our EHSS performance results are shared with the public each year in
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to our use or
ownership of such sites.
Failure to manage these environmental risks properly could result in
litigation, regulatory action and additional remedial costs that may
materially and adversely affect our financial results. See Note 44 to
the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of the
environmental related proceedings in which we are involved. We
routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters.
Information protection Strategic priorities: Simplify the operating model.
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Risk to the Group’s business activity if critical or sensitive computer The Group has a global information protection policy that is supported
systems or information are not available when needed, are accessed by through a dedicated programme of activity. To increase our focus on
those not authorised, or are deliberately changed or corrupted. information security, the Group established the Office of the Chief
Information Security Officer to provide strategy, direction, and oversight
Risk impact while enhancing our global information security capabilities.
Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and We assess changes in our information protection risk environment
information may result in our inability to maintain patent rights, loss through briefings by government agencies, subscription to commercial
of commercial or strategic advantage, damage to our reputation or threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing with other
business disruption including litigation or regulatory sanction and fines, Pharmaceutical and cross-industry companies.
which could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
We aim to use industry best practices as part of our information
security policies, processes and technologies and invest in strategies
Context
that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security threat
We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as corporate landscape.
strategic plans, sensitive personally identifiable information, intellectual
We are also subject to various laws that govern the processing of
property, manufacturing systems and trade secrets. There is the
Personally Identifiable Information (Pll). To help ensure compliance
potential that malicious or careless actions expose our computer
with cross-border PII transfer requirements, the Group’s Binding
systems or information to misuse or unauthorised disclosure.
Corporate Rules (BCRs) have been approved by the UK Information
Commissioner’s Office for human resource and research activities
data. BCRs make it possible to transfer PII internationally between the
Group’s entities without individual privacy agreements in each European
Union country.
240 GSK Annual Report 2013Crisis and continuity management Strategic priorities: Deliver more products of value. Grow a diversified global company.
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Inability to recover and sustain critical operations following a disruption The Group has in place crisis management and business continuity
or to respond to a crisis incident in a timely manner regardless of cause. plans over all critical business operations. These plans include
authorised response and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility
Risk impact and clear communication plans. We have established a CCM
Failure to manage crisis and continuity management (CCM) effectively governance board with representatives from across the Group to
can lead to prolonged business disruption, greater damage to the provide vital information to the CCM programme team regarding new
Group’s assets, and risk of a medicine’s supply disruption to patients threats, acquisitions or significant business or organisational changes.
and could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Delays A dedicated team of CCM experts supports the business. Their
to R&D activities and delivery of our products to consumers and responsibilities include: Coordinating crisis management and business
patients who rely on them could also expose us to litigation or regulatory continuity training; facilitating exercises and monitoring to provide for
action, materially and adversely affect our financial results and lead to global consistency and alignment; and centrally storing and monitoring
reputational damage. plan updates for crisis management plans and business continuity
plans supporting our critical business processes to help ensure an
Context appropriate level of readiness and response capability is maintained.
Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals rely on our products We also develop and maintain partnerships with external bodies like
being readily available when needed even in the event of a crisis. the Business Continuity Institute and the UN International Strategy for
Our international operations, and those of our partners, maintain a Disaster Risk Reduction which helps improve our business continuity
vast global footprint exposing our people, facilities, operations and initiatives in disaster prone areas.
information technology to potential disruption resulting from a natural We continually improve training programmes and tools based on
event (eg storm or earthquake), a man-made event (eg civil unrest, learning from plan activations. For example, in-depth video case studies
terrorism), or a global emergency (eg global public health emergency). were created to share lessons learned from how we responded to
the 2011 Japan Earthquake and the 2012 US super-storm Sandy.
We regularly evaluate and introduce new tools to improve our CCM
practices.
GSK Annual Report 2013 241Investor information
Shareholder information
Shareholder information
Share capital and control Share buy-back programme
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares held in
under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association. The power
Treasury as at 31 December 2013 can be found in Note 33 to the
under Article 9 and the authority for the company to make purchases
financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities which are
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and are also sought on an annual basis at our Annual General Meeting (AGM).
quoted on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in the form of Any shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or held
American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS represents two as Treasury shares.
Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt and where it is listed refer
During 2013, we continued our long-term buy-back programme and
to Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
92 million shares were purchased at a total cost of £1,504 million.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends (when No shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2014 to 5 February
declared) and the company’s Annual Report, to attend and speak at 2014. In the period 6 February 2014 to 21 February 2014 1.4 million
general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and to exercise shares were purchased at a cost of £22.4 million.
voting rights.
Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or to be
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the holding, held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by
of Ordinary Shares and no requirements to obtain approval prior to shareholders at the AGM in May 2013, when the company was
any transfers. No Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with regard authorised to purchase a maximum of just under 491 million shares.
to control of the company and there are no restrictions on voting Details of shares purchased, those cancelled, and those held as
rights. Major shareholders have the same voting rights per share as Treasury shares are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements
all other shareholders. ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are The exact amount and timing of any future purchases, and the extent
held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather
agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights. than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is
dependent on market conditions and other factors.
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank equally
with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. The trustees
Market capitalisation
of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have waived their
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts.
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2013 was £78.24 billion.
Exchange controls and other limitations At that date, GSK was the fifth largest company by market
capitalisation in the FTSE index.
affecting security holders
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force from Share price
time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, decrees or
regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the 2013 2012 2011
£ £ £
remittance of dividends or other payments to holders of the company’s
At 1 January 13.35 14.72 12.40
shares who are non-residents of the UK. Similarly, other than certain
At 31 December 16.12 13.35 14.72
economic sanctions which may be in force from time to time, there are
Increase/(decrease) 20.7% (9.3)% 18.7%
no limitations relating only to non-residents of the UK under English law
or the company’s Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, High during the year 17.82 15.08 14.74
and to vote in respect of, the company’s shares. Low during the year 13.35 13.18 11.28
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. The
Interests in voting rights
company’s share price increased by 20.7% in 2013. This compares
Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 14.4% during the year.
persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company. The share price on 21 February 2014 was £16.81.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial
Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules
UK£ US$
(DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on
the company’s website. 18 75
At 21 February 2014, the company had received notifications in 17 70
accordance with the FCA’s DTRs of the following notifiable interests 16 65
in the voting rights in the company’s issued share capital:
15 60
*Percentage of 14 55
No. of issued
shares capital (%) 13 50
BlackRock, Inc. 289,405,229 5.96% 12 45
Invesco Asset Management 178,053,354 3.66% 11 40
Legal & General Group Plc 162,498,927 3.34% 10 35
* P ercentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares. 9 30
We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own shares 01/01/11 31/12/11 31/12/12 31/12/13
during the period under review, other than in connection with our UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)
share buy-back programme.
242 GSK Annual Report 2013Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2013
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 101,131 71.15 0.69 37,275,643
1,001 to 5,000 32,682 22.99 1.31 69,879,454
5,001 to 100,000 7,184 5.05 1.93 102,952,396
100,001 to 1,000,000 781 0.55 5.01 267,493,525
Over 1,000,000 367 0.26 91.06 4,864,605,678
142,145 100.00 100.00 5,342,206,696
Held by
Nominee companies 8,235 5.79 70.31 3,756,333,812
Investment and trust companies 28 0.02 0.18 9,397,532
Insurance companies 9 0.01 0.00 6,598
Individuals and other corporate bodies 133,871 94.18 5.20 277,596,502
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 0.00 15.19 811,438,589
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 9.12 487,433,663
142,145 100.00 100.00 5,342,206,696
BNY Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s ADSs, which are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary shares representing the company’s ADR
programme, which is managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY (Nominees) Limited. At 21 February 2014, BNY
(Nominees) Limited held 812,080,863 Ordinary Shares representing 16.72% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares) at
that date.
At 21 February 2014, the number of holders of shares in the USA was 1,070 with holdings of 1,157,342 shares, and the number of registered
holders of ADS was 27,411 with holdings of 406,040,431 ADS. Certain of these shares and ADS were held by brokers or other nominees.
As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the
residence of beneficial holders.
Nature of trading market
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Pence per share US dollars per ADS
Ordinary Shares High Low ADS High Low
February 2014* 1691 1554 February 2014* 56.66 50.90
January 2014 1663 1564 January 2014 54.95 51.54
December 2013 1620 1549 December 2013 53.39 51.05
November 2013 1665 1609 November 2013 53.68 51.94
October 2013 1644 1546 October 2013 52.63 49.31
September 2013 1672 1558 September 2013 51.96 50.17
Quarter ended 31 December 2013 1665 1546 Quarter ended 31 December 2013 53.68 49.31
Quarter ended 30 September 2013 1753 1558 Quarter ended 30 September 2013 52.96 50.17
Quarter ended 30 June 2013 1782 1520 Quarter ended 30 June 2013 53.59 46.79
Quarter ended 31 March 2013 1539 1359 Quarter ended 31 March 2013 46.91 43.93
Quarter ended 31 December 2012 1465 1318 Quarter ended 31 December 2012 47.45 41.90
Quarter ended 30 September 2012 1508 1409 Quarter ended 30 September 2012 47.23 44.26
Quarter ended 30 June 2012 1479 1392 Quarter ended 30 June 2012 47.29 43.45
Quarter ended 31 March 2012 1497 1387 Quarter ended 31 March 2012 46.35 43.73
Year ended 31 December 2011 1474 1312 Year ended 31 December 2011 45.74 40.53
Year ended 31 December 2010 1340 1095 Year ended 31 December 2010 42.97 32.34
Year ended 31 December 2009 1334 987 Year ended 31 December 2009 42.91 27.27
* to 21 February 2014
GSK Annual Report 2013 243Investor information
Shareholder information
Dividends UK shareholders
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds
The company pays dividends quarterly. It continues to return cash to
shares as capital assets.
shareholders through its dividend policy and ongoing long-term share
buy-back programme. Dividends remain an essential component of Taxation of dividends
total shareholder return and the company is committed to increasing UK resident shareholders will generally be subject to UK income tax
its dividend over the long term. Details of the dividends declared, the on the full amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the amount of a
amounts and the payment dates are given in Note 16 to the financial tax credit. The tax credit may be set against the individual’s income
statements, ‘Dividends’. tax liability in respect of the gross dividend, but is not repayable to
shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
Dividends per share
For the tax year 2010-11 and subsequent tax years, an additional rate
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS for the of income tax on dividends was imposed for taxpayers whose income
last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into US dollars at is above £150,000. UK resident shareholders that are corporation
applicable exchange rates. taxpayers should note that dividends are generally entitled to
exemption from corporation tax.
Year Dividend pence US$
2013 78 2.47 Taxation of capital gains
2012 74 2.35 UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal
2011 70 2.25 of shares or ADR. For disposals by individuals and subject to the
2011 Supplemental* 5 0.16 availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual exempt
amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or
2010 65 2.04
ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions, such
2009 61 1.99
shareholder’s taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic rate
* T he 2011 supplemental dividend related to the disposal of certain income tax limit. In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing on
non-core OTC brands in North America. This was paid with the fourth a disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at a
quarter ordinary dividend for 2011. combination of both rates. Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to
Dividend calendar an indexation allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the
extent that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance
Quarter Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date may reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
Q4 2013 19 February 2014 21 February 2014 10 April 2014
Inheritance tax
Q1 2014 14 May 2014 16 May 2014 10 July 2014
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer
Q2 2014 6 August 2014 8 August 2014 2 October 2014
of shares or ADR. Tax may be charged on the amount by which the
Q3 2014 6 November 2014 7 November 2014 8 January 2015
value of the shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result of any transfer
by way of gift or other disposal at less than full market value. If such a
Tax information for shareholders
gift or other disposal were subject to both UK inheritance tax and US
estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax
provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited against tax payable in
consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens of
the UK.
the UK or the USA is set out below. It is not a complete analysis of
all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or
Stamp duty
sale of these securities. It is intended only as a general guide.
UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to
Holders are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax
certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate
consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares or
of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer.
ADR and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the
USA and the implications of the current UK/US tax conventions.
US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the
underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA/UK double
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention),
and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the Code).
244 GSK Annual Report 2013US shareholders Stamp duty
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be
resident of the USA or a domestic corporation or a person that is payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or depository
otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration provided (if
in respect of the shares or ADR) that holds shares or ADR as capital transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for no consideration).
assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not
No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to
hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that
transfer an ADR. No UK stamp duty should be payable on the
is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
transfer of an ADR provided that any instrument of transfer is
The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders that executed and remains at all times outside the UK. Any stamp duty
are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, on the transfer of an ADR would be payable at a rate of 0.5% of the
insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons consideration for the transfer. Any sale of the underlying shares
that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated investment would, subject to certain exceptions, result in liability to UK stamp
(including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADR and one or more duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%.
other positions, and persons that own (directly or indirectly) 10% or
more of the voting stock of the company. Annual General Meeting 2014
Taxation of dividends 2.30pm (UK) on Wednesday, 7 May 2014
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary,
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE
dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for the dividend
received deduction allowed to US corporations. Dividends on ADR
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
are payable in US dollars; dividends on shares are payable in pounds
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business, there will
Sterling. Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income
be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of the Group and
in the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate
its future development. There will be an opportunity for questions to
on the day the dividends are received by the holder. Subject to
be asked to the Board. Chairmen of the Board’s Committees will take
certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual
questions relating to those Committees.
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate
of 23.8% in respect of qualified dividends. Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange
with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of
Taxation of capital gains their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but
ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy from
will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other
BNY Mellon. This will enable them to attend and vote on the business
disposal of shares or ADR. Such gains will be long-term capital gains
to be transacted. ADR holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the
(subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders) if the
way in which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted by
shares or ADR were held for more than one year.
completing and returning the voting card provided by the bank.
Information reporting and backup withholding
Documents on display
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
The Articles of Association of the company and other documents
ADR, paid within the USA or through certain US-related financial
referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection at the
intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be
company’s registered office and on our website and will be made
subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation
available for inspection at the AGM.
or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification number
and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred. Non-US holders
generally are not subject to information reporting or backup
withholding, but may be required to provide a certification of their
non-US status in connection with payments received. Any amounts
withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US
federal income tax liability provided the required information is
furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
Estate and gift taxes
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is
not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
GSK Annual Report 2013 245Investor information
Shareholder information
Financial reporting calendar The definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
political organisations used in the legislation are very wide. In
Publication Date particular, the definition of EU political organisations may extend to
bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform, the
Results announcements
representation of the business community and special interest groups
Quarter 1 April 2014
such as those concerned with the environment, which the company
Quarter 2 July 2014
and its subsidiaries might wish to support. As a result, the definitions
Quarter 3 October 2014
may cover legitimate business activities not in the ordinary sense
Preliminary/Quarter 4 February 2015 considered to be political donations or political expenditure.
Annual Report/Summary February/March 2015
Such activities are not designed to support any political party or
Results announcements independent election candidate. The authority which the Board has
sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that the company
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the legislation.
and are available on its news service. They are also sent to the
US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued Directors
to the media and made available on our website.
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our
Financial reports Articles of Association, which are available on our website. The
Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the members.
The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the shareholder The Directors may exercise all the company’s powers provided that
not needing the full detail of the Annual Report, a Summary. the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any such
These documents are available on our website from the date of powers must be exercised by the members.
publication. The Summary is sent to all shareholders. Shareholders
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors
may elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
are contained in our Articles. They provide that Directors may be
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by
appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of
email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed
www.shareview.co.uk.
in this way retires at the first AGM following his or her appointment.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject
Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK and
to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if
from the GSK Response Center in the USA, (see pages 249 and
they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or more.
250 for the contact details).
However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors who wish to
Donations to political organisations and continue as members of the Board should seek re-election annually in
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. Members may
political expenditure
remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution of which special
notice has been given, or by passing a special resolution.
With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach
to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global A Director may automatically cease to be a Director if:
policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions.
• he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2013, the Group creditors generally
did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations.
• he or she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with the Act or the Articles
Federal Election Campaign Act in the USA, we continue to support an
• he or she is suffering from mental or physical ill health and the
employee-operated Political Action Committee (PAC) that facilitates
Board resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director
voluntary political donations by eligible GSK employees.
• he or she has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts and
period of six months without permission and the Board
recipients of contributions are made by participating employees
resolves that he or she shall cease to be a Director
exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political
contributions, which are subject to strict limitations. In 2013, a total of • he or she is prohibited from being a Director by law
US$484,810 (US$565,630 in 2012) was donated to political • he or she resigns
organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
• he or she offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer
At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company
• all other Directors (being at least three in number) require
to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU
him or her to resign.
political expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties,
Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000 each year.
This authority has since been renewed annually. The Companies Act
2006 requires companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval
before they can make donations to EU political organisations or incur
EU political expenditure.
However, we do not make and do not intend to make donations to
political parties or independent election candidates, nor do we make
any donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political
expenditure.
246 GSK Annual Report 2013Directors’ conflicts of interest US law and regulation
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the
a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict
company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock
of interest or possible conflict with the company. The duty applies, in
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADS.
particular, to the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity
whether or not the company could take advantage of it. Our Articles
NYSE rules
provide a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK
The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board to corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the USA,
grant and periodically, but in any event annually, to review any provided that we explain any significant variations. This explanation is
potential or actual conflict authorisations. Directors are not counted contained in our Form 20-F filing, which can be accessed from the
in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or potential Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) EDGAR database or
conflicts. Authorisations granted are recorded by the Company via our website. NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require us
Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board at its next meeting. to file annual and interim written affirmations concerning the Audit &
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing the Risk Committee and our statement on significant differences in
Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conflicts that may corporate governance.
arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may affect an
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
authorisation previously given. Even when provided with
authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory duty Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the
to promote the success of the company. If an actual conflict arises USA, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Sarbanes-
post-authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the Director Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with
from receipt of the relevant information and participation in the financial reporting and corporate governance.
debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort,
As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a
require the Director to resign.
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO
The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential and to the Audit & Risk Committee. It is chaired by the Company
conflict authorisations in October 2013 and reported to the Board Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance,
that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the legal, corporate communications and investor relations.
process for authorisation continues to operate effectively. Except as
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts are
described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related party
invited to attend its meetings periodically. It has responsibility for
transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no Director or
considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis,
connected person had any material interest in any contract of
determining the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility for
significance with a Group company. the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the
Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2013, the Committee met 10 times.
Independent advice
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or
statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk Committee
more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal
(ARC) is an audit committee financial expert as defined by Sarbanes-
and/or financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an agreed
Oxley. Such a statement for each of the relevant members of the ARC
procedure, which is set out on our website, to enable them to do so.
(Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom de Swaan) is included in
Indemnification of Directors the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 89. Additional disclosure
requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 of Sarbanes-
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and procedures and internal
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors and
control over financial reporting.
former Directors who held office during 2013 and up to the signing
of the Annual Report.
Change of control and essential contracts
We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually are
fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively, nor is
the company party to any material agreements that would take effect,
be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following
a takeover bid. We do not have agreements with any Director that
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting
from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s share plans
may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a
takeover. Details of the termination provisions in the company’s
framework for contracts for Executive Directors are given on pages
122 and 123.
GSK Annual Report 2013 247Investor information
Shareholder information
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal control
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and over financial reporting
the CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of
• they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F
the company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
• based on their knowledge, the Annual Report and Form 20-F Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities Exchange
contains no material misstatements or omissions Act of 1934):
• based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other • management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
Form 20-F and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure in accordance with IFRS
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is • management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal
made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of control over financial reporting based on the framework, Internal
these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results of Control – Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of
such evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission
Form 20-F
• there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
• they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial reporting during 2013 that have materially affected, or are
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal control
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of over financial reporting
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with • management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control
generally accepted accounting principles over financial reporting as at 31 December 2013 and its
• they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F, and
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the consolidated
period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the 2013, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal
company’s internal control over financial reporting, and they have control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No. 5 of
disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal control the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the ARC, all Their audit report will be filed with the Group’s Form 20-F.
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are Section 13(r) of the US Securities Exchange Act
reasonably likely to affect adversely the company’s ability to record, Section 13(r) of US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
process, summarise and report financial information, and any fraud requires issuers to make specific disclosure in their Annual Reports of
(regardless of materiality) involving persons that have a significant certain types of dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings
role in the company’s internal control over financial reporting. with government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of weapons
and with the participation of its management, including the CEO of mass destruction, even when those activities are not prohibited by
and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation US law and do not involve US persons. The Group does not have a
of the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at legal entity based in Iran, but it does export certain pharmaceutical and
31 December 2013. vaccine products from its Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses to
Iran, via sales by non-US entities, to two privately held Iranian
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
distributors and a distributor in the UAE. The Group also does
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
business, via non-US entities, in other jurisdictions targeted by
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
sanctions laws, including Cuba, Syria, and Sudan. We do not believe
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls
that any of the Group’s direct dealings with Iran require specific
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving
disclosure under these requirements, and the Group’s policies limit
their control objectives.
sales to Iran to products of high medical/public health need
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and (determined in part using criteria set by the World Health Organization).
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls The Group has no direct knowledge of the identity of its distributors’
and procedures in February 2014, following which the certificates downstream customers, and it is possible that these customers include
will be filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s Form 20-F. entities, such as government-owned hospitals and pharmacies, that are
owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Iranian government or
by persons or entities sanctioned in connection with terrorism or
proliferation activities. Because the Group has no direct knowledge of
its distributors’ customers, it cannot establish the proportion of gross
revenue or sales potentially attributable to entities affiliated with the
Iranian government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities. As a
result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues (£11.3 million)
and net profits (£4.2 million) from the Group’s sales to Iran in 2013.
248 GSK Annual Report 2013Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA Tel: 0871 384 2991 (in the UK)*
www.shareview.co.uk Tel: +44(0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Shareview service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your You can register at:
share balance and movements, update your address and www.shareview.co.uk
dividend payment instructions and register your votes for our
AGM.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without An application form can be downloaded
requiring a share certificate. The service provides a facility for from
you to hold your shares in a nominee company sponsored by www.shareview.co.uk or
the company. You will continue to receive dividend payments, requested by telephoning Equiniti.
annual reports and can attend and vote at the company’s
general meetings. Shareholders’ names do not appear on the
publicly available share register and the service is free to join.
Dividend payment direct to your bank If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through the A dividend bank mandate form can be
account post, you can instead have them paid directly into your bank downloaded from
or building society account. This is quicker, more secure and www.shareview.co.uk or
avoids the risk of your cheque going astray. requested by telephoning Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, For more details on this service and the
bank account for overseas shareholders Equiniti will convert your dividend into your local currency and costs involved please contact Equiniti.
send it direct to your local bank account. This service is
available in over 100 countries worldwide.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose A DRIP election form can be
(DRIP) to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. downloaded from
www.shareview.co.uk or
requested by telephoning Equiniti.
Duplicate publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of this report or other mailings, Please contact Equiniti.
please contact Equiniti and they will arrange for your accounts
to be merged into one for your convenience and to avoid
waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificate form For internet transactions, please log on
(please note that market trading hours or held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by internet, to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm telephone or by a postal dealing service provided by Equiniti
UK, Monday to Friday, excluding UK Financial Services Limited. For telephone transactions, please call
public holidays) 0845 603 7037 (in the UK) or
+44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK).
For postal transactions, please call
0871 384 2991 to request a dealing
form.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from
Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK www.shareview.co.uk or can be
Ordinary Shares. requested by telephoning Equiniti.
* U K lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays, and calls to the number are charged at 8p per
minute plus network extras.
† T he provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share
dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
GSK Annual Report 2013 249Investor information
Shareholder information
ADR Depositary Share scam alert
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy your
The ADR programme is administered by:
shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a highly
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services organised financial scam.
PO Box 30170 If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Conduct
College Station, TX 77842-3170 Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities,
Overnight correspondence should be sent to: on its consumer helpline:
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services Tel: 0845 606 1234 (in the UK)
211 Quality Circle, Suite 210 Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time,
College Station, TX 77845 Monday to Friday, except UK public holidays.
www.bnymellon.com/shareowner
Corporate Responsibility Report
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside the USA) We are publishing our Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 online.
email: shrrelations@bnymellon.com This will outline GSK’s approach to, and performance in, our key
corporate responsibility areas, Health for all, Our behaviour, Our
The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT†, a direct ADS
people and Our planet.
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
For details of how to enrol please visit www.mbnymdr.com or call Internet
the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
Information about the company, including the share price, is available
on our website at www.gsk.com. Information made available on the
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
Corporate PEPs
The Share Centre Limited Contacts
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ
GSK Response Center
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 141
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Donating shares to Save the Children
Investor relations
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with
Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the aim
of helping to save the lives of one million children.
UK
The GSK and Save the Children partnership will focus in particular on: 980 Great West Road,
Brentford
• developing child-friendly medicines to reduce child mortality and
Middlesex
new-born deaths
TW8 9GS
• widening vaccination coverage to reduce the number of child Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
deaths in the hardest to reach communities
USA
• researching new affordable nutritional products to help alleviate
Five Crescent Drive
malnutrition in children
Philadelphia PA 19112
• increasing investment in the training, reach and scope of health Tel: 1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
workers in the poorest communities to help reduce child mortality Tel: +1 215 751 4000 (outside the USA)
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to
Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated and sold by
Save the Children who will use the funds raised to help them reach
the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar, Equiniti,
who is managing the donation and sale of UK shares to Save the
Children free of charge.
† T he provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an
invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker
or independent financial adviser.
250 GSK Annual Report 2013Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two
Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) In 2012, the company entered into a settlement with the US Federal Government related to
past sales and marketing practices. As part of the settlement the company entered into a
Corporate Integrity Agreement with the US Department of Health and Human Services, under
which improvements are being built into its existing compliance programmes.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GlaxoSmithKline exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how
it has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.
GSK Annual Report 2013 251Investor information
Index
Index
Page Page
Accounting principles and policies 136 Investor relations 250
Acquisitions and disposals 181 Key accounting judgements and estimates 140
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Key performance indicators 16
cash flows 179 Late-stage pipeline summary 43
Annual General Meeting 245 Legal proceedings 204
Assets held for sale 163 Long-term Incentive plans 100
Associates and joint ventures 151 Major restructuring costs 150
Board 76 Movements in equity 177
Cash and cash equivalents 163 Net debt 174
Chairman’s statement 2 New accounting requirements 142
Chief Executive’s review 4 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 109
Commitments 187 Notes to the financial statements 136
Committee reports 88 Operating profit 148
Competition 11 Other intangible assets 159
Consolidated balance sheet 133 Other investments 162
Consolidated cash flow statement 135 Other non-current assets 162
Consolidated income statement 132 Other non-current liabilities 173
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 134 Other operating income 147
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 132 Other provisions 172
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 11 Outlook 15
Contingent liabilities 174 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 164
Corporate Executive Team 80 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Corporate governance 82 intellectual property 229
Critical accounting policies 67 Pipeline 225
Directors and senior management 116 Presentation of the financial statements 136
Directors’ interests in shares 110 Principal Group companies 202
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 128 Property, plant and equipment 155
Dividends 154 Quarterly trend 218
Donations to political organisations and Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 180
political expenditure 246 Registrar 249
Earnings per share 154 Related party transactions 179
Employee costs 149 Relations with shareholders 88
Employee share schemes 198 Remuneration policy report 117
Employees 54 Remuneration Report 96
Exchange rates 142 Research and development 32
Executive Director remuneration 97 Responsible business 50
Finance expense 151 Risk factors 232
Finance income 150 Segment information 143
Financial instruments and related disclosures 188 Segment reviews 22
Financial position and resources 69 Share capital and control 242
Financial review 58 Share capital and share premium account 176
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Share price 242
under UK GAAP 211 Shareholder information 242
Five year record 222 Strategy 14
Glossary of terms 251 Taxation 152
Goodwill 157 Taxation information for shareholders 244
Independent Auditors’ report 129 The Remuneration Committee 107
Intellectual property and trademarks 157 Trade and other payables 164
Inventories 162 Trade and other receivables 163
Investments in associates and joint ventures 161 US law and regulation 247
252 GSK Annual Report 2013About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an Notice regarding limitations on Director Liability
under English Law
English public limited company on 6 December Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the
liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions
1999. We were formed by a merger between from the Directors’ Report (for which see page 95), the
Strategic Report (pages 2 to 74) and the Remuneration Report
Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Beecham (pages 96 to 126). Under English law the Directors would be
liable to the company, but not to any third party, if one or more
plc. GSK acquired these two English companies of these reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or
knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material
on 27 December 2000 as part of the merger fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
arrangements. Website
GlaxoSmithKline’s website www.gsk.com gives additional
information on the Group. Notwithstanding the references
we make in this Annual Report to GlaxoSmithKline’s website,
Our shares are listed on the London Stock none of the information made available on the website
constitutes part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed
Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. to be incorporated by reference herein.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking
statements
Read more at www.gsk.com The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this
document and written information released, or oral statements
made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group,
may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements give the Group’s current expectations or forecasts
of future events. An investor can identify these statements by
the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current
facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’,
‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and
terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of
future operating or financial performance. In particular, these
include statements relating to future actions, prospective
products or product approvals, future performance or results
of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses,
the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings,
and financial results. The Group undertakes no obligation to
update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result
of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and
uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number
of important factors, including those in this document, could
cause actual results to differ materially from those contained
in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but
are not limited to, those discussed under ‘Risk factors’ on
pages 232-241 of this Annual Report.
A number of adjusted measures are used to report the
performance of our business. These measures are defined
on page 58.
Brand names
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report
are trademarks which in 2013 were either owned by and/or
licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with
the exception of NicoDerm, a trademark of Johnson & Johnson,
Novartis, Sanofi or GlaxoSmithKline, Potiga, a trademark of
Valeant, Prolia and Xgeva, trademarks of Amgen, Axentri, a
trademark of Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Volibris, a trademark
of Gilead, Xyzal, a trademark of UCB or GlaxoSmithKline and
Zyrtec, a trademark of UCB or GlaxoSmithKline all of which
are used in certain countries under licence by the Group.
Printing
Printed at Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
FSC® certified and CarbonNeutral®.
Paper
This Annual Report is printed on
Amadeus 100 silk, a 100% recycled
paper with full FSC certification.
All pulps used are made from 100%
de-inked, post-consumer waste
and are elemental chlorine free.
The manufacturing mill holds the ISO
14001 and EU Eco-label certificates
for environmental management.www.gsk.com
Here you will find downloadable PDFs of:
• Annual Report 2013
• Annual Summary 2013
• Form 20-F
• Corporate Responsibility Report 2013
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
You can also search for us here
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792