Annual Report
2021New ambitions for patients, shareholders
and our people
In 2021, we made major progress on our journey towards the most significant
corporate change for GSK in more than 20 years. We are on track to separate in
2022 to create two new leading companies, both with the opportunity to impact
human health at scale and deliver compelling performance for shareholders.
GSK Haleon
GSK will unite science, talent and technology to Haleon will be a global leader 100% focused on
get Ahead of disease Together. We will prioritise consumer health. It will have a clear purpose to
innovation in vaccines and specialty medicines, deliver better everyday health with humanity, and a
maximising the increasing opportunities to prevent focused strategy to deliver sustainable above-market
and treat disease. growth and attractive returns to shareholders.
Step change in growth Strong prospects for growth
– Expected sales growth of more than 5% and adjusted – Exceptional portfolio of category-leading brands with
operating profit growth of more than 10% on a attractive global footprint and competitive capabilities
compound basis 2021-26 – Compelling strategy to outperform in a growing, £150
– R&D focused on the science of the immune system, billion plus sector which is more relevant than ever
human genetics and advanced technologies – 4-6% annual organic sales growth in the medium term,
– Positively impacting the health of more than 2.5 billion sustainable moderate margin expansion and high cash
people over ten years conversion
– Leading ESG performance to be maintained – Attractive growth profile with capacity to invest and
deliver shareholder returns
We set out our new purpose, growth commitments We set out our strategy, capabilities and growth
and R&D catalysts at an investor update in June 2021. ambitions at a Consumer Healthcare capital markets
For more detail see gsk.com day in February 2022. For more detail see gsk.com
Contents
Strategic report Board committee information 93 Financial statements 168
Our business model 01 Board architecture 94 Notes to the financial statements 172
2021 performance summary 02 Board activity 95 Financial statements of
Chair’s statement 03 Board progress in 2021 96 GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
CEO’s statement 05 Board’s approach to continuous under UK GAAP 252
Financial performance 07 engagement 99
Our long-term priorities 10 Board-led purpose and culture 102 Investor information
Our culture 11 Board performance 103 Quarterly trend 258
Key performance indicators 12 Board committee reports 104 Five-year record 263
Our external environment 13 Section 172 statement 116 Product development pipeline 269
Innovation 17 Directors’ report 117 Products, competition and
Performance 29 intellectual property 272
Trust 34 Remuneration report Principal risks and uncertainties 275
Consumer Healthcare 41 Chair’s annual statement 120 Share capital and share price 288
Stakeholder engagement 44 Annual report on remuneration 125 Dividends 290
Risk management 46 2022 Remuneration policy summary 143 Financial calendar 2022 291
Group financial review 55 2022 Remuneration policy report 144 Annual General Meeting 2022 291
Tax information for shareholders 292
Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder services and contacts 294
The Board and GSK Leadership Team 83 Directors’ statement of US law and regulation 296
Chair’s Governance statement 89 responsibilities 154 Group companies 299
Board roles and responsibilities 92 Independent Auditor’s report 156 Glossary of terms 311
Cautionary statement
See the inside back cover of this document for the cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements.
Non-IFRS measures
We use a number of adjusted, non-International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) measures to report the performance of our business. Total reported
results represent the Group’s overall performance under IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a
substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures are defined on pages 56 and 59 and
reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures are on pages 70 to 73.GSK Annual Report 2021 01
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our business model
As we prepare for a new future, we continue to help improve the health of
hundreds of millions of people around the world by discovering, developing and
manufacturing innovative medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products.
What we do
We develop and deliver medicines, vaccines and consumer Central to our success are our people: experts in science,
healthcare products that impact human health at scale. Our technology, manufacturing, regulation, intellectual property
operations span the value chain from identifying, researching, and commercialisation. We also collaborate with world-leading
developing and testing ground-breaking discoveries, to experts and form strategic partnerships to complement our
regulatory approval, manufacturing and commercialisation. existing capabilities.
The value we create: now and in the future
The greatest contribution we make is to improve the health We aim to be a modern employer, developing our people
of people around the world. In 2021 that included delivering and offering a broad range of benefits, including preventative
1.7 billion medicines, over 767 million vaccines1 and 3.7 billion healthcare services, that help us attract and retain the best
consumer healthcare products. Looking ahead, GSK has a people.
clear ambition to positively impact the health of more than
We employ over 90,000 people across 92 countries and work
2.5 billion people over the next ten years.
directly with 37,500 suppliers. In 2021 we paid £1.3 billion in
We create value for shareholders by investing in our business corporation tax, as well as a significant amount of other
to provide shareholder returns, and in 2021 we paid a dividend business and employment-related taxes.
of 80 pence per share. We have made new commitments
to growth and a step change in performance over the next
five years.
Delivering strategic transformation by prioritising Innovation, Performance
and Trust
In recent years, we have transformed GSK to improve Performance is delivered by investing effectively in our
performance, strengthen capabilities and prepare for a business and our people and executing competitively. Our
new future. We have done this by prioritising Innovation, ability to launch new products successfully and grow sales from
Performance and Trust – across the entire company – our existing portfolio is key to our commercial success. Over the
driving a multi-year programme to improve R&D productivity, next five years, with 2021 as a base year, we expect GSK to
commercial execution, Group structure and capital allocation. deliver highly attractive growth with sales and adjusted
This is underpinned by a new culture with more ambition and operating profit of more than 5% and more than 10%
accountability. respectively on a compound basis.
Innovation is critical to how we improve health and create Trust underpins everything we do. We have maintained
financial value. In 2021, our total R&D expenditure was our acknowledged leadership in environmental, social and
£5.3 billion, up by 3.5% AER on 2020. We have a robust governance (ESG) issues, demonstrated by our sector-leading
late-stage R&D pipeline with many assets having the potential to position in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and our long-
be first or best in class. We continue to believe the rapid standing leadership in the Access to Medicine Index.
convergence of science and technology in biopharmaceuticals We remain deeply committed to addressing the issues that
provides significant opportunity and is why our R&D will matter for the sustainability of our company, including pricing
continue to focus on the science of the immune system, human and access, global health, the environment, and inclusion and
genetics and use of advanced technologies. diversity, working with integrity and care.
1 Including AS03 adjuvant sales2021 performance summary
Strong commercial execution drives growth across Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines
and Consumer Healthcare (excluding divestments/brands under review)
– £34.1 billion Group turnover stable at AER, +5% CER
– Pharmaceuticals £17.7 billion +4% AER, +10% CER; new and specialty medicines
£10 billion +20% AER, +26% CER
– Vaccines £6.8 billion -3% AER, +2% CER
– COVID-19 solutions sales £1.4 billion
– Consumer Healthcare £9.6 billion -4% AER, stable CER (+4% excluding brands divested/under
review)
Cost discipline supports delivery of adjusted EPS growth
– Total EPS 87.6p -24% AER, -13% CER
– Adjusted EPS 113.2p -2% AER, +9% CER; contribution to growth from COVID-19 solutions +8%
AER, +9% CER
– Total operating profit £6.2 billion -20% AER, -9% CER
– Adjusted operating profit £8.8 billion -1% AER, +9% CER
– Dividend of 80p
Continued momentum in R&D delivery and strengthening of pipeline
– Three major product approvals; 8 phase III starts; 22 vaccines and medicines in pivotal trials
– Strong pipeline of 21 vaccines and 43 medicines, many of which offer potential best or
first-in-class opportunities for patients
– 20+ deals executed securing access to novel clinical programmes including in immuno-oncology,
immuno-neurology and flu, plus technologies that expand our capabilities in human genetics and
artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML)
On track to create two new leading companies through demerger in mid-2022
– New GSK investor update in June 2021 set out our new purpose, growth commitments and R&D
catalysts. For detail see gsk.com
– Consumer Healthcare capital markets day in February 2022 highlighted our strategic priorities, key
growth drivers and detailed financial information. For detail see gsk.com
Leading ESG performance
– 1st in the pharmaceutical industry for Dow Jones Sustainability Index
– 1st in the Access to Medicine Index
– Gold recognition in S&P’s Sustainability Yearbook
– A- in CDP Climate Change
02 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 03
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Chair’s statement
We made significant progress towards demerging GSK into two
leading and competitive companies in mid-2022.
GSK has been delivering a programme of fundamental strategic We have made considerable advances on our distinctive
transformation since Emma started as CEO five years ago, approach to R&D based on the science of the immune system,
designed to tackle the root causes of the company’s long-term human genetics and advanced technologies under our Chief
underperformance, including on shareholder returns. Scientific Officer (CSO) Hal Barron. Tony Wood will transition
into the role of CSO from August as part of a carefully
The Board is pleased that under Emma’s leadership 2021
considered succession plan and will build on the significant
saw further progress against the clear priorities set to enable
progress already made. Tony is one of the world’s leading
this: improving the pipeline and R&D productivity, sharpening
chemists and has an impressive track record of medicine
commercial execution and cost discipline and tackling the
development over his 30-year career in the UK and US.
Group’s structure and capital allocation priorities, underpinned
by a shift in culture. Progress was started to be reflected in the share price
performance during 2021. However, the Board (and
Building on the significant progress made over this period,
management) recognise that sustaining this over the long term
I believe we are now firmly on track to demerge GSK into
will depend on consistent performance, delivery and further
two world-class companies in mid-2022 – one focused
strengthened competitiveness.
on pharmaceuticals and vaccines and one focused on
consumer healthcare.
Targets for sustained performance
2021 delivery As well as performance in-year, the Board maintains a clear
focus and oversight of the company’s strategy and plans to
The Board remains focused on ensuring GSK’s fundamentals
separate which is proposed, subject to shareholder approval,
continue to be enhanced to ensure both companies are fully
to happen in mid-2022.
competitive at the point of split.
At the investor update in June 2021, the purpose and strategy
While the COVID-19 pandemic continued to mean a highly
of new GSK was set out and clear performance targets for
dynamic operating environment, the Board was pleased the
sales and operating profit margin growth, beginning in 2022, company exceeded its earnings per share guidance set at
were communicated. If achieved, these would represent top
the start of the year. This was achieved through over-delivery
quartile performance in our sector. Similar stretching ambitions
across the business, including excellent commercial execution
are being set for the consumer health business.
in key markets and therapy areas, showing our ability to
compete and grow market share. The Board was also pleased Of course, management must now deliver against the targets
to see the commercial performance and patient impact of set. And we are clear remuneration must be tied to enhancing
Xevudy, our leading monoclonal antibody for COVID-19 shareholder value. As such, we are linking executive
developed through our partnership with Vir Biotechnology. remuneration to reward for outperformance. Further details of
these proposals are laid out later in this report and there will be
Savings programmes announced in early 2020 have delivered
a chance for shareholders to vote on them at our AGM in May.
and, as a result, GSK’s cost base is now competitive versus
our peers. Capital allocation priorities are clear – to invest in In addition to what new GSK does, the Board is fully focused on
the R&D pipeline, new product launches, and delivering returns how the company operates, through a clear agenda for ESG
to shareholders. (environmental, social, governance) leadership. GSK has a
strong tradition to build on in these areas including maximising
access to medicines across the world and ensuring further
progress on these matters will be a priority.Chair’s statement continued
Shareholder engagement and Board transition As we move closer to separation, we are also continuing to
Through this period of considerable transition, the Board and assess the skills, capabilities and experience the GSK Board
management have maintained very significant engagement will need as a pure biopharma business. I was delighted to
with shareholders. It is clear from this that, the vast majority welcome Anne Beal to the Board in May. Anne brings extensive
support the strategy and direction the company is taking, and healthcare experience as a doctor and entrepreneur combined
are clear there should be no distraction from sustained delivery. with a passion for patient advocacy. In January, Dr Harry (Hal)
This message has been heard by the Board whose C Dietz, joined the Board. Hal is a world-leading expert in
accountability first and foremost is to act in the interests human genetics and Professor of genetic medicine at the Johns
of all shareholders. Hopkins University School of Medicine in the US. I am confident
that with these appointments, and the continued input of Hal
A key part of this strategy is the separation of Consumer
Barron from August as a Non-Executive Board Director, the
Healthcare, where there is a broad base of support among
scientific credentials of GSK’s Board are now among the
shareholders for direct ownership of this outstanding business
strongest in the industry.
through a demerger. Of course, the GSK Board has a fiduciary
duty to remain open to consider alternative proposals to I also want to take this opportunity to thank Lynn Elsenhans,
demerger that could create superior value for shareholders, who will be stepping down at the separation of the consumer
but no such proposals have been received to date. health business in mid-2022. Lynn has made an outstanding
contribution to the Board and the development of current
We are now in the final stages of creating what will be an
strategy over ten years, including notably as Chair of the
exceptional company and I’m delighted with the designate
Corporate Responsibility Committee, which is increasingly
appointments of Sir Dave Lewis to lead the Board and Brian
at the centre of the Board’s work. She will be missed by all
McNamara as CEO. We strongly believe the new company
on the Board.
offers an attractive profile for prospective investors, as reflected
by the growth outlooks set out at the capital markets day in Finally, I would like to thank all employees, partners,
February 2022. shareholders and customers for their support and commitment
through the last year and I look forward to what promises to be
an exciting 2022 for GSK.
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
04 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 05
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
CEO’s statement
We ended 2021 strongly, and we enter 2022 with good momentum.
This is going to be a landmark year for the company.
I am very pleased to report that in 2021, GSK delivered Of course, one priority has been to contribute solutions to the
strong operational performance and pipeline progress. At COVID-19 pandemic. We have successfully developed a new
the same time, we completed our multi-year programme of monoclonal antibody treatment, Xevudy, with our partners Vir
far reaching transformation to tackle long-standing issues Biotechnology. This medicine has proven effective against
impacting the company’s success. multiple variants, including Omicron, and we are now securing
rapid regulatory approvals worldwide. Through our adjuvant
We are now ready to deliver the most significant corporate
partnerships, we stand ready to supply new vaccines when their
change for GSK in 20 years: creating two new, exceptional
data reads out. More broadly, we are also increasing investment
companies with ambitious targets for growth and with a clear
in our mRNA capability – this major new platform now validated
purpose to positively impact the health and lives of billions
by the pandemic.
of people.
Never has the role of vaccines been more widely appreciated or
2021 performance provides momentum understood by the world than right now, and the opportunity for
Group sales were £34 billion in 2021, up 5% CER. Our GSK to protect people and deliver growth in a broad range of
products meaningfully helped patients across a range of vaccines remains very significant.
different disease areas, including respiratory, immuno- Much of the progress we have seen in R&D over the last four
inflammation, oncology and HIV; protected people from viruses years is due to the outstanding leadership of Hal Barron, our
like shingles and meningitis; prevented hospitalisations and CSO. In August, he will hand over responsibility to Tony Wood,
deaths from COVID-19; and helped improve oral health, who has been a key partner to Hal. Tony is an outstanding
reduce pain and treat everyday ailments. scientist, and with his deep expertise in science, data and new
Strong operational performance enabled us to increase technologies, is perfectly placed to take over and capture the
investment in R&D to £5.3 billion and to realise earnings per value and opportunities we see with GSK’s R&D approach.
share in excess of expectations for the year. In addition, we We are also delighted that Hal will remain part of GSK as a
generated over £4.4 billion of free cash flow, supporting Non-Executive Board Director.
investments and a dividend of 80 pence per share for the year.
New purpose and new ambition
The improvements we have made to our commercial execution
With the demerger of Consumer Healthcare, we will establish a
and cost base, together with strengthening portfolio and
new GSK, purely focused on biopharmaceuticals. Last year, we
pipeline, mean we now have momentum to deliver a step-
announced a new purpose and new growth ambitions for this
change in growth starting in 2022.
new company.
Accelerating our innovation GSK’s new purpose is to unite science, talent and technology
We continue to believe the rapid convergence of science to get Ahead of disease Together. We will do this by prioritising
and technology in biopharmaceuticals provides significant innovation in vaccines and specialty medicines, maximising
opportunity for GSK. It is why our R&D will continue to focus opportunities to prevent and treat disease. Our aim is to
on the science of the immune system, human genetics and positively impact the health of more than 2.5 billion people over
use of advanced technologies. This approach is delivering the next ten years, deliver stronger and more sustainable returns
improvements in R&D and our pipeline. to shareholders, and be a company where outstanding
people thrive.
In the last 12 months, we reported regulatory approvals
for three new medicines, including the first-ever long-acting We have set ourselves ambitious five-year sales and operating
injectable PrEP treatment option for HIV, as well as starting profit compounded growth targets, of more than 5% and more
eight phase III clinical trials. We currently have 22 assets in than 10% respectively. By 2031, we aim to deliver more than
pivotal clinical studies at the time of reporting. We also £33 billion in annual sales – this, from sales of existing late-
concluded more than 20 deals with external partners, securing stage pipeline assets, with no contribution yet included from
access to novel clinical programmes in oncology, neurology early-stage assets or future business development. These
and HIV; as well innovative technologies, notably through targets represent a new level of ambition for GSK and would
further expansion of our capabilities in human genetics, deliver top-quartile sector performance.
functional genomics and use of artificial intelligence. We are embedding these commitments deeply in the company,
These achievements spearhead a strengthening pipeline, including in incentive programmes, to drive focus and action.
21 vaccines and 43 medicines now in clinical development –
many of which have the potential to be first or best-in-class.CEO's statement continued
A culture for performance and support to succeed Haleon – a new world-leading consumer
I strongly believe GSK should be a company where people health company
can thrive. Creating the right culture to do this and to deliver Haleon is a compelling prospect. Completely dedicated to
our new purpose and performance aspirations is a priority for consumer health, and with a world-class portfolio of category-
me and my team. We are focused on GSK being a place where leading brands, it offers an attractive proposition. It brings deep
people are ambitious for patients, accountable for impact and human understanding together with trusted science – to deliver
do the right thing. better everyday health with humanity. It will be a world leader
and, as a new standalone company, will offer prospective
We also have an enormous responsibility to inspire and support
investors a highly attractive financial profile of above-market
our people to succeed. We continue to look for ways to invest
sales growth, sustainable margin expansion and high cash
in our people’s growth and development and to help them
generation.
balance their work and personal lives. This includes a strong
focus on management skills, training and support for mental It will have a fantastic leadership team, led by CEO designate
health and wellbeing, as well as the health and safety of all Brian McNamara, and a Board led by Sir Dave Lewis who
who work at GSK. brings a wealth of international consumer sector experience.
Last year, we put in place additional new programmes to The creation of Haleon reflects successful delivery of a series
support these priorities and we are committed to developing of progressive strategic moves we took over the last few years.
more. The same is true for our approach to inclusion, equity Altogether, we estimate that through acquisitions, integrations of
and diversity. We have made good progress against our new businesses and targeted divestments, close to £15 billion
2025 aspirational targets for female and ethnically diverse of value has been created in this business.
representation in senior roles. We are also taking steps to
It is now time for shareholders to access that value and invest
ensure our clinical trials are representative of the patients
in what we believe will be a strong, highly successful growth-
we aim to help.
orientated business, capable of delivering sustainable
performance and returns.
ESG leader
Operating responsibly is core to GSK. Our aim is to continue 2022 is a landmark year
to deliver sector-leading ESG performance – as recognised
The pandemic has shone a spotlight like never before on the
in our latest rankings in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index,
difference our industry can make to society. To see how our
the Access to Medicine Index and Anti-Microbial Resistance
people – scientists, factory teams, supply experts, those who
benchmark. This reflects progress across our six core ESG
work with healthcare professionals, and many thousands of
areas: Environment, Access, Global Health, Inclusion and
others – have risen to the challenge of ensuring patients and
Diversity, Product Governance, Ethics. All of these have clear,
people in all parts of the world continue to receive the products
long-term goals and ambitions, but we are not complacent and
they need has been deeply inspiring. It reflects the very deep
we want to go further.
commitment that people working at GSK have for the people
We set carbon net-zero and nature positive goals in 2020 and, we serve and for each other.
recognising the increasing need and importance to provide
Our people are the reason why GSK and Haleon will be
investors, and other stakeholders, with evidence of tangible
successful in years to come. I want to thank them for all they
ESG performance, we are developing new measures and
have achieved in 2021 and the momentum they are delivering.
reporting. Validated by third parties and our own audit teams,
I am excited and optimistic for the future. 2022 will be a
we will share this with investors later this year. I hope it will
landmark year for GSK and we are committed to those who
further demonstrate our commitment to best-in-class ESG
rely on us and excited by what we can achieve together.
performance and transparent reporting.
Emma Walmsley
Chief Executive Officer
06 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 07
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial performance
Operating profit
Operating performance – 2021
Total operating profit was £6,201 million compared with
Turnover £7,783 million in 2020. This primarily reflected an unfavourable
comparison to the net profit on disposal in Q2 2020 of Horlicks
2021
Growth Growth and other Consumer brands and resultant sale of shares in
£m £% CER% Hindustan Unilever. This was partly offset by lower major
Pharmaceuticals 17,729 4 10 restructuring costs, lower re-measurement charges on the
Vaccines 6,778 (3) 2 contingent consideration liabilities and the unwind in 2020 of
Consumer Healthcare 9,607 (4) – the fair market value uplift on inventory arising on completion
Group turnover 34,114 – 5 of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with Pfizer.
Adjusted operating profit was £8,806 million, 1% lower than
Financial results
2020 at AER, but 9% higher at CER on a turnover increase of
2021
5% CER. The Adjusted operating margin of 25.8% was 0.3
Growth
£m £% CER% percentage points lower at AER, 0.9 percentage points higher
Turnover 34,114 – 5 on a CER basis than in 2020. The increase in Adjusted
Total operating profit 6,201 (20) (9) operating profit primarily reflected the benefit from incremental
Total earnings per share 87.6p (24) (13) pandemic sales, sales growth in Pharmaceuticals and tight
Adjusted operating profit 8,806 (1) 9 control of ongoing costs, favourable legal settlements and
Adjusted earnings per share 113.2p (2) 9 benefits from continued restructuring across the business.
Net cash from operating activities 7,952 (6) This was offset by lower sales in Vaccines, higher supply chain
Free cash flow 4,437 (18) costs in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, divestments in
Consumer Healthcare and increased investment in R&D across
Turnover
Vaccines and Pharmaceuticals.
Strong commercial execution drives growth across
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare Earnings per share
(excluding brands divested/under review) Total EPS was 87.6p, compared with 115.5p in 2020. This
Group turnover was £34,114 million in the year, stable at AER primarily reflected an unfavourable comparison as 2020
but up 5% CER. Sales of COVID-19 solutions (sales of Xevurdy benefited from the net profit on disposal of Horlicks and related
and pandemic adjuvant) contributed approximately 4 percentage transactions, partly offset by a credit of £397 million to Taxation
points to growth in the year. in 2021 resulting from the revaluation of deferred tax assets,
lower major restructuring costs and lower re-measurement
Pharmaceutical turnover in the year was £17,729 million, up
charges on the contingent consideration liabilities. Adjusted
4% AER and 10% CER. Sales of Xevudy, the monoclonal
EPS was 113.2p compared with 115.9p in 2020, down 2%
antibody treatment for COVID-19 of £958 million contributed
AER but up 9% CER, on a 9% CER increase in Adjusted
approximately 6 percentage points to total Pharmaceuticals
operating profit primarily reflecting incremental pandemic sales,
growth.
sales increases in Pharmaceuticals, tight cost control and
Vaccines turnover was £6,778 million in the year, down favourable legal settlements and lower interest costs, partly
3% AER but up 2% CER, primarily driven by pandemic offset by lower sales in Vaccines, higher supply chain costs in
adjuvant sales, partially offset by lower demand for routine Vaccines, increased R&D investment and a higher effective
adult vaccination due to COVID-19 vaccination programme tax rate.
deployment and disease circulation across regions. Vaccines
Cash flow
turnover excluding pandemic vaccines decreased 9% AER,
5% CER to £6,331 million. The net cash inflow from operating activities for the year
was £7,952 million (2020 – £8,441 million). The decrease
Consumer Healthcare turnover was £9,607 million, down
primarily reflected adverse exchange impacts, increased trade
4% AER but remained stable at CER reflecting dilution from
receivables, adverse timing of returns and rebates (RAR) and
divestments given the completion of the portfolio rationalisation
increased separation costs, partly offset by improved adjusted
at the end of Q1 2021. Sales excluding brands divested/under
operating profit at CER and reduced tax payments including tax
review decreased 1% AER but increased 4% CER reflecting
on disposals.
the underlying strength of brands across the portfolio and
categories and continuing growth in e-commerce.Financial performance continued
Total and Adjusted results
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall They may not be directly comparable with similarly described
performance. measures used by other companies.
GSK also uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any
report the performance of its business. Adjusted results and single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports
other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety.
but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented
GSK is undertaking a number of Board-approved Major
in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results are defined below
restructuring programmes in response to significant changes in
and other non-IFRS measures are defined on page 59.
the Group’s trading environment or overall strategy, or following
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered material acquisitions. Costs, both cash and non-cash, of these
together with Total results, provide investors, analysts and programmes are provided for as individual elements are
other stakeholders with helpful complementary information approved and meet the accounting recognition criteria.
to understand better the financial performance and position
As a result, charges may be incurred over a number of years
of the Group from period to period, and allow the Group’s
following the initiation of a Major restructuring programme.
performance to be more easily compared against the majority
of its peer companies. These measures are also used by
management for planning and reporting purposes.
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Separation Adjusted
Adjusting items results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items costs results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,114 34,114
Cost of sales (11,603) 701 (33) 154 28 27 (10,726)
Gross profit 22,511 701 (33) 154 28 27 23,388
Selling, general and administration (10,975) 426 25 17 282 (10,225)
Research and development (5,278) 101 355 46 (4,776)
Royalty income 419 419
Other operating (expense)/income (476) 1,106 (662) 32 –
Operating profit 6,201 802 322 626 1,159 (618) 314 8,806
Net finance costs (756) 2 1 (753)
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 33 33
Loss on disposal of interest in associates (36) 36 –
Profit before taxation 5,442 802 322 628 1,159 (581) 314 8,086
Taxation (346) (159) (81) (114) (196) (470) (49) (1,415)
Tax rate 6.4% 17.5%
Profit after taxation 5,096 643 241 514 963 (1,051) 265 6,671
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 711 295 1,006
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,385 643 241 514 668 (1,051) 265 5,665
Earnings per share 87.6p 12.9p 4.8p 10.3p 13.3p (21.0)p 5.3p 113.2p
Intangible asset amortisation and impairment Divestments, significant legal and other items
Amortisation of intangible assets excludes computer software Proceeds and costs of disposal of associates, products and
and capitalised development costs. Impairment of intangible businesses; significant settlement income; significant legal
assets (excluding computer software) and goodwill. charges (net of insurance recoveries) and expenses on the
settlement of litigation and government investigations; other
Major restructuring
operating income other than royalty income, and other items
Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible including the impact of the revaluation of deferred tax assets
assets and computer software, (under specific Board approved and liabilities following enactment of the increase in the headline
programmes that are structural, of a significant scale and where rate of UK corporation tax from 19% to 25% (effective 2023).
the costs of individual or related projects exceed £25 million),
including integration costs following material acquisitions. Separation costs
Additional costs to establish Consumer Healthcare as an
Transaction-related
independent business, as well as admission listing and
Transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related to demerger costs.
significant acquisitions.
08 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 09
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial performance continued
Adjusted results
2021 2020
% of % of Growth
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 34,114 100 34,099 100 – 5
Cost of sales (10,726) (31.4) (10,191) (29.9) 5 8
Gross profit 23,388 68.6 23,908 70.1 (2) 4
Selling, general and administration (10,225) (30.0) (10,717) (31.4) (5) (1)
Research and development (4,776) (14.0) (4,603) (13.5) 4 8
Royalty income 419 1.2 318 0.9 32 32
Operating profit 8,806 25.8 8,906 26.1 (1) 9
Net finance costs (753) (844)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 8,086 8,095 – 11
Taxation (1,415) (1,295)
Tax rate 17.5% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 6,671 6,800 (2) 9
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,006 1,031
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,665 5,769
Earnings per share 113.2p 115.9p (2) 9
The increase in Adjusted operating profit primarily reflected
How we performed
the benefit from incremental pandemic sales contributing
Cost of sales approximately 6% AER, 7% CER to Adjusted operating profit
growth. Adjusted operating profit also benefited from sales
Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 31.4%,
growth in Pharmaceuticals including the benefit from prior period
1.6 percentage points higher at AER and 0.8 percentage points
RAR adjustments and tight control of ongoing costs including
higher at CER compared with 2020. This primarily reflected
reduced promotional and variable spending across all three
higher pandemic sales (Xevudy) as well as higher supply chain
businesses as a result of the COVID-19 lockdowns, favourable
costs in Vaccines resulting from lower demand and higher
legal settlements compared to increased legal costs in 2020 inventory adjustments and higher commodity and freight costs
and benefits from continued restructuring across the business.
in Consumer Healthcare, partly offset by price benefits in
This was partly offset by lower sales in Vaccines, primarily
Pharmaceuticals, including the benefit from prior period RAR
Shingrix, higher supply chain costs in Vaccines and Consumer
adjustments, a further contribution from restructuring savings
Healthcare, divestments in Consumer Healthcare and increased
across all three businesses and favourable mix in Vaccines.
investment in R&D across Vaccines and Pharmaceuticals.
Selling, general and administration
Tax
Adjusted SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 30.0%,
Tax on Adjusted profit amounted to £1,415 million representing
1.5 percentage points lower at AER than in 2020 and 1.8
an effective Adjusted tax rate of 17.5% (2020 – 16.0%).
percentage points lower on a CER basis. Adjusted SG&A costs
decreased 5% AER, 1% CER which reflected the tight control Non-controlling interests
of ongoing costs and reduced variable spending across all
The allocation of Adjusted earnings to non-controlling interests
three businesses as a result of the COVID-19 lockdowns, and
amounted to £1,006 million (2020 – £1,031 million). The
the continuing benefit of restructuring in Pharmaceuticals,
reduction in allocation primarily reflected a reduced allocation
Consumer Healthcare and support functions. The decrease
of ViiV Healthcare profits of £438 million (2020 – £474 million),
also reflected a favourable legal settlement in 2021 compared
partly offset by higher net profits in some of the Group’s other
to increased legal costs in 2020 as well as one-off benefits in
entities with non-controlling interests. The allocation of
pensions and insurance which were partly offset by the one-off
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture profits was £515 million
benefit from restructuring of post-retirement benefits in 2020.
(2020 – £515 million).
This was partly offset by increased investment behind launches
in HIV and Vaccines. Earnings per share
Adjusted EPS was 113.2p compared with 115.9p in 2020, down
Research and development
2% AER but up 9% CER, on a 9% CER increase in Adjusted
Adjusted R&D expenditure was £4,776 million (14.0% of
operating profit primarily reflecting incremental pandemic sales,
turnover), 4% higher at AER, 8% higher at CER than in 2020.
sales increases in Pharmaceuticals, tight cost control and
Operating profit favourable legal settlements and lower interest costs, partly
offset by lower sales in Vaccines, primarily Shingrix, higher
Adjusted operating profit was £8,806 million, 1% lower than
supply chain costs in Vaccines, increased R&D investment
2020 at AER, but 9% higher at CER on a turnover increase of
and a higher effective tax rate. The contribution to growth from
5% CER. The Adjusted operating margin of 25.8% was 0.3
COVID-19 solutions was approximately 8% AER, 9% CER.
percentage points lower at AER, 0.9 percentage points higher
on a CER basis than in 2020.Our long-term priorities
We put Innovation, Performance and Trust first to realise our ambitions for patients,
shareholders and our people. In 2021 we delivered a strong performance, and we are
on track for a successful demerger to create two new leading companies in 2022.
Innovation Performance Trust
We invest in scientific and technical We deliver growth by investing We are a responsible company.
excellence to develop and launch effectively in our business, We commit to use our science
a pipeline of new products that developing our people and and technology to address health
meet the needs of our patients, executing competitively. needs, make our products
payers and consumers. affordable and available and be
a modern employer.
2021 objectives 2021 objectives 2021 objectives
– Deliver Innovation sales with excellent – Continue to prioritise spending to deliver – Continue to deliver on-time, in-full supply
commercial, R&D and supply chain growth and return on investment of our products
execution in oncology, HIV and vaccines – Continue to deliver two-year programme – Improve manager capability to motivate,
– Accelerate and strengthen pipeline with to prepare GSK for separation into two focus, develop and care for people
robust commercial input, including new leading companies – Continue to deliver progress on Trust
business development – Build a stronger, more diverse workforce commitments
for two new leading companies
Progress Progress Progress
– Received three major approvals in 2021: – Strong commercial execution across – Maintained sector-leading rankings in
Apretude, our long-acting HIV prevention Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer ESG indices, including the Dow Jones
medicine, Jemperli for endometrial cancer Healthcare Sustainability Index, Access to Medicine
and Xevudy, for COVID-19 – Pharmaceuticals £17.7 billion +4% AER, Index and Antimicrobial Resistance
– Strong pipeline of 21 vaccines and 43 +10% CER with double-digit growth in Benchmark
medicines, many of which offer potential new and specialty medicines +20% AER, – Maintained supply and manufacturing
best or first-in-class opportunities for +26% CER without significant disruption throughout
patients and 22 of which are in pivotal trials – Vaccines £6.8 billion -3% AER, +2% CER the pandemic
– 20+ deals executed securing access to – Consumer Healthcare -4% AER, stable – Made further progress to deliver on net zero
novel clinical programmes including with CER; -1% AER, +4% CER excluding impact on climate, and a net positive impact
iTeos in immuno-oncology, Alector in divestments/brands under review on nature by 2030
immuno-neurology and Vir Biotechnology – On track to deliver separation plans in – Rolled out a new training programme to
in flu, plus technologies that expand our mid-2022 develop our managers to support them to
capabilities in human genetics and AI /ML be great managers and lead with care
– Continued to prioritise diversity, with good
progress made against our gender and
ethnicity targets to improve representation
in senior roles
– WHO recommended wider use of our
RTS,S vaccine for children in regions with
moderate to high malaria transmission
2022 priority objectives 2022 priority objectives 2022 priority objectives
– Deliver Innovation sales with excellent – Deliver more than 5% sales growth and – Deliver leading ESG performance and
commercial, R&D and supply chain more than 10% adjusted operating profit on effective risk management with disciplined
execution a compound basis in the next five years compliance
– Further accelerate and strengthen pipeline – Continue to prioritise spending to deliver
with dedicated in-house expertise and growth and return on investment
robust commercial input, including – Deliver a successful demerger in mid-2022
optimised capital allocation and business
development
Culture
As we move towards the creation of two new leading companies, we have been embedding a culture where we are all ambitious for patients, accountable
for impact, and continue to do the right thing. We track our cultural change with a range of indicators, increasingly embedding assessments in HR
processes, and the Board receives regular updates. See pages 99 and 102.
Principal risks
Our risk management framework is designed to support our long-term priorities. See pages 46 and 112.
1 Innovation sales defined on page 12
10 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 11
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our culture
Our culture powers our purpose to get Ahead of disease Together,
drives delivery of our strategy and makes GSK a place where
outstanding people thrive.
Over the past four years, we have focused on embedding a We know that leaders and managers play a crucial role in
culture anchored in purpose and performance. We’ve made bringing culture to life for our people, and we continue to
great progress, demonstrated by strong engagement and pride develop our managers through focused training, to support
in GSK, which has contributed to improved R&D productivity them to be great managers: to motivate their teams, to help
and performance of our commercial teams and in our supply them focus on what matters most, to support their performance
chains. At the same time, the impact of the COVID-19 and development, and to lead with care for everyone as
pandemic has driven our teams to work more dynamically, individuals. We measure the effectiveness of our global
with a deeper connection to our purpose and each other. manager population through annual One80 feedback and
continue to build and refresh the expertise in our senior leaders, GSK’s purpose – to unite science, talent and technology to get
with 14% of our top 115 leaders appointed in 2021. Our
Ahead of disease Together – puts our people at the heart of our
broader HR processes, including reward and succession
success. To deliver on that purpose, and help our outstanding
planning, will continue to be based on assessments of both
people thrive, the focus for our culture is for GSK to be a place
what we deliver and how we do it (ie our cultural behaviours).
where we are all ambitious for patients, accountable for impact,
and do the right thing. Our approach to hybrid working – Performance with Choice –
is anchored in driving individual and collective performance,
This means helping our people to constantly strive to do things
while creating more flexibility for our office-based people in
better and faster, always focused on what matters most. It
how and where they get their work done. This helps them
means setting clear objectives and ensuring accountability for
perform at their best, based on their role, team and personal
results, while giving everyone the support or space they need to
circumstances. As pandemic-related restrictions began to ease
succeed. As ever, this means doing everything responsibly with
in many countries in 2021, all of our office-based people have
care and integrity, because our people, and people around the
either already changed the way they work or started discussing
world, count on us.
it with their manager. In 2021, all of our office-based workers
We measure this progress through a range of indicators, (approximately a quarter of our people) worked some part
looking at how our people experience GSK as a place to of their week from home, and we continually look at ways to
work, how they embody the culture, and how this affects support our people in all role types to balance their work and
our performance. Engagement remains high at 78%, settling personal lives.
back to 2019 levels after a boost during the early phases of
We know that the strongest cultures need to be built from
the pandemic. As part of changes to make our approach to
the top down, the bottom up and from the inside out to be
measuring culture increasingly dynamic, we will augment our
successful. This is why this year we have been bringing people
annual survey with pulse surveys, so that we can more quickly
together from around the world, representing every role type,
identify areas of success and areas of focus. We are a company
business area and region, to help us accelerate the culture
that has respect for people at its core. This gives us an
across the company. We’re ready and excited to continue to
opportunity to build an inclusive culture internally and to be a
make progress on our culture in GSK, so together we can
force for good in improving inclusion and diversity in society.
deliver a step change in competitive growth and build a
We continue to focus on building a more inclusive culture,
successful company that improves the lives of people across
with inclusion training for our people and leaders alongside
the world.
our work to evolve our policies, processes and practices.
Consumer Healthcare culture, see page 43Key performance indicators
To see how we are progressing against our three long-term priorities,
we use ten key performance indicators.
The GSK Leadership Team (GLT) and our Board review our We track all our operating KPIs internally, and below we give
key performance indicators (KPIs) regularly. We also update data for those we report externally. Commercial sensitivities
our people on progress every quarter. We decide our people’s mean we can’t publish data for all operating KPIs (shown as n/r).
bonuses based on relevant subsets of our ten KPIs, which To report our business performance, we use adjusted, non-IFRS
we also use to reward our executives’ performance (see measures, including Adjusted results, free cash flow and CER
pages 120, 129 and 131). growth rates (as described on pages 56 and 59).
Innovation
2021 2020 2019
Innovation sales R
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines – sales of products launched in the last five years £6.8bn1 £4.1bn2 £3.0bn2
Consumer Healthcare – sales from products which are new to a market in the last
three years as a % of total sales 10% 11% 12%
Pipeline value and progress R – the value of products in our pipeline and R&D
milestones achieved n/r n/r n/r
Performance
2021 2020 2019
Group turnover R – flat at AER, 5% CER £34.1bn £34.1bn £33.8bn
Profit R
Total operating profit – down 20% AER, down 9% CER £6.2bn £7.8bn £7.0bn
Adjusted operating profit – down 1% AER, up 9% CER £8.8bn £8.9bn £9.0bn
Total operating margin 18.2% 22.8% 20.6%
Adjusted operating margin 25.8% 26.1% 26.6%
Free cash flow R – down 18% £4.4bn £5.4bn £5.1bn
Market share – our market share in relation to our competitors n/r n/r n/r
Top talent and succession plans for key roles – our most talented employees
in key roles with succession plans in place n/r n/r n/r
Trust
2021 2020 2019
Employee feedback – employee engagement scores from our global employee survey 78% 84% 78%
Supply service level – percentage of orders delivered on-time, in-full n/r n/r n/r
Corporate reputation – reputation index among stakeholders and informed public
measured globally and in top 13 markets n/r n/r n/r
R Linked to Executive LTI awards and annual bonus, see pages 120, 129 and 131
From 2022, Executive LTI awards and annual bonus will be based on a mix of Total sales growth, Adjusted operating profit growth, pipeline and ESG
targets. See pages 122, 124 and 136 to 137
1 2021 includes products that have benefited from significant lifecycle innovation
2 Comparative information reflects sales of those products that meet the definition for 2020
n/r Not reported externally due to commercial sensitivities
12 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 13
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our external environment
The world is changing, shaped by major social and economic trends that
continue to be influenced by the COVID-19 pandemic. While the contribution
of vaccines, medicines and healthcare has been clearly highlighted this year,
challenges remain. We respond to this dynamic environment by working with
governments, regulators and industry partners to deliver innovation to
healthcare systems that demonstrates value to patients and payers.
A reopening of the global economy, driven Outlook for the global healthcare market
by healthcare innovation The pre-pandemic trends in the use of medicines and spending
The events of 2021 gave a clear demonstration of the remain relatively constant. In higher income countries, the
contribution our industry can make to the world. As the adoption of new treatments, offset by patent lifecycles and
pandemic continued, collaborations between companies, competition from generics and biosimilars, is expected to
governments, regulators and international organisations continue as the main driver of medicine spending and growth.
brought new vaccines and medicines to the world in record Global medicine spending totalled $1.4 trillion in 2021 and
time. Regulatory processes got faster and companies invested is expected to grow at 3-6% CAGR through 2026, reaching
in R&D to deliver novel products and expanded manufacturing about $1.8 trillion in total market size, excluding spending on
capacity. The rollout of vaccine programmes enabled the global COVID-19 vaccines. The US market is forecast to grow by
economy to reopen. Later in the year, regulatory approval was 0-3% CAGR over the next five years. Spending in the top five
granted for COVID-19 treatments. GSK contributed to the European markets is expected to increase by $51 billion.
global response, through our agreements with the US, EU China is expected to increase its uptake of new and original
and a number of other governments to supply our COVID-19 medicines (growing by $35 billion by 2026), with spending
therapeutic, Xevudy (sotrovimab), and our ongoing vaccination in emerging markets likely to increase by $128 billion.2 Global
development programmes with Sanofi, Medicago, SK spending on vaccines is predicted to grow at 12-15%, reaching
Bioscience and CureVac. $46 billion in 2025.3
At the same time, the virus continues to take lives, and the It is forecast that by 2026, specialty medicines will account
world is still dealing with the economic and social impact of for nearly 60% of total expenditure in high-income markets,
the pandemic. The worst predictions of prolonged economic with the remainder, predominantly older and traditional
recession have not materialised, with global economic forecasts therapies, becoming progressively lower-cost over time. The
predicting growth of 5.9% in 2021 and 4.9% in 2022, although two leading global therapy areas – oncology and immunology
there is some uncertainty about the uniformity of the recovery, – are forecast to grow 9-12% and 6-9% CAGR respectively
the management of debt, and inflationary trends.1 Similarly, there through to 2026, lifted by significant increases in new
will be continued economic and social threats posed by new treatments and medicine use. It is expected that 100 more
variants such as Omicron. Although global healthcare spending oncology treatments will come to market over five years.2
is expected to rise, there will be competing funding demands
between front-line staff costs, the ongoing need for pandemic Our position
medical products and catch-up programmes to tackle growing Our 2021 performance suggests that we are well positioned
waiting lists. Governments and healthcare systems will have to to capitalise on the forecast growth in specialty medicines.
evaluate the cost of new pharmaceutical innovation and its role in Increased investment for key R&D programmes and expanded
helping to address the burden of illness across all therapy areas. support for new and ongoing launches has resulted in sales
growth driven by strong uptake of new medicines. In 2021,
new and specialty medicines grew by 26% CER and we
recorded double-digit sales growth in immuno-inflammation,
respiratory and oncology. We see these results as very
encouraging and a demonstration of strong progress against
our strategic priorities. These new medicines are at the forefront
of an exciting, high-value pipeline we continue to build across
the prevention and treatment of disease.
1 IMF, World Economic Outlook: Recovery During a Pandemic,
October 2021
2 IQVIA, The Global Use of Medicines 2022, January 2022
3 IQVIA, Global Medicine Spending and Usage Trends Outlook to 2025,
April 2021Our external environment continued
Healthcare environment: opportunities and challenges
US medicines policy
Pricing and access
There were several legislative efforts to address drug pricing
Equal access to healthcare in the US throughout the year and pricing became a focal point
in attempts to pass the $1.75 trillion social safety and climate
For governments, equal access to healthcare is a growing
package (Build Back Better Act) towards the end of the year.5
policy priority. The challenge of bringing COVID-19 vaccines
The drug pricing reform proposals provided for direct
equitably to the global population highlighted the dilemma.
negotiations between the federal government's Medicare
Industry has manufactured and distributed over 11 billion1
Insurance Programme and industry on the price of the ten
vaccine doses, but they have disproportionally gone to high-
costliest drugs for diseases, such as cancer and diabetes, that
income countries. Only 9.6% of people in low-income countries
only have one supplier, with new prices taking effect in 2025.
have received at least one dose.2 Governments attempt to
The measures sought to address out-of-pocket expenditures
balance immediate access for their respective populations
for seniors by capping spending at $2,000 per person per year.
with global health responsibilities.
Companies that raised the price of medicines above inflation for
Though global initiatives such as COVAX have helped with parts B and D of Medicare would be penalised. The inflation cap
access to vaccines, the disparity led some governments and would also apply to private insurance markets.
international organisations to question intellectual property (IP)
Though the out-of-pocket measures should improve affordability
frameworks, most notably the World Trade Organization’s
for seniors, the industry is concerned that, taken together, the
agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property
package could reduce patient choice and limit access to
Rights (TRIPS) waiver provisions. However, there is concern
innovation in the future. With no agreement reached on the exact
that any moves to alter IP protections won’t address the
terms of the Build Back Better Act by the year end, the extent
problem and could destabilise innovation within life sciences.
and effect of the drug reform package remained unclear.
In turn, this could threaten future collaborations like the ones
that were so important in creating the vaccines and treatments
European pharmaceutical reform
used to tackle this pandemic.
In Europe, there continues to be considerable scrutiny of
The need to demonstrate the value of innovation to public
drug pricing and a growing trend towards the centralised
and private healthcare payers is growing. Expenditure on
procurement of vaccines and medicines. A wide-ranging review
pharmaceuticals is heavily scrutinised, with renewed calls
of EU pharmaceutical legislation began as part of the EU’s
for transparency in price setting. However, there has been
pharmaceutical strategy. The strategy is based on four pillars,
significant moderation of pharmaceutical expenditure over
covering access, competitiveness and innovation, crisis
the last decade. Across 11 major markets surveyed by IQVIA,
preparedness and a strong EU voice in the world. The review
medicines’ expenditure represents only 15% of total healthcare
is also looking at improved regulatory procedures and the
spending and has remained relatively flat even though reliance
vulnerability of supply of medicines.
on pharmaceuticals has increased.3
Last year, the European Commission centralised the
Continued genericisation of medicines across therapeutic
procurement of COVID-19 vaccines on behalf of member
classes, including cancer, and the increased use of biosimilars
states and in 2021 it concluded a joint procurement agreement
is continually improving affordability and access. However, the
to purchase monoclonal antibodies.
outlook will continue to be challenging and the demand for data
and real-world evidence to support continued reimbursement Beyond Europe, many countries are implementing various
of new products is likely to increase. We will work with payers reforms ranging from regulatory pathways to cost containment.
to design innovative solutions that manage their risk and In China, the government has committed to accelerating patient
uncertainty. access to health insurance cover and innovative medicines.
China completed an update to its national reimbursement drug
There is also likely to be a greater emphasis on health resilience
list (NRDL) in 2021 and will add new high-value medicines in
and the role that preventative care can play in improving
the future. However, access to the NRDL can result in price
health outcomes. Health protection interventions, including
reductions – on average, 61% in 2019, 51% in 2020 and 62%
immunisation, represent significant value in terms of return on
in 2021.6
investment (this is estimated to be £34 for every pound spent
in the UK).4 Our position
We aim to bring our new medicines, vaccines and consumer
healthcare products to patients across the world, no matter
where they live. We have an industry-leading track record on
1 World Economic Forum, From zero COVID-19 vaccines to 11.2 billion this, as shown by our continued top ranking in the Access to
in a year, 4 January 2022
Medicine Index. We are working to ensure that as medicines
2 Our World in Data, Coronavirus Vaccinations, as at 19 January 2022
become more specialised, we maintain our commitment to
3 IQVIA, Drug Expenditure Dynamics 1995-2020, October 2021
access. We will do this by making our products widely available
4 ABPI, Economic and Societal Impacts of Vaccination, 2020
at responsible prices that are sustainable for our business.
5 H.R.5376 - Build Back Better Act, 117th Congress, 2021-2022
6 PharmaExec.com, China 2021: The NRDL Readout, January 2022
14 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 15
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our external environment continued
Getting the balance right between responsible pricing Across regions, major regulatory initiatives have been
and sustainable business is fundamental to our Innovation, announced, including in the UK, China, US and Europe. In the
Performance and Trust priorities. When setting prices for our US, negotiations between the industry and the Food and Drug
medicines in mature markets, we use a value-based approach Administration (FDA) about the Prescription Drug User Fee Act
that balances reward for innovation with access and affordability (PDUFA) VII have concluded. Potential regulatory innovations
(see page 36). We aim to provide truly differentiated, innovative covered in the resulting commitment letter are moving on to
products that offer effective health outcomes for patients and the legislative process. In the EU, the industry continues to
payers, so that all products deliver value. prepare for the European Commission’s revision of general
pharmaceutical legislation. The industry is also working with the
For more on pricing see our ESG Performance Report
UK’s Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency
(MHRA), which is establishing new and enhanced partnerships
Regulatory environment
with regulators outside the EU. Following Brexit, there are still
significant regulatory challenges around implementation of the
Growing flexibility and cooperation
Northern Ireland Protocol. The industry continues to engage
Despite the obstacles posed by the pandemic, regulators with both UK and EU agencies to resolve these.
and the industry continue to prioritise the supply of essential
vaccines and medicines, while also accelerating the Our position
development of new products. New regulatory approaches
GSK closely monitors and engages, where relevant and
have facilitated innovation, particularly in digital healthcare,
appropriate, to improve regulation. This happens mainly in
cell and gene therapies, complex clinical trials, big data and
the UK, Europe, US, China and Japan.
real-world evidence.
For example, scientific innovation is moving beyond the scope
Regulators have worked in close cooperation with industry,
of current regulation and standards, and we continue to learn
often across regulatory jurisdictions, through supranational
from our experience with COVID-19. Working with our peers,
bodies, such as the International Coalition of Medicines
we are engaging with governments to create a balanced
Regulatory Authorities. There is the potential for the permanent
regulatory framework that supports the discovery and delivery
adoption of regulatory adaptations that support the development
of vaccines and medicines developed through emerging
and approval of a broader range of new vaccines and medicines.
technologies and techniques.
There is also an opportunity to simplify regulatory processes.
Global environment: opportunities and challenges
Advances in science and technology will help us respond to
Changing needs
the growing demand for healthcare created by changing
Ageing populations are increasing global demand for preventive demographics, greater patient control and the demand for
and therapeutic health solutions, and changing the way digital health.
healthcare is delivered worldwide. The acceleration of digital
health and telemedicine have revolutionised the delivery of Our position
healthcare over the last two years as patients increasingly Changing demographics will contribute to rising demand for
managed their own healthcare at home. The global digital health healthcare, which we can respond to with our diverse portfolio
market is expected to reach $484 billion in 2025 at a CAGR spanning infectious diseases, HIV, oncology, immunology and
of 25%.1 Patients are becoming more engaged with their respiratory disease. We aim to positively impact the health of
healthcare, and companies are adopting more ‘patient-centric’ over 2.5 billion people over the next ten years with our products.
approaches, focused on patient outcomes, patient satisfaction In line with our Innovation priority, we are investing in a pipeline
and user experience. of vaccines and specialty medicines that will meet changing
Predictions suggest the global population will grow to 8.5 billion healthcare needs. We believe that new technologies will enable
by 2030 (from 7.7 billion, 2019), despite the pandemic the earlier identification of diseases and we will develop
decreasing life expectancy in some countries in 2020-21. The precision medicines that will target treatments to groups of
number of over-65-year-olds is set to double between 2019 patients most likely to benefit. In vaccines, technological
and 2050.2 More people are living in cities, becoming affluent innovation is allowing us to address unmet medical needs
and living to an advanced age. This is particularly true in China, across all age groups.
which is experiencing the world’s fastest-ever expansion of the
middle class, with projections that 1.2 billion people will be
middle class by 2027.3
1 D igital Health Global Market Report 2021 – COVID 19 Growth and
Change, Research and Markets, March 2021
2 United Nations, World Population Prospects 2019 (Revised), 2019
3 Brookings, China’s influence on the global middle class, Homi Kharas
and Meagan Dooley, October 2020Our external environment continued
Climate change in focus
Advances in science and technology
Recent political and economic challenges may have slowed
We are at an exciting time in medical discovery, fuelled by
progress on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals but the
the genetic revolution of the last decade combined with the
need for action remains urgent. A top priority is addressing
expansion of (patient-driven) healthcare data and advanced
environmental issues. Extreme weather events, new scientific
technology like artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML).
data on climate change and civic activism have rapidly advanced
Advances in functional genomics, such as CRISPR gene
the case for sustainable energy solutions and stronger
editing, have already started to redefine what is possible in
protections for the natural world and biodiversity. The Glasgow
drug discovery, allowing researchers to unravel the mysteries
COP26 summit was the 2021 focal point for international
of biology and help pinpoint novel drug targets with a higher
climate change solutions. It led to the Glasgow Climate Pact,
probability of success. This is driving a phenomenon we call the
which includes new emissions pledges that, if fulfilled, will limit
‘digitisation of biology’, which allows scientists to explore human
global warming to about 2.4 degrees above pre-industrial levels.1
biology in a way never possible before. It holds much promise
For the first time at COP a plan was also set out for reducing
for treating diseases previously out of reach, and requires AI
global use of coal – responsible for 40% of annual CO
2
and machine learning.
emissions.2
Researchers, regulators and payers are also exploring how
these technologies can help improve clinical trials and generate Recognising good ESG management
better insights on product effectiveness – and even new Societal expectations of business continue to increase, with
combinations of products – to improve health. businesses expected to play their part in addressing some
of the biggest challenges facing society. The international
Rapid advances in science and technology are fundamentally
investment community is responding to this context by placing
changing life sciences R&D. The pandemic has accelerated
higher value on businesses that actively manage ESG risks
vaccine innovation, including mRNA technology. This enables
and opportunities. These businesses are seen to offer a better
the body’s own cells to produce specific proteins, or antigens,
foundation for long-term, sustainable growth; with good
so the immune system can prevent or fight infectious disease.
environmental stewardship and climate risk mitigation planning
Our position becoming a priority for investors.
We are at the forefront of advances in science and technology,
Our position
working to create innovative solutions to all kinds of healthcare
Trust is essential to how we deliver on our purpose and create
challenges.
long-term value for both shareholders and society. We have 13
Advanced technology platforms – These are central to
commitments that support our Trust priority and we are deeply
our R&D approach. We have expertise in AI and functional
committed to addressing the issues that matter, including
genomics. Our dedicated global in-house AI team is using
pricing and access, global health, the environment, and
machine learning to unlock the potential of complex genetic
inclusion and diversity.
data with never-before-seen levels of speed, precision and
During 2021, we made good progress across many of these
scale. (See page 18 for more details).
areas. We retain a sector-leading position in the Dow Jones
Vaccines – We use diverse platform technologies from
Sustainability Index. Our leading work in improving global health
adjuvants that improve vaccine effectiveness through to mRNA
and tackling antimicrobial resistance was recognised by the
technology. These are at the heart of our pipeline differentiation.
Access to Medicine Foundation through top rankings in their
Collaborations – We’re partnering with teams from the cutting Access to Medicine Index and AMR benchmark. The WHO
edge of fields within and outside pharmaceuticals and vaccines recommended our malaria vaccine for wider use in children in
to help steer new science and develop therapeutics. (See pages regions with moderate to high malaria transmission. We
17 to 27 for more details). launched new aspirational gender and ethnic diversity targets,
to increase representation at senior levels, alongside a review
of recruitment processes at all levels to make sure we are
Responsible business
reaching and attracting diverse candidates. And we made
Society’s expectations of businesses remain high. Companies strong progress on our 2030 climate and nature goals,
across all sectors face increased scrutiny on the social and including large-scale renewable energy investments at two
environmental impacts of their operations. At the same time, major manufacturing sites, joining a coalition to curb
long-term socio-economic trends continue to drive down trust deforestation, and investing in R&D to cut greenhouse gas
in business. Organisations must meet expectations on how emissions from our metered dose inhalers by up to 90%
they engage with – and benefit – society, the economy and the (see page 39).
environment. Companies are partnering with policymakers and
non-profit organisations on finding new collaborative solutions
to complex long-term issues, such as climate change and global
health inequalities.
1 Lewis S & Maslin M, Five things you need to know about the Glasgow
Climate Pact, World Economic Forum, 15 November 2020
2 Ritchie H and Roser M, CO2 emissions by fuel, Our World in Data, Last
accessed 19 January 2022
16 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 17
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Innovation
Innovation is at the core of what we do. In 2021, we continued to
strengthen our pipeline of vaccines and medicines, apply our growing
expertise and partnerships in technology and data, and increase the
productivity of our R&D. It has been a year of new launches, regulatory
approvals and important clinical studies, turning our expertise into
transformational vaccines and medicines for patients.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines highlights
– Strong pipeline of 21 vaccines and 43 medicines, many – Approval for Jemperli, as a treatment for endometrial
with the potential to be first or best-in-class opportunities cancer and certain solid tumours
for patients, 22 of which are in pivotal trials – Positive phase III data for daprodustat for patients with
– Approval in the US for Apretude, our long-acting HIV anaemia of chronic kidney disease
preventative therapy – 20+ deals executed securing access to five novel clinical
– Xevudy (sotrovimab), our monoclonal antibody treatment assets
for COVID-19, approved or authorised for conditional/ – Approximately 70% of our targets in research are
temporary use in the US, UK, EU and over 12 other genetically validated, and published scientific research
countries shows that genetically validated targets are at least twice
as likely to become medicines
Innovation is at the heart of achieving our purpose – to unite We prioritise research into vaccines and medicines across our
science, talent and technology to get Ahead of disease four therapeutic areas of infectious diseases, HIV, oncology,
Together. It’s by discovering and developing new vaccines and immunology including respiratory. We also remain open to
and medicines that we help patients and make a large-scale, opportunities outside these core areas where the science aligns
positive impact on human health through prevention and with our strategic approach.
treatment of disease.
Our pipeline consists of 64 potential vaccines and medicines
R&D is the core of our innovation. In 2021, we invested £5.3 with more than 70% that modulate the immune system. In 2021,
billion in R&D – 3.5% AER more than 2020 – to enhance our we moved 19 assets into phase I or phase II trials.
pipeline of vaccines and medicines. Through our own work,
and partnerships with other businesses and academia, we Speeding up the pace of discovery and
currently have 21 vaccines and 43 medicines in development. development
Many have the potential to be first or best-in-class. In all we do, The productivity of our R&D is increasing. Since 2017,
we encourage our teams to pursue bold research, backed by we’ve doubled the number of assets in phase III of clinical
data and science and underpinned by clear accountability. development to 22 and cut overall cycle times across
We have streamlined our R&D governance to allow us to development by 20%. In addition, in 2022 we anticipate
keep up this pace. In 2021, we switched from separate clinical milestones on up to 7 of the 11 potential new vaccines and
development organisations for vaccines and medicines to a medicines identified as key future growth drivers, including
single combined organisation. This will help us make sure we Apretude which was approved at the end of 2021 and
invest in the programmes with the biggest impact for patients our respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine candidate for
and unlock scientific synergies across prevention and treatment. older adults.
This growing pace helps us make a difference to more
Our approach to R&D
people’s lives. For instance, Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin),
To deliver transformational vaccines and medicines, our R&D a treatment for multiple myeloma, gained regulatory approval
approach is to focus on the science of the immune system, just two years after the start of its first pivotal study. And our
human genetics and advanced technologies, such as artificial COVID-19 treatment, sotrovimab, achieved emergency use
intelligence and machine learning. authorisation from the FDA just 13 months after our partnership
with Vir Biotechnology began in April 2020, when the molecule
was still in preclinical phase.Innovation continued
Leading progress – Our shingles vaccine, Shingrix, which was approved for wider
We’ve had 13 major new vaccines and medicines approved use in several markets including the US and Canada.
since 2017. This puts us in the top quartile in our industry. For – Expansion of our clinical trial programme for Zejula into new
2018-20, we had a greater than 90% success rate for our indications such as breast and lung cancer.
pivotal studies, compared to 77% across the industry. Our – The contribution of Trelegy Ellipta to respiratory disease and
2017-20 number of launches per billion dollars of R&D lung health continues to evolve. Trelegy has expanded the
spending was over 50% better than peer median.
indicated use from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD) to include asthma in the US.
Lifecycle innovation
As well as developing new treatments, we look for innovation Strategic partnerships – joining forces to make
across the lifecycle of our existing vaccines and medicines by progress
finding new ways for them to help patients, either on their own Through strategic partnerships and business development,
or combined with other therapies. Since 2017, we have we join forces with commercial and academic partners to open
increased the number of lifecycle projects per asset by 50%. up new avenues of discovery or advance the development of
Examples are: new potential medicines. In 2021 alone, we announced more
– Benlysta for the treatment of both systemic lupus than 20 partnerships and collaborations that provided us
erythematosus and lupus nephritis. access to five novel clinical assets, including with iTeos in
immuno-oncology, Alector in immuno-neurology and Vir
– Nucala, our anti IL-5 biologic, which is now also approved
Biotechnology in flu. We have also invested in technologies
in the US and Europe for severe eosinophilic asthma,
that expand our capabilities in human genetics and artificial
hypereosinophilic syndrome, eosinophilic granulomatosis
intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML).
and polyangitis and chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps.
Genetics, genomics and technology
The success of our R&D rests not just on finding new At GSK we partner with the world's best minds and leading
treatments, but on getting better at how we find them. The institutions in these areas. We are also investing in our own
key to that is combining genetics, genomics and advanced capabilities including our London AI hub, which is using
technologies. biomedical information, AI/ML and computing platforms to
unlock new insights from our genetic and clinical data.
To fulfil our purpose to get Ahead of disease Together, we
prioritise genetically validated targets to increase our probability With these capabilities we have found new potential
of successfully delivering an approved vaccine or medicine. combinations for existing therapies, such as Blenrep in
Approximately 70% of our targets in research are genetically combination with a gamma secretase inhibitor, which could
validated and published scientific research shows that allow for greater patient benefit.
genetically validated targets are at least twice as likely
to become medicines. We’re now able to harness advanced Forming the right partnerships in genetics
technologies to convert insights from human genetics and and genomics
genomics to improve the probability of success for R&D. Our collaboration with consumer genetics and research
company 23andMe has yielded more than 40 novel research
Making better predictions to help patients
programmes, one of which is now in phase I for the treatment
The last decade has seen a revolution in genetic data and of cancer. We’ve also worked with the UK Biobank since its
genomics. AI and machine learning help us find patterns in founding and have joined the UK’s most recent bioresource,
data on a larger scale and far more quickly than before. This Our Future Health. Additionally, we are supporting newer
is leading to the ‘digitisation of biology’ and is allowing us to datasets that feature diverse populations, such as the Genes
better understand the root cause of many diseases. and Health Consortium in East London and the Black
Representation in Genetic Research Study with 23andMe.
In late 2021, we announced a five-year collaboration with the
University of Oxford which will focus on neurodegenerative
diseases. The new Institute will leverage advanced technologies
to build on insights from human genetics to accelerate the most
promising areas for drug discovery.
18 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 19
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Innovation continued
In genomics, our partners include the world’s preeminent Extensive vaccine platform technologies
experts: the Broad Institute in Boston and the Laboratory Our work in vaccine platform technologies, with the broadest
for Genomics Research (LGR), which we established with portfolio in the industry, enables us to select the most
the University of California in 2019. They’re helping us find promising technology approach (or combinations of different
genetically validated drug targets by investigating areas platform technologies) to develop new vaccines previously
including genetic variations and their consequences for the not thought possible. Platform technologies such as adjuvants,
function of cells. Working with the pioneers of CRISPR bioconjugation, generalised modules for membrane antigen
technology at LGR, we’re uncovering new knowledge about (GMMA) and adenovirus vectors can be used to make vaccines
disease mechanisms for immunology, oncology and neurology against a range of different pathogens and allow for a tailored
in 12 different programmes. Meanwhile, our work with UK approach to deliver success. This includes mRNA, a key focus
biotech Adrestia is leveraging a new area called synthetic area for our development as we see it as a critical platform
viability to find novel drug targets in hard to treat diseases like technology and major opportunity for the future of vaccines.
frontotemporal dementia (FTD). We’re investing in it significantly, including through our
We are also funding PhD studentships at multiple universities collaboration with CureVac and by building on our in-house
and institutes, including the Crick Institute, the University of end-to-end mRNA development and manufacturing capabilities.
Adelaide in Australia and University of Oxford, Stanford We are focusing our efforts on modified and non-modified
University, Cambridge’s Centre for AI and Medicine, and mRNA technologies optimised for high protein expression to
Warwick University. This will help make sure we have sustained improve mRNA potency and tolerability.
talent pools and the right skills in the coming years.
Digitisation, machine learning and AI are helping us speed
Using AI/ML to build scale and speed up the vaccine research and manufacturing process. In 2021,
we announced a successful proof of concept of a digital twin
In 2021, we started a new partnership with King’s College
approach for vaccine manufacturing with Siemens and Atos.
London using AI/ML to understand why some patients respond
The digital twin uses machine learning and modelling to provide
to cancer treatment, while disease progresses in others. The
new insights for optimising the development and manufacturing
technology will tell us more about the role of tumour genetics,
of vaccines.
the tumour microenvironment and response to therapies. In
addition, the technology will aid the creation of tools to help
make better clinical decisions for personalised treatment.
NVIDIA’s Cambridge-2 supercomputer is performing a similar
role for us in immuno-oncology by fusing different datasets
and building large-scale models to help us determine the best
treatment for patients. And the largest ever chip processor
for AI, built by Silicon Valley start-up Cerebras, is helping us
construct larger-scale genetic models that learn from DNA
to help deconstruct how genes operate in different disease
contexts.
Infectious diseases
The world faces a persistent threat from infectious In 2021, we moved multiple vaccine candidates into clinical
diseases that not only claim lives but also put strain on trials. They include a meningitis ABCWY second generation
healthcare systems. Almost half the vaccines and vaccine and vaccine candidates for Klebsiella pneumoniae,
medicines in our pipeline address infectious diseases. cytomegalovirus (CMV) and new strains of varicella
(chickenpox). Our latest trials also include protein-based,
We are targeting several new launches by 2026, including our
adjuvanted COVID-19 vaccines, which we are developing
vaccine candidate for RSV in older adults, and gepotidacin, an
in collaboration with other companies.
antibiotic to treat uncomplicated urinary tract infections (uUTI).
Both have the potential to be first and best-in-class. We also
aim to complete five proof of concept studies for new vaccine
candidates by 2023. Those that successfully demonstrate proof
of concept will be ready to move to registrational clinical trials.Innovation continued
Our combined expertise in vaccines and medicines means RSV
we are uniquely positioned to focus on connections between Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) is a very common virus and
treatment and prevention. Examples include: a leading cause of acute respiratory infections. In older adults,
– COVID-19, for which we are working on both treatments RSV can exacerbate underlying conditions and lead to
and vaccines pneumonia. It causes 360,000 hospitalisations and 24,000
deaths in over-60s each year in high-income countries, yet
– RSV and respiratory conditions, through our efforts to
remains one of the major infectious diseases without a vaccine.
develop RSV vaccines for the populations most at risk,
RSV is the leading cause of severe respiratory infections in
as well as to develop future respiratory medicines
infants and causes more hospitalisations than influenza in this
– Hepatitis B, through our antisense oligonucleotide and
vulnerable group.
vaccine technologies in development
Our programme to help prevent RSV consists of two candidate
– Influenza, for which we are developing vaccines and
vaccines, the most advanced of which is being tested in adults
antibodies
aged 60 years and over. It uses a recombinant pre-fusion F
The close collaboration in R&D across our research areas antigen combined with our AS01 adjuvant. The AS01 adjuvant
helps us innovate in areas where multiple tools might be is a key ingredient in Shingrix and boosts the immune response,
required, such as antimicrobial resistance (AMR) or pandemic helping to overcome the challenges associated with protecting
response. By drawing on the crossovers between our work in older people. We anticipate phase III data on this candidate
vaccines and pharmaceuticals we enhance our ability to vaccine in the first half of 2022. We stopped enrolment and
develop innovative solutions to meet patient needs. vaccination in trials of our RSV maternal candidate vaccine in
February 2022 following feedback from the Independent Data
Shingles
Monitoring Committee (IDMC). Further analysis to better
Around one in three people will develop shingles in their lifetime. understand safety data from these trials is ongoing.
In 2017, our Shingrix vaccine signalled a step change in
We have stopped developing a phase II RSV paediatric
preventing this painful and potentially serious illness. It’s the first
candidate vaccine based on an adenovirus vector, which was
non-live shingles vaccine, and it combines a specific subunit
not using the pre-fusion F antigen, because it was unlikely to
antigen with an adjuvant to sustain the immune response.
meet our efficacy target. We are currently investigating new
In 2021, we continued to expand access to Shingrix. We technologies to address this important medical need.
launched it in nine new markets: Australia, Singapore, Hong
Kong & Macau, Italy, Spain, Denmark, Finland, Austria and the Meningitis
UK. Switzerland followed in early 2022. About 1.2 million people develop invasive meningococcal
Regulators in the US, Canada, Australia, Hong Kong and disease (IMD) every year, with infants, young children and
Singapore also extended the indication for the vaccine to adults adolescents particularly vulnerable. Even with early diagnosis
18 years and older at increased risk. Shingrix is the first shingles and adequate treatment, 5% to 10% of patients with bacterial
vaccine indicated for this expanded use. meningitis die, often within 24 to 48 hours of symptoms starting.
Left untreated, meningitis is fatal in up to 50% of cases and can
We also achieved regulatory approvals for the vaccine in South
cause brain damage, hearing loss or disability in 10% to 20% of
Korea, Brazil, Switzerland and Taiwan, including for the 18+ at
survivors.
increased risk population. We gained new recommendations for
the vaccine in Italy, Spain, Australia and Switzerland. We are a leader in IMD protection, with over ten million patients
vaccinated in 2021 alone. Bexsero, our meningitis B vaccine,
In addition, the US’s National Comprehensive Cancer Network
and Menveo, our meningitis ACWY vaccine, together help
(NCCN) Survivorship Guidelines were updated to preferentially
protect against most IMD cases.
recommend Shingrix for cancer survivors aged 50 years and
older, and the NCCN Guidelines on the Prevention and In 2021, GSK filed a submission to the FDA for a fully liquid
Treatment of Cancer-Related Infections were updated with version of Menveo. This would simplify administration of the
Shingrix recommendations for autologous hematopoietic cell vaccine by healthcare providers.
transplantation (HCT), multiple myeloma and lymphoma We are developing two MenABCWY pentavalent (5-in-1)
patients. The Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung vaccines, which would mean just one vaccine, rather than two,
Disease (GOLD) guidelines were also updated to recommend could be used to help protect against all five major disease-
shingles vaccination to protect against shingles in adults with causing serogroups. The first generation MenABCWY vaccine
COPD aged 50 years and older. candidate is in phase III clinical trials and was created by
combining the technologies we have used to develop our
existing Bexsero and Menveo vaccines. In 2021, we also started
a phase I/II trial of a second generation pentavalent candidate
for broader age indications and strains.
20 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 21
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Innovation continued
COVID-19 Following positive phase II data, our vaccine collaboration
Globally, more than 400 million cases of COVID-19 have been with Sanofi began phase III trials in May 2021, in parallel with
recorded since the outbreak emerged, resulting in the deaths of a programme of booster studies. In December 2021 we
over five and a half million people. With our partners, we have announced positive preliminary results showing that a single
been developing treatments as well as several vaccines. booster dose of the adjuvanted recombinant protein-based
COVID-19 vaccine candidate delivered consistently strong
Treatment – harnessing monoclonal antibodies
immune responses across all primary vaccines received.
Alongside vaccines, effective treatments are critical to support
And, in February 2022, we announced our intention to submit
patients and communities through the next phases of the
applications for regulatory approval of the vaccine in the US
pandemic. Some COVID-19 patients are at a higher risk of
and Europe following the positive read outs of both the booster
hospitalisation and death due to risk factors such as old age
and primary phase III trials with this vaccine candidate.
or comorbidities. For these patients, it will remain important to
have access to early, effective treatment options including In December 2021 we reported positive phase III data for
monoclonal antibodies. the adjuvanted plant-based vaccine we are developing with
Medicago, building on positive phase II results announced
Through our collaboration with Vir Biotechnology, which began
earlier in the year. Based on these data, the vaccine, Covifenz,
in 2020, we developed Xevudy (sotrovimab) – a SARS-CoV-2
was approved in Canada in February 2022.
monoclonal antibody that works to prevent the virus from
entering and infecting healthy cells within the body. In the first A third vaccine using our adjuvant technology is in development
half of 2021, GSK and Vir announced results from COMET- with SK Bioscience. If successful, we intend to distribute this
ICE, a phase III trial that investigated intravenous (IV) infusion vaccine globally through the COVAX facility. The GPB510
of sotrovimab in adults with mild or moderate COVID-19 at high vaccine, a self-assembled nanoparticle vaccine targeting the
risk of progression to severe disease. receptor-binding domain of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein,
started phase III trials in August 2021.
Sotrovimab is authorised for emergency use in the US and,
under the brand name Xevudy, has been granted a marketing We are also developing second generation mRNA COVID-19
authorisation in the EU. It has conditional or provisional marketing vaccine candidates using modified and non-modified RNA
authorisations in Great Britain, Switzerland, Australia and Saudi vaccine technologies as part of our collaboration with CureVac.
Arabia. It has also been approved via Japan’s Special Approval In August and November 2021 we announced encouraging
for Emergency Pathway. Temporary authorisations for sotrovimab results from a range of pre-clinical studies.
have also been granted in several other countries.
Other infectious diseases
Sotrovimab binds specifically to a region of the spike protein
Diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis
that is less likely to change, increasing the potential that it may
In Europe, healthcare providers can now give Boostrix,
remain effective against variants that emerge over time. Data
our combination tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis vaccine,
from preclinical in vitro studies demonstrate that sotrovimab
together with one additional vaccine such as Shingrix, or
retains activity against all tested variants of concern and interest
an unadjuvanted or inactivated seasonal influenza vaccine.
to date, including Delta and Omicron.
This will save patients multiple vaccination visits and make
Along with Vir, we are continuing to progress the clinical healthcare more efficient.
development programme for sotrovimab and are exploring
Chronic hepatitis B
more convenient methods of administration. In November,
Over 300 million people suffer from chronic hepatitis B, and
we received positive results from the COMET-TAIL trial
each year around 887,000 die from the decompensated
investigating the intramuscular (IM) route of administration
cirrhosis or liver cancer it can cause.
of sotrovimab as an early treatment for mild-to-moderate
COVID-19 in high-risk, non-hospitalised adults and Our candidate vaccine, currently in phase I/II, is a targeted
paediatric patients (12 and over). Knowing that the greatest immunotherapy combining different technologies, including our
need for effective prophylactic treatments is likely to come adjuvant AS01 also used in Shingrix and in our RSV candidate
from immuno-compromised people, GSK and Vir are also vaccine for older adults. It aims to activate functional virus-
supporting clinical studies specific to this population. specific T-cell and B-cell responses and restore immune
competence against hepatitis B virus (HBV). This immune
COVID-19 vaccines – using technology to boost
restoration could lead to a functional cure of chronic hepatitis B,
immune response
which is defined as controlling the virus without eradicating it
We are working with several companies on COVID-19 vaccines
from the body. A functional cure could reduce the risk of
using our proprietary adjuvant technology. Adjuvants can make
long-term complications of chronic hepatitis B infection, liver
vaccines more effective by boosting and extending the body’s
inflammation and cancer. We expect proof of concept data in
immune response. They also make it possible to produce more
2023.
doses with less antigen, enabling the production of more
vaccine doses to address global needs.Innovation continued
We are also developing bepirovirsen, an HBV antisense In the US, Clostridium difficile causes more than 200,000
oligonucleotide, which has the potential to be a first-in-class cases in hospital patients and leads to around 12,800 deaths
functional cure for chronic HBV and is designed to restore every year. In 2021, we progressed the phase I first-time-in-
the immune system’s natural ability to eliminate infected liver human study of our candidate vaccine against this pathogen.
cells and provide long-term control of HBV. Our phase IIa
Klebsiella pneumoniae can cause severe infections in the lungs,
programme demonstrated that bepirovirsen can reduce
bladder, brain, liver, eyes and blood, as well as types of
hepatitis B surface antigen after four weeks of treatment.
meningitis. There is no approved vaccine, and resistance to
We anticipate data from our ongoing phase IIb programme
many treatments is growing.
in 2022.
Our candidate vaccine, developed with LimmaTech, started
Cytomegalovirus
clinical development in July 2021. If it succeeds, it could help
CMV is a serious health risk for babies. Most infants with
prevent most Klebsiella-associated infections in people who
congenital CMV are asymptomatic at birth but still at risk of
are at highest risk, including older people with underlying
long-term health problems, including hearing and sight loss,
conditions like diabetes, kidney disease or chronic liver disease.
delayed development and seizures. In the US, CMV is the
The vaccine is a tetravalent bioconjugate including O-antigen
leading infectious cause of birth defects. About one in 200
to target the serogroup causing most infections. We combine
babies is born with congenital CMV infection, and about one
the antigens with our proprietary adjuvant system, which
in five of those will have long-term health problems.
has shown, with vaccines like Shingrix, that it can help
There’s currently no approved vaccine, but we are working to provide strong immune responses in people of all ages
change that with an adjuvanted subunit vaccine that entered including older adults.
phase I/II trials in 2021.
Shigella causes over 200,000 deaths every year and is the
second leading cause of diarrheal death globally after rotavirus.
Antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance
There is currently no widely available licensed vaccines to
Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is an urgent threat to public protect against Shigella; and the related threat of growing
health. By undermining the effectiveness of antibiotics, it anti-microbial resistance is a significant issue.
currently contributes to 700,000 deaths every year globally,
We started a phase I trial of a quadrivalent Shigella vaccine
a figure that is expected to increase significantly unless action
candidate based on our innovative GMMA technology. This is a
is taken. We’re focusing on organisms with the highest risk of
unique approach to creating bacterial vaccines by replicating
developing AMR as characterised by the Centers for Disease
the surface characteristics of the bacteria through membrane
Control and Prevention (CDC) and World Health Organization
vesicles.
(WHO).
Medicines – developing new mechanisms Early science and additional collaborations
We are developing gepotidacin, a novel mechanism
Our partnerships in infectious diseases include our work with
topoisomerase inhibitor, for uncomplicated urinary tract
CureVac on mRNA vaccines, not only against COVID-19, but
infections (uUTI) and gonorrhea, in partnership with the
also five additional targets including seasonal and universal flu.
Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority
Building our understanding of the microbiome in chronic
(BARDA) in the US. This is the first time a new oral antibiotic
diseases
has addressed these infections in over 20 years. Gepotidacin
is currently in phase III. We have developed collaborations with two companies to
generate scientific insights and turn them into innovation in
Vaccines – targeting resistant pathogens
microbiome engineering and optimisation for new therapies.
We are using new scientific insights and technologies, including
adjuvants, mRNA, bioconjugation and generalised modules for In October 2021, we expanded a collaboration with Viome
membrane antigens (GMMA) to target pathogens that create a Life Sciences that started in 2019, investigating the role of the
significant health burden and are likely to develop antibiotic microbiome in chronic diseases. It combines our expertise in
resistance. immunology with Viome’s mRNA analysis and AI platforms to
give us new insights into chronic diseases, cancers and ageing.
We have four vaccines in clinical trials, against Staphylococcus
aureus, Clostridium difficile, Shigella and Klebsiella. We also We aim to generate data on how pathogens cause or
have other programmes that could have a major impact by exacerbate chronic diseases, including autoimmune
reducing cases of diseases directly or indirectly contributing inflammatory conditions and immuno-oncology. This will help
to AMR, including RSV and tuberculosis. us build a predictive model to tell us more about targets for
therapies that build on vaccine technology to prevent and even
Staphylococcus aureus is often resistant to antibiotics, with
reverse chronic diseases.
multiple drug-resistant strains already in circulation. In the US,
methicillin-resistant strains cause more than 300,000 cases in With Eligo Biosciences, we are focusing on developing
hospital patients, and an estimated 10,600 deaths. In 2021, ways to treat acne. This means using Eligo’s CRISPR and
our candidate vaccine to prevent primary and recurring soft bacteriophage technology to remove unwanted bacteria while
skin tissue infections from this pathogen entered phase II. leaving beneficial bacteria intact.
22 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 23
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Innovation continued
HIV
HIV is an urgent global health threat with 1.5 million new We have a robust and industry-leading clinical trial programme
cases each year, including 38,000 new cases in the US that is driving confidence in two-drug regimens. Our goal is to
and 22,000 new cases in the EU. However, of the 38 million make Dovato the most successful dolutegravir-based regimen
people living with HIV, 55% of the world’s cases, over 20 because it has fewer reactions to drugs and reduces exposure
million people, come from sub-Saharan Africa.1 to antiretrovirals. We now have more than three years of efficacy
and safety data for Dovato which sets the bar very high for
Our work in HIV is through ViiV Healthcare, the world’s only
two-drug oral treatment regimens. Both the US and European
specialist HIV pharmaceutical company, which we majority
Treatment Guidelines include Dovato as recommended for
own, with Pfizer and Shionogi as shareholders. Our goal is to
most adult patients who are new to therapy as well as for stably
limit the impact of HIV on people’s lives by treating, preventing
suppressed patients who need a switch in their HIV therapy.
and ultimately curing it.
We are developing long-acting medicines that have the Supporting people living with HIV with a range of
potential to dramatically change people’s experience by giving options
them an alternative to daily medicine. We are also working on
No single medicine works for all people living with HIV, so we
long-acting therapies to prevent HIV.
offer innovative choices that help address their evolving needs.
Replacing daily medicines with long-acting Our portfolio of approved antiretroviral medicines offers a range
regimens of therapeutic options and includes Tivicay and Triumeq, which
contain dolutegravir.
Our aim is to offer innovative choices that help address the
evolving needs of people living with HIV. Despite incredible In 2021, we received European marketing authorisation for the
progress made with current oral HIV medicines, some people first ever dispersible tablet formulation of dolutegravir in the form
living with HIV face challenges taking pills every day. We are of Tivicay, a treatment for children from four weeks old and over
transforming the lives of people living with HIV by reducing the three kilogrammes living with HIV in Europe. We also made a
number of days they take treatment from 365 to 12 or 6 per regulatory submissions to both the FDA and EMA for approval
year. This spares them the daily reminder of living with HIV, of a new dispersible tablet formulation of the fixed dose
as well as relieving the pressure of having to take medicine combination of abacavir, dolutegravir and lamivudine (Triumeq)
every day. and to lower the minimum weight at which a child can be
prescribed this medicine.
In January 2021, we received FDA approval for Cabenuva,
the first-ever complete, long-acting, injectable regimen for HIV, In Europe, we received approval in February 2021 for Rukobia
offering people living with HIV in the US a new approach to (fostemsavir), a first-in-class HIV attachment inhibitor. This
care. Studies show Cabenuva dosed once-monthly is as addresses an unmet need for heavily treatment-experienced
effective as three-drug oral regimens that patients currently adults with HIV-1 who aren’t responding to current antiretroviral
take every day. treatment and have exhausted all other options. The European
approval followed US approval in 2020, when it was fast-
We received approval for dosing once every two months in
tracked as an FDA breakthrough therapy.
the US in early 2022.
In Europe, the regimen is approved as the combination of Preventing HIV with long-acting cabotegravir PrEP
Vocabria (cabotegravir) and Rekambys (rilpivirine), with dosing
Preventing HIV is essential. This has been reinforced by the
every two months.
US Government’s goal to reduce acquisition of HIV by 75%
Launching this innovative treatment regimen has established by 2025.
ViiV Healthcare as the industry leader in developing long-acting
In December 2021, the FDA approved ViiV Healthcare’s
HIV medicines.
Apretude, the first and only long-acting injectable pre-exposure
prophylaxis (PrEP) option to reduce the risk of sexually acquired
Giving patients a two-drug regimen option
HIV-1.
Integrase inhibitors are the gold standard in HIV treatment and
Studies, reported in 2020, showed the once-every-two-month
our medicine dolutegravir is the most widely prescribed in the
regimen was superior to daily pills, with effectiveness three to
world. More than 21.3 million people living with HIV – almost
nine times higher (in men and women, respectively) than the oral
3 in 4 of those currently on HIV medicine – are now taking a
medicine in preventing HIV acquisition.
dolutegravir-based regimen. Our two-drug regimen oral
therapies Dovato and Juluca, based on dolutegravir, have
been shown to be as well tolerated and effective as three-drug
regimens. This allows people living with HIV to maintain viral
suppression while taking fewer HIV drugs over their lifetime.
1 h iv.gov/hiv-basics/overview/data-and-trends/global-statisticsInnovation continued
Increasing our ambition for patients Also in 2021 we announced a licensing agreement with life
Our pipeline includes a number of medicines with new sciences company Halozyme for its recombinant human
mechanisms of action that could be combined with our hyaluronidase called PH20. When PH20 is injected
integrase inhibitor, cabotegravir, to create medicines to further subcutaneously, it creates a temporary expansion under the
extend the interval between doses. We have two objectives. skin, allowing increased volumes of medicine to be delivered,
One is to produce the world’s first self-administered long-acting without added discomfort to the patient. With the ability to give
medicine for people who want to take medicine at home. The a larger dose, we hope to expand the interval between doses.
other is to develop an ultra-long-acting regimen, with dosing This opens up opportunities to combine cabotegravir with other
intervals of three months or longer. products in our pipeline to create ultra-long-acting regimens for
treatment and prevention of HIV. In particular, there’s potential
We have a 20-year history of success in developing integrase
for us to use this technology to increase the dosing interval of
inhibitors for HIV, including dolutegravir and cabotegravir,
cabotegravir for prevention from every two months to as long
through the collaboration with our shareholder Shionogi.
as every six months.
This year we signed an exclusive collaboration and licence
agreement with Shionogi for a third-generation integrase Our ultimate goal remains to find a cure for HIV. We are
inhibitor, a pre-clinical candidate called VH148. We believe it continuing to progress our unique industry/academic partnership
will give us the potential to offer medicines with longer dosing with the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill through our
intervals than cabotegravir. This could anchor our future pipeline jointly-owned QURA Therapeutics and we expect to start a
of innovative, long-acting therapies for HIV beyond 2030. phase I trial for a cure medicine in 2022.
Oncology
Cancer is second only to heart disease as the world’s We are continuing our DREAMM trials to understand the
biggest killer. We develop transformational cancer potential for Blenrep to be used in earlier lines of treatment,
medicines with life-changing potential for patients. as a monotherapy and in combination with standard and
novel therapies, as well as exploring dosing and scheduling
We have accelerated research into areas including synthetic
modifications. For example, in the DREAMM-5 platform study,
lethality and next generation immuno-oncology agents, drawing
we are investigating a novel combination of treatments with
on our own expertise in functional genomics and the science of
nirogacestat, a gamma secretase inhibitor (GSI), and
the immune system, and that of our partners.
isatuximab, a CD38 targeting monoclonal antibody.
In 2021, we had our oncology medicine Jemperli (dostarlimab)
approved for patients. This means we have three marketed Gynaecologic cancers
therapies, a further nine assets in development, and numerous
Gynaecologic cancers are some of the most common cancers
pre-clinical targets. This represents rapid progress since 2018,
affecting women. In 2020, nearly 1.4 million women around the
when we had no approved medicines and just eight assets in
world were diagnosed with a gynaecologic cancer.
development, the most advanced of them in phase I.
Approval for Jemperli to treat endometrial cancer
Blood cancers In 2020, there were over 400,000 new cases globally of
endometrial cancer (a cancer that begins in the lining of the
Multiple myeloma is the third most common blood cancer
uterus). Patients have limited treatment options if their cancer
worldwide – more than 175,000 people develop it every year.
progresses after first-line therapy.
Blenrep (belantamab mafodotin) is our treatment for patients
In April 2021, Jemperli (dostarlimab), received accelerated
who have relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma, and who
approval in the US for certain patients with dMMR endometrial
have received at least four other therapies. It’s the first therapy
cancer and conditional approval in Europe for certain patients
of its kind, as a humanised antibody drug conjugate targeting
with dMMR or MSI-H endometrial cancer. It treats advanced or
the protein B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA).
recurring endometrial cancer that has worsened despite
In 2020, Blenrep received regulatory approval in the US previous treatment with platinum-based chemotherapy. Jemperli
and Europe following the pivotal DREAMM-2 trial, which activates the immune system to better attack cancer cells.
demonstrated deep and durable responses in patients with
In August 2021, Jemperli received accelerated approval in the
advanced multiple myeloma. After launching in the US and
US for patients with dMMR solid tumours that have progressed
Germany, we expanded to another six EU countries in 2021
despite earlier treatment. This means Jemperli is now available
as well as the United Kingdom and Hong Kong.
to patients with confirmed dMMR solid tumours and those who
have no satisfactory alternative treatment options.
24 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 25
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Innovation continued
We are also investigating Jemperli as a first-line treatment in The IGNYTE-ESO phase II trial is evaluating lete-cel in patients
combination with chemotherapy for patients with advanced with synovial sarcoma and myxoid/round cell liposarcoma. This
or recurring endometrial cancer. The RUBY phase III trial is is on an accelerated development path after receiving European
evaluating the combination of Zejula and Jemperli as a PRIME and FDA breakthrough status.
maintenance treatment (see below).
We are also focused on developing the next generation of cell
Treating ovarian cancer with Zejula therapies, which include approaches and technologies that
More than 300,000 women were diagnosed with ovarian could further enhance anti-cancer activity.
cancer in 2020.
Through a collaboration with Lyell Immunopharma, we are
Our treatment Zejula (niraparib) is an oral, once-daily poly exploring more ways to enhance T-cells’ ability to attack and kill
(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor monotherapy tumour cells by further engineering cells that could be longer-
maintenance treatment for women with advanced ovarian lasting and more potent. We are also collaborating with
cancer, regardless of its biomarker status, who have responded Immatics Biotechnologies to build our capabilities in cell therapy
to platinum-based chemotherapy. In 2020, it received approval for solid tumours so more patients can benefit from this kind of
as a first-line maintenance treatment in the US and the EU. treatment.
We are evaluating Zejula in other pivotal trials, assessing activity
Early science and other collaborations
across multiple tumour types and exploring combinations of
Zejula with other therapeutics. Our pivotal FIRST phase III trial Across our R&D in oncology, we invest in new technologies and
is studying Zejula in combination with Jemperli as a treatment partnerships to push the boundaries of combatting cancer. One
for first-line ovarian cancer. of the most important areas is immuno-oncology. Additionally,
functional genomics helps us identify new treatment targets in
Other solid tumours synthetic lethality, an approach to cancer treatment that targets
only genetic mutations in cancer cells, not healthy cells.
Exploring Zejula for the treatment of lung and breast
cancer Continuing advances in immuno-oncology
We are currently conducting phase III trials with Zejula for lung Immuno-oncology is a fast-developing area, but the search for
and breast cancer. new targets is important, as so far less than 30% of patients
respond to certain immuno-oncology treatments.
Our phase III lung cancer trial, ZEAL, is investigating Zejula
as a first-line maintenance therapy for patients with advanced Through our work, we are aiming to help the immune system
non-small cell lung cancer (squamous and non-squamous recognise and kill cancer cells more effectively. We’re studying
histologies), after they have received platinum-based how combinations with our treatment Jemperli can enhance
chemotherapy. The trial is studying the efficacy and safety of anti-tumour activity utilising the CD226 axis, that is expressed
Zejula in combination with the standard of care treatment. on the surface of T-cells and natural killer cells, including the
checkpoints CD96, TIGIT and PVRIG.
Our phase III breast cancer trial, ZEST, is exploring the efficacy
and safety of Zejula as an early-stage treatment. The trial uses We are the only company with access to antibodies targeting
circulating tumour DNA technology for the first time in a pivotal all three CD226 axis checkpoints. GSK6097608 (anti-CD96)
breast cancer study. This offers the potential to detect tumour is in phase I development as a monotherapy and combined with
cells earlier at the molecular level and identify women at higher Jemperli. In June 2021, we partnered with iTeos Therapeutics to
risk of recurrence. This means therapy with Zejula could start further develop a TIGIT antibody, GSK4428859A, currently in a
when the burden of disease is still low and may create an phase Ib safety trial also in combination with Jemperli.
opportunity to more effectively slow or stop the cancer’s
Exploring the potential of functional genomics in
progress.
synthetic lethality
Harnessing cell therapy Our internal work on functional genomics has identified more
Cell therapy is an important avenue for treating cancer. We’re than ten target candidates in research for evaluation in the field
addressing this with our own cell therapy programme for solid of synthetic lethality. Partnering with IDEAYA Biosciences,
tumours, which combines strategies across research, clinical an oncology-focused precision medicine company, we are
development and supply chain to address patients’ unmet exploring MAT2A inhibition in tumours with MTAP deletion, a
needs. common feature of solid tumours. Our study moved to phase I in
2021. Together, we are also developing two new assets that we
Our lead cell therapy asset in development is letetresgene
expect to move into the clinic over the next few years.
autoleucel (lete-cel; GSK3377794), a T-cell receptor T-cell
therapy (TCR-T) which harnesses the immune system to
develop a personalised treatment. It does this by extracting a
patient’s T-cells, which are then genetically modified to express
a T-cell receptor (TCR) that targets the NY-ESO-1 antigen
found in various solid tumours.Innovation continued
Immunology including respiratory
Our focus on the science of the immune system helps us In November 2021, Alector announced encouraging new data
develop medicines for immune-mediated conditions like from the open label INFRONT-2 phase II trial. These data
lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and a range of inflammatory showed a consistent slowing of clinical progression in patients
diseases. For more than 50 years, we have also produced with FTD who were treated with AL001 compared to historical,
innovative medicines helping millions of people with matched FTD subjects, with both groups having the progranulin
respiratory conditions to breathe more easily. gene mutation. There was a trend towards normalisation or
stabilisation of disease-associated biomarkers. The INFRONT-3
Helping more lupus patients with Benlysta phase III trial is currently enrolling FTD patients with a mutation
Benlysta (belimumab) is the first and only biologic approved in the progranulin gene to confirm the phase II data.
for both the chronic autoimmune disease systemic lupus The partnership brings together Alector’s immuno-neurology
erythematosus (SLE) and lupus nephritis (LN), the kidney expertise and our R&D focus on the science of the immune
inflammation caused by lupus. It is a monoclonal antibody that system and human genetics, as well as our drug development
targets BLyS, an underlying cause of SLE and LN, and reduces capabilities.
autoantibody levels to help control the disease.
In 2021, we received approval for Benlysta in adult patients Growing our respiratory portfolio and tackling
with active lupus nephritis in several markets including Brazil, eosinophil-driven diseases
EU member states and Japan. In 2022, we also received We have one of the broadest portfolios of respiratory medicines
approval in China for this indication. This followed US approval in our industry, and it continues to grow. Since 2012, we have
for this use in 2020. launched five new inhaled therapies as well as a biologic,
Nucala (mepolizumab), the first-in-class monoclonal antibody
Moving towards a new way to treat rheumatoid that targets interleukin-5 (IL-5). We have been leading research
arthritis into eosinophil-driven diseases like asthma for more than 25
As many as 1% of people worldwide suffer from rheumatoid years. These are inflammatory conditions associated with
arthritis (RA), a chronic inflammatory disease that can cause elevated levels of eosinophils, a type of white blood cell,
pain, joint swelling and inflammation that can lead to acute and and can occur in a range of tissues and organs.
chronic disability. The needs are great, with only about 30% Our trials have studied how Nucala could change the lives
of RA patients achieving remission despite use of targeted of people affected by conditions such as severe eosinophilic
therapies currently available, and around 40% of patients asthma (SEA), hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES), eosinophilic
reporting daily pain, which can be debilitating. granulomatosis with polyangitis (EGPA) and chronic
In early-stage trials, otilimab, our novel monoclonal antibody rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRwNP). By targeting IL-5,
targeting GM-CSF, demonstrated rapid and substantial Nucala reduces the number of eosinophils, which, in excessive
improvement in pain, and has now moved to phase III studies. numbers, can cause inflammation. These trials have led to
We expect results of three pivotal studies by the end of 2022. important new approvals for Nucala, addressing unmet needs
With positive pivotal trial results, otilimab could become the for a broad group of patients.
first new medicine for RA in a decade. In 2021, the FDA approved Nucala for adults with CRSwNP, a
common, chronic condition which can cause difficulty breathing
Finding new disease targets in immuno-neurology
and sleeping, and interfere with taste and smell. With this
Focusing on human genetics and the science of the immune approval, Nucala is now indicated in the US for four eosinophil-
system has given us unique insights to pinpoint potential targets driven diseases. In November 2021, we received approvals for
for patients with neurodegenerative diseases. Nucala in Europe for CRSwNP, HES and EGPA.
In July 2021, we announced a partnership with Alector to In January 2022, we received FDA approval to extend the
develop two monoclonal antibodies (AL001 and AL101) for marketing authorisation for Nucala to include a specific
neurodegenerative diseases including frontotemporal dementia paediatric presentation in a pre-filled safety syringe, enabling
(FTD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson’s disease healthcare professionals or caregivers to administer Nucala at
and Alzheimer’s disease. Both antibodies are designed to raise home to appropriate patients. We are also awaiting European
levels of progranulin, which regulates immune activity in the approval for this indication.
brain. AL001 is in a pivotal phase III trial for people with, or at
high risk of developing, FTD due to a mutation in the progranulin
gene. It is also in a phase II trial in patients with ALS. AL101, in
development for Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease,
is in a phase Ia trial with healthy volunteers.
26 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 27
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Innovation continued
Nucala is also in a phase III trial to determine whether it can help Early-phase portfolio
patients with COPD with high eosinophil counts, about 40% of In 2021, we started a phase Ib trial for an existing IL-18
COPD patients, who are at increased risk of exacerbations. monoclonal antibody for atopic dermatitis and a phase I trial
Additionally, we are focused on developing depemokimab, a for a novel monoclonal antibody targeting IL-7 for multiple
long-acting anti-interleukin-5 (IL-5) monoclonal antibody. A sclerosis. Both of these were informed by our access to genetic
current phase III programme is assessing its safety and efficacy databases that identified the indications with the highest
in severe asthma with an eosinophillic phenotype. So far, results probability of success.
show it can reduce and suppress eosinophil levels for longer We also completed a worldwide licence agreement with
periods than other anti-IL-5 monoclonal antibodies. This would Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals for GSK4532990 (ARO-HSD),
mean treatment could be extended to one injection every six a genetically validated, investigational RNA interference (RNAi)
months. therapeutic currently in phase I/II development for patients with
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). The agreement covers
the medicine’s development and commercialisation outside of
greater China.
Our phase I pipeline also consists of other molecules targeting
the immune system for celiac disease, osteoarthritis pain and
neuro-degenerative disease.
Opportunity driven
Alongside our balanced portfolio across key therapy Innovating for patients with primary biliary
areas, we are also led by the science to pursue other cholangitis
opportunities.
We are also developing linerixibat, an ileal bile acid transporter
(IBAT) inhibitor, for the treatment of cholestatic pruritus in
Transforming the treatment of anaemia
patients with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), a condition
Over 700 million people suffer from chronic kidney disease in which there is a significant unmet need with no new
worldwide, and an estimated one in seven of them suffers from pharmacologic therapy since the 1960s. Following data from
anaemia. Many have limited treatment options today. the GLIMMER phase IIb trial, in 2021 we initiated the GLISTEN
Daprodustat has potential as a novel oral treatment in dialysis phase III trial. The GLIMMER study was the first time 23andMe
and non-dialysis settings. If approved daprodustat could bring helped us to identify, recruit and enrol patients who had opted
ease of use as an oral treatment with potential to improve on the to participate in research. The GLISTEN phase III study will also
current injection-based standard of care and work to effectively use the 23andMe database to help match patients. It is also our
manage haemoglobin levels. first US pivotal trial that allows assessment of participants at
home by using technology with a home-based app to track
Daprodustat is based on compelling human genetics and Nobel
progress.
Prize-winning science that demonstrated how cells sense and
adapt to oxygen availability. It is already approved in Japan under Following the FDA Orphan Drug Designation, in 2021 linerixibat
the name Duvroq. In 2021, data read out positively from five also received a positive decision on Orphan Drug Designation
phase III studies. Each independently met their primary efficacy from the European Commission.
and safety endpoints, demonstrating that daprodustat improved
or maintained patients within their target haemoglobin ranges
and also showed, in the primary safety analysis of the intention-
to-treat population, similar rates of major cardiovascular events
when compared to the injection-based standard of care, ESA
therapy, within each trial. Data from the ASCEND programme
will be used to support regulatory filings with health authorities
worldwide.Innovation continued
Pipeline overview
We have 64 assets in development, of which 22 are late-stage.
Phase III/Registration
Bexsero infants (US) vaccine Xevudy1 (sotrovimab/VIR-7831) COVID-19
COVID-19 (Medicago)1 vaccine3 Blenrep1 (anti-BCMA ADC) multiple myeloma
COVID-19 (Sanofi)1 vaccine3 Jemperli1 (PD-1 antagonist) 1L endometrial cancer2
COVID-19 (SK Bioscience)1 vaccine3 letetresgene-autoleucel1 (NY-ESO-1 TCR) SS/MRCLS2,6
MenABCWY (1st gen) vaccine Zejula1 (PARP inhibitor) ovarian, lung and breast cancer
Menveo liquid vaccine 45272231 (AL001, anti-sortilin) frontotemporal dementia2,7
MMR (US) vaccine depemokimab1 (LA anti-IL5 antagonist) asthma
Rotarix liquid (US) vaccine Nucala COPD
RSV maternal1,† vaccine otilimab1 (aGM-CSF inhibitor) rheumatoid arthritis
RSV older adults1 vaccine daprodustat (HIF-PHI) anaemia of chronic kidney disease
gepotidacin1 (BTI inhibitor) uUTI and GC linerixibat (IBATi) cholestatic pruritus in primary biliary cholangitis
Phase II
Malaria (fractional dose)1 vaccine bepirovirsen1 (HBV ASO) HBV
S. aureus1 vaccine4 30366561 (leucyl t-RNA inhibitor) tuberculosis
Shigella1 vaccine 3640254 (maturation inhibitor) HIV
Therapeutic HBV1 vaccine4 38101091 (broadly neutralising antibody) HIV
MenABCWY (2nd gen) vaccine4 cobolimab1 (TIM-3 antagonist) NSCLC
Varicella new strain vaccine
Phase I
C. difficile1 vaccine 3745417 (STING agonist) cancer
Klebsiella pneumoniae1 vaccine 38450971 (NY-ESO-1/TGFbR2 TCR T) cancer
SAM (COVID-19 model) vaccine 39019611 (NY-ESO-1/CD8a TCR T) cancer
SAM (rabies model) vaccine 40743861 (LAG3 antagonist) cancer
CMV vaccine 43626761 (Mat2A inhibitor) cancer
BVL-GSK0981 (ethionamide booster) tuberculosis 44288591 (EOS-448, TIGIT antagonist) cancer
VIR-24821 (neutralising monoclonal antibody) influenza8 6097608 (CD96 antagonist) cancer
25562861 (Mtb inhibitor) tuberculosis 45272261 (AL101, anti-sortilin) neurodegenerative diseases
31868991 (CRK-12 inhibitor) visceral leishmaniasis5 38582791 (anti-CCL17) osteoarthritis pain
34942451 (proteasome inh) visceral leishmaniasis 39153931 (TG2 inhibitor) celiac disease
38823471 (FimH antagonist) uUTI 1070806 (anti-IL18) atopic dermatitis
3923868 (PI4kβ inhibitor) viral COPD exacerbations 38881301 (anti-IL7 ) multiple sclerosis
41821371 (VIR-7832) COVID-194 45329901 (ARO-HSD siRNA) non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
3739937 (maturation inhibitor) HIV 27987451 (TRPV4 blocker) diabetic macular edema
cabotegravir (400 mg/ml formulation) HIV 38844641 heart failure
4004280 (capsid protein inhibitor) HIV
Only the most advanced indications are shown for each asset.
1 In-licence or other alliance relationship 7 Phase III trial in patients with progranulin NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; uUTI:
with third party. gene mutation uncomplicated urinary tract infection;
2 Additional indications also under investigation 8 G SK has exclusive option to co-develop GC: gonorrhea; SS: synovial sarcoma;
3 GSK contributing pandemic adjuvant post phase II MRCLS: myxoid/round cell liposarcoma
4 In phase I/II trial † Enrolment and vaccination stopped in
February 2022. Further analysis to better
5 Transition activities underway to enable understand safety data from these trials
further progression by partner
is ongoing
6 In potentially registrational phase II trial
28 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 29
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance
Strong financial performance in 2021 was driven by first class
commercial execution and strong uptake of new products.
Pharmaceuticals highlights Vaccines highlights
– Total 2021 turnover £17.7 billion, +4% AER, +10% CER – Total 2021 turnover £6.8 billion, -3% AER, +2% CER
– Sales of new and specialty pharmaceuticals £10 billion – COVID-19 pandemic sales for Vaccines £447 million
+20% AER, +26% CER including pandemic adjuvant sales of £444 million
– Sales of Xevudy £958 million reflecting the ongoing – Shingles: Shingrix sold in 17 countries, including nine
fulfilment of contracts across the world and most markets launched during 2021
significantly in the US – Meningitis: increased market share in the US for Bexsero
– Strong commercial execution of key growth products, and Menveo
including Trelegy and Nucala, which exceeded £1 billion – Maintained market share for key products despite
in sales for the first time significant disruption from COVID-19
– Better digital capabilities to support more effective – Excellent supply performance; our Shingrix supply is fully
engagement with healthcare professionals, higher unconstrained
productivity and a more efficient supply chain
– Accelerated our digital transformation, helping to drive
data-driven decisions in manufacturing and supply
Read more below Read more on page 31
Pharmaceuticals
Our performance Oncology continued to show strong double-digit sales growth.
Pharmaceuticals turnover in the year was £17,729 million, Sales of Zejula were £395 million, up 17% AER, 22% CER,
up 4% AER, 10% CER. impacted by ongoing lower diagnosis rates due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, particularly in the US. Blenrep was
Sales of Xevudy (sotrovimab), the monoclonal antibody
approved and launched in the US and Europe in Q3 2020,
treatment for COVID-19 of £958 million contributed
with ongoing launches throughout Europe in 2021. Blenrep
approximately 6 percentage points to Pharmaceuticals growth.
sales globally totalled £89 million.
By December 2021, less than a year since the first pivotal
phase III data, sotrovimab was being used to treat COVID-19 Immuno-inflammation sales of £885 million grew 22% AER,
patients. We had sold or reserved over 1.7 million doses 29% CER with Benlysta sales up 22% AER, 29% CER to
through agreements with the EU and over a dozen other £874 million, benefiting from lupus nephritis launches in US and
countries including the US, UK, Japan, Australia, Canada, Japan in H2 2020.
Singapore and UAE. Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals decreased 11% AER,
HIV sales were down 2% AER but up 3% CER, to £4,777 6% CER to £7,757 million.
million, with growth in Dovato and Juluca partly offset by
Adapting to the COVID-19 pandemic
Tivicay and Triumeq. Our broad portfolio includes new products
Cabenuva, our long-acting injectable treatment, Apretude, The COVID-19 pandemic continued to affect healthcare
our long-acting injectable for HIV prevention, and Rukobia, systems globally. It has seen the interruption of usual care
for highly treatment experienced patients. in many healthcare facilities, and a delay in diagnosis and
subsequent treatments. Patients with pre-existing medical
We maintained our lead position in respiratory, amid higher
conditions remain particularly vulnerable.
demand during the pandemic and strong commercial execution.
Respiratory sales were up 21% AER, 28% CER, to £2,863 Amidst the ongoing restrictions on access to customers we
million, with sales of Trelegy and Nucala each exceeding continued to perform strongly across markets in areas like
£1 billion per year for the first time. Approvals and launches oncology. We used online and digital tools to maintain strong
for more eosinophil-driven disease indications for Nucala, and engagement with healthcare professionals and continued to
increased uptake of the therapy’s home administration options, meet the needs of our patients through patient support
also boosted performance. Trelegy Ellipta, now in 48 markets, programmes.
further increased its market share in chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, and made gains in asthma, aided by
approval in Japan in late 2020.
See Group financial review on page 62 for more detailPerformance continued
Driving growth over the next decade Transforming interactions with healthcare
Our portfolio of pharmaceuticals is made up of innovative and professionals and patients
established medicines and we have leading global positions in It’s essential for us to maintain a strong connection with HCPs,
respiratory disease and HIV. We are developing our presence so we can meet their needs, and those of their patients. As with
in other specialty therapy areas, including oncology and many businesses, the pandemic has accelerated how we use
immuno-inflammation. Our broad portfolio supplies innovative technology to make ourselves more effective commercially.
and high-quality medicines, making a positive impact on the We’ve increased our use of virtual calls to keep HCPs informed
lives of millions of patients. Over the next five years we expect about clinical data, launches and products in our pipeline. This
specialty medicines to be a key driver of GSK’s growth. helps them understand the science behind our products, and
how best to use them.
This will be complemented by our newly defined General
Medicines business which contains all of our primary care In 2020, we ran successful pilots on how best to engage
brands, including Trelegy, Anoro and our classic and with HCPs in a coordinated way across online and traditional
established products which will support our broader investment channels. In 2021, we scaled this up, with up to 15 brands in
in innovation and R&D. 23 markets now using a data-led, automatically orchestrated
mix of traditional and digital promotion. In 2022, we’ll deploy
Our HIV business is also positioned for growth as we remain
and refine this further. Using novel data sets in our commercial
innovation leaders. We anticipate continued growth in our
analytics and orchestration engine will let us tailor what we
long-acting injectable therapies, with Cabenuva for the
deliver, plus how and when, to each HCP. Our global, data-
treatment of HIV and Apretude for HIV prevention. Looking
driven customer experience programme has been recognised
beyond 2026, we have multiple opportunities to sustain growth
externally, winning three silver awards in the International
with our late-stage assets and we’re excited about our early-
Customer Experience Awards 2021, and helps us improve
stage pipeline of further innovative long-acting medicines.
competitiveness. In the EU, digital investment has led to an
Strengthening our capabilities and organisation immediate 118% increase in HCPs attending webinars. And in
China, we’re reaching ten times more HCPs through WeChat
We want the best and brightest people in our specialty
than through our website alone.
medicines marketing and medical teams. In 2021, a continued
focus on appointing the right leaders led to us naming new As well as virtual meetings and educational activities, we’ve
general managers in 12 more countries (64 in all since 2017). brought clinical experience to customers through our global
We’re attracting top external people with the right expertise to speakers’ programme. This follows feedback from HCPs, who
compete. In oncology alone, we hired more than 300 people told us they like to receive information in a peer-to-peer setting
(109 in commercial, 208 in R&D) in 2021, 117 of them into from expert practitioners.
leadership positions. Leadership changes are improving the
We continue to engage with patients through patient support
interface between commercial and R&D functions, where early
programmes. Benlysta Cares is our US programme with
commercial input to select and develop pipeline assets can
information and guidance, including text reminders, help with
create lasting value.
benefits and savings, nurse support and exclusive content to
Optimised policies and collaboration between marketing, help patients taking Benlysta get the most from their treatment.
medical and sales teams have made our sales force more By September 2021, we’d enrolled over 150% more patients
effective and competitive across key markets. Changes to than we had by the same time in 2020. Benlysta Cares has
our sales incentives policy made a positive impact in our sales been shown to help more patients stick with the treatment. In
teams, with higher engagement and personal accountability. 2021, the US Patient Engagement Liaison (PEL) team ran 262
Internal audits show we achieved this without compromising patient education programmes with over 300,000 patients
our ethical standards in engagements with healthcare across all diseases. The PEL partnered with our national and
professionals (HCPs). In January 2021, we introduced individual local patient advocacy groups (PAGs) to give patients more
targets for more of our sales representatives to drive disease awareness and resources so they can have productive
competitiveness. conversations with care providers.
We have used data and predictive analytics to deliver engaging China Yinchuan COPD patient support programme is China’s
customer interactions, and monitor and improve sales first digital COPD patient management programme enabled by
performance and market share. big data, 5G and the internet of things (IoT). We’ve worked with
the National Healthcare Commission (NHC) to embed smart
digital technology in inhalers that helps doctors make sure
patients follow their prescriptions.
30 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 31
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance continued
Investing in our supply chain Keeping supply consistent and dependable
Our supply chain transformation continues in line with our Our success rests on maintaining a high-quality and reliable
portfolio’s shift to innovative specialty care products. New ways supply of products for patients and consumers. We reduced
of working in response to the pandemic, and agile resource total costs in the supply chain as we continue to increase
allocation to prioritise return on investment, helped us make productivity and simplify our supply network. Cost reductions
more savings. This sets GSK up to be leaner, more productive together with sales growth have improved the gross profit
and more financially efficient. margin by 1.2%.
Investing in facilities, people and manufacturing partnerships We strengthened our internal and external quality oversight
will continue to help us launch specialty medicines rapidly and model and modernised our quality management system, which
accelerate delivery across our portfolio. The new facility at our will simplify ways of working. We have improved deviation rates,
Barnard Castle (UK) site will start manufacturing medicines in and our pharmaceutical supply chain has continued to be in
the first quarter of 2022. Over the coming years, it will support our industry’s top quartile for FDA recalls per £1 billion of sales.
manufacturing of the majority of the key existing and new All 70 regulatory inspections of Pharmaceuticals sites were
biopharmaceutical assets in our pipeline. Since 2019, we have satisfactory.
invested £88.4 million in the expansion of our next generation
Because our safety performance is critical to our success we’ve
biopharma manufacturing facility in Upper Merion, Pennsylvania,
taken extra measures to make serious incidents less likely and
which is set to open in 2022. Our expanded facility in Rockville,
strengthen our safety culture. These include deploying Life
Maryland, will begin commercial supply in 2023. Saving Rules to help all employees understand and apply
A streamlined supply chain helps us control costs and allocate basic safety rules to their work, launching an operational safety
capital more effectively, with a bigger share now directed to leadership programme and strengthening our safety monitoring
specialty medicines. We have simplified our network and central systems.
functions, completing the divestment of the site in Poznań,
Reliability of our supply has improved from a median
Poland and the closure of Xochimilco, Mexico. Our commercial
performance of 95% on-time, in-full in 2018 to 97% in 2021.
and supply chain teams are collaborating on initiatives to lower
This was despite COVID-19 disruption. As well as applying
cost of goods sold (COGS), protect margin and increase profit.
supply chain segmentation, we’ve also improved performance
This work includes reducing active pharmaceutical ingredient
by investing in technology like Resilinc, a tool using AI to
costs, optimising capacity, improving processes and working
highlight emerging supply chain risks, and piloting digital twins
with suppliers. By simplifying our portfolio, we’ve also reduced
to optimise planning and increase operational efficiency.
the brands we sell from over 450 to 247 in four years, and SKUs
by 15%. We’ve accelerated our data, digital and analytics (DDA)
adoption and use of enterprise systems for managing data and
Investing in automation and AI/ML is improving efficiency by
documents and planning operations. They include value chain
reducing variability in our supply chain, as demonstrated by us
mapping for supply chain planning, and cognitive supply chain
being on track to reach top-quartile days in inventory outstanding
models to lower logistics costs.
(DIO), which frees up working capital. We expect more digital
investments in the next three years to help us improve planning
productivity and accuracy, and reduce our inventory.
Vaccines
Our performance Hepatitis vaccines sales were down 20% AER, 16% CER to
Vaccines 2021 turnover was £6,778 million in the year, down £460 million, adversely impacted by the de-prioritisation of
3% AER, but up 2% CER. As anticipated, our Vaccines routine US adult vaccination, increased hepatitis B vaccine
business faced significant disruption during 2021, given competition and unfavourable CDC stockpile movements in the
governments’ prioritisation of COVID-19 vaccination US, and by COVID-19-related travel restrictions in Europe and
programmes and measures to contain the pandemic. This International.
resulted in lower demand for routine adult vaccination, including Meningitis sales decreased 7% AER, 2% CER to £961 million
Shingrix and hepatitis vaccines. Vaccines turnover excluding driven primarily by unrepeated International tender volumes for
pandemic adjuvant sales decreased 9% AER, 5% CER to other meningitis vaccines. Bexsero sales were stable at AER,
£6,331 million. but grew 5% CER to £650 million, reflecting increased market
Shingrix decreased 13% AER, 9% CER to £1,721 million. share in the US. Menveo sales were up 3% AER, 9% CER to
Sales fell in the US and International. Sales grew in Europe, £272 million, primarily driven by 2020 cohort catch-up
driven by Germany and launches in the UK, Spain and Italy. vaccinations and 2021 higher demand, as well as increased
Shingrix was sold in 17 countries, including nine markets market share in the US.
launched during 2021.
See Group financial review on page 64 for more detailPerformance continued
Adapting to the COVID-19 pandemic By 2026, we plan to launch several new vaccines, including
The pandemic continued to dominate 2021 as highly our programme to help prevent RSV through the vaccination of
transmissible variants emerged and countries around the world older adults, a significant medical and commercial opportunity.
cycled in and out of stay-at-home orders. Countries with access We will support these goals by drawing on our strong
to COVID-19 vaccines made them available to their adult manufacturing capability and scale, as well as our global
populations and then children. Healthcare systems had to adapt reach and commercial execution.
significantly to enable this huge vaccination endeavour, which had Another area of focus has been attracting and retaining the
repercussions across many aspects of health provision, including right people in strategic areas and further strengthening our
a lower priority on vaccines for diseases other than COVID-19. capabilities, including mRNA which is now the focus of
The pandemic also meant we did not always have as much approximately 250 of our people.
access to customers as usual. Despite this, we maintained our
Digital capabilities
market share for key vaccines in strategic countries. We held
virtual meetings with HCPs and attended other events virtually to We continue to build our capabilities through Vaccine Virtual
provide educational support and material about vaccination. We Days, bringing HCPs together, bringing us closer to our
continued to inform people about the importance of immunisation customers and sharing scientific discourse from the world’s
through disease awareness and branded campaigns for leading experts in vaccines. Through our new eCongress
meningitis, shingles, and diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (DTP). platform, we extended the second edition of this event to HCPs
from more than 150 countries, including China, and offered
Driving growth over the next decade translations in eight different languages. This attracted over
Our portfolio of marketed vaccines is the broadest in the 11,000 registrants, and we received a Net Promoter Score
industry. It includes more than 20 vaccines, helping to protect (HCP feedback score) that was above the industry standard.
people worldwide from a range of diseases throughout their The event played a role in helping to improve and protect public
lives, including meningitis, shingles, flu, polio, measles and many health everywhere.
more – and 90% of our vaccines by sales have an efficacy level We also continue to work with Philips on its Pregnancy+ and
of above 90%. Baby+ apps. Our partnership with Philips is live in 12 countries,
In commercial terms, vaccines tend to have a longer lifecycle reaching approximately 30 million parents and continues to be
than medicines and can generate significant revenues over an effective tool for educating parents about the vaccines in
decades. For example Engerix, our vaccine to help prevent our paediatric portfolio. Following this success, we launched
hepatitis B virus infection, has been available for more than a digital partnership in the fourth quarter of 2021 focused on
30 years and will remain an important part of our portfolio. adults. This time the partnership is with San Francisco-based
In November 2021 the CDC’s Advisory Committee on Nextdoor, a neighbourhood network used by almost one in
Immunization Practices voted unanimously to recommend three households in the US.
hepatitis B vaccination for all adults aged 19 to 59 years.
Global momentum behind vaccination
Vaccines is expected to be one of the largest drivers of growth
COVID-19 vaccination programmes required countries and
for GSK, with high single-digit percentage sales growth
populations to adapt and learn – and we believe this will have
(CAGR) anticipated over the 2021-2026 period. We aim to
a positive long-term impact on vaccinations more widely,
double revenues of Shingrix, our shingles vaccine, in that
particularly for adults. Attitudes to vaccination have shifted as
five-year period, and to double both meningitis and flu vaccine
well – our research among people aged 50 years and older
sales in the next decade, helping to protect millions of people
in eight of our largest vaccine markets in 2021 showed an
from these diseases.
increase in positive attitudes to vaccination as a result of
the pandemic.
32 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 33
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Performance continued
There is a real opportunity for healthcare systems to harness We continue to apply a co-development model where colleagues
this momentum because the need for vaccination remains in R&D and manufacturing work hand-in-hand to scale up
strong. In the US, we commissioned and published a report production as effectively and efficiently as possible. An ongoing
with Avalere Health which showed that adolescents and adults example is how we are preparing for an accelerated launch of our
may have missed more than 37 million doses of recommended RSV candidate with investment in Wavre in both clinical and
vaccines between January 2020 and July 2021, compared to commercial activities.
2019. These findings demonstrate how routine immunisation in
We have made great strides in unlocking capacity and getting
2021 continued to lag below pre-pandemic levels. The original
the most from our existing assets. A good example of this is our
Avalere report was followed by the CDC’s own analysis of
shingles vaccine, Shingrix, where we have improved yield and
missed vaccine doses, and calls from government, public policy
throughput across the supply chain. Reductions in lead times
groups and the media to prioritise the recovery of vaccination
also mean we are now fully unconstrained on Shingrix supply,
rates for diseases other than COVID-19.
which will support our growth aspirations.
Supply performance We have also met our COVID-19 commitments, scaling our
pandemic adjuvant production to respond to fluctuating We continue to strengthen our manufacturing capability to
demand. This agility meant we delivered on our adjuvant
make sure we support the growth of our vaccines portfolio.
agreements, and pandemic adjuvant sales made an important
Despite the supply chain disruptions caused by the pandemic,
contribution to our revenue. (For more about our COVID-19
in 2021 we had another very strong year for supply
solutions, see page 21.)
performance.
At the same time, we’ve continued to accelerate our digital
We are proud of the fact that all our strategic vaccines sites
transformation, including investment in a manufacturing
are approved by multiple regulatory agencies including the
execution system. More than 50 production lines at ten sites are
FDA. In 2021, our network of 12 manufacturing sites, in nine
switching from paper batch recording to electronic. The system
countries, produced and delivered 767 million doses.
will be deployed over the next three years, with benefits
Throughout the year we continued to invest in this network, including operational efficiency, lead-time reduction, and
modernising and automating our filling and packaging activities, improvements in compliance, yield and stability.
building our mRNA production capabilities and adding launch
This investment, along with many others, will accelerate
capacity for pipeline products such as RSV. We are also
data-driven decisions in manufacturing and supply. Examples investing in the infrastructure needed for the future with a
of data analytics and technology improvements include robotic
planned lyophilisation (freeze drying) unit at our site in Wavre,
automation of our material handling activity, ‘bots’ to replace
Belgium, which will support our manufacturing capacity for
repetitive manual tasks, and automating the visual inspection
priority products and our innovation pipeline.
of syringes and vials using AI/ML.
We have worked across our supply chain to reduce our
We are also embedding Lean Six Sigma tools and techniques
end-to-end lead times, improve our agility in the marketplace
into our processes, systems and capabilities to improve our
and more effectively manage demand uncertainty. This close
ways of working.
cooperation, from the shop floor to delivery to the end-
customer, allows us to make better-informed decisions by The investments we’re making in our manufacturing facilities and
sharing data, to free up cash through increased efficiency and people will help us in many ways, for example ensuring that we
to be more competitive in tenders with our customers. have the right mRNA capabilities and talent in place. Together,
these investments will help make our manufacturing ready to
By redesigning our supply chains, we are reducing lead times
support a bright future in Vaccines.
and making sure we have the right inventory at the right place to
win in the marketplace. This is part of a multi-year effort to use
our working capital more effectively.Trust
Trust is one of our three long-term priorities. The more trust we
build, the better we perform and the more value we create for
shareholders, our people and society.
Our Trust priority covers our work across ESG factors, and it’s ESG governance
integral to our overall strategy. Our approach to ESG helps us Our Board-level Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC)
deliver sustainable performance and long-term growth, as well oversees our progress against our commitments and how we’re
as building trust with our stakeholders (see Stakeholder addressing the views and expectations of our stakeholders.
engagement on page 44). It also reduces risk to our operations The GLT and senior management are responsible for delivery
(see Risk management on page 46) and helps us make a of our Trust commitments and report regularly to the CRC on
positive social impact. progress (see page 104).
We have 13 commitments in the ESG areas where we can
Our approach to reporting
make the biggest difference. The commitments help us respond
to challenges and opportunities in our industry and broader In this section, we report highlights of our 2021 progress
society (see External environment on pages 13 to 16). They also against each of our 13 Trust commitments. We provide more
contribute to many of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, detailed reporting and data on each commitment in our ESG
especially Goal 3: to ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing Performance Report. This report also includes our UN Global
for all, at all ages. Compact Communication on Progress, Global Reporting
Initiative index, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board index
gsk.com: Our contribution to the SDGs
and assurance statements for our social and environmental
data.
g sk.com: ESG Performance Report
External benchmarking
We have maintained our acknowledged leadership in ESG, and this continues to be a key driver in our goal to deliver health
impact and shareholder returns. Detailed below is how we perform in key ESG ratings that we are frequently asked about
by investors.
– Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI): 1st in – CDP: A- in Climate Change, B in Water, B in Forests
pharmaceutical industry group for 2021 (palm oil and timber) and Supplier Engagement Leader
– S&P Global Sustainability Award: Gold Class 2022 – Sustainalytics: Low risk rating
– Access to Medicine Index (ATMI): Ranked 1st in ATMI in – MSCI: AA rating
2021, and an industry leader in the 2021 Antimicrobial – Vigeo Eiris: Ranked 2nd in the pharmaceuticals sector
Resistance Benchmark
– FTSE4Good: Member of FTSE4Good Index since 2004
34 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 35
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Trust continued
Using our science and technology to address health needs
Commitment Progress in 2021
New medical innovations – 2021 saw three major approvals for medicines, eight phase III starts and have 64 vaccines
Develop differentiated, and medicines in our pipeline. For more details, see the Innovation section on pages 17 to 28.
high-quality and needed
medicines, vaccines and
consumer healthcare products
to improve health
Global health – Our commitment to improve global health impact through R&D for infectious diseases and
Improve global health impact access to medicines and vaccines has been recognised in the Access to Medicines Index
through R&D for infectious (ATMI) where we have ranked number one for the last seven years, every year since its
diseases that affect children inception.
and young people in low- – Our RTS,S/AS01e malaria vaccine is the first and only vaccine shown in long-term clinical
income countries, focusing on trials to reduce malaria in children. In 2021, the WHO recommended broader deployment of
the vaccine, to reduce illness and deaths in children in sub-Saharan Africa and other regions
HIV, malaria and TB
with moderate to high malaria transmission. This followed new data which showed that the
vaccine, in combination with seasonal antimalarials, lowers clinical episodes of malaria,
hospital admissions with severe malaria and deaths by around 70% compared to antimalarials
alone. In December 2021, Gavi announced its decision to provide funding for the
procurement and introduction of the vaccine into routine child immunisation programmes
in Gavi eligible countries.
– We made good progress in improving availability of age-appropriate HIV treatment options for
children around the world. A generic dolutegravir dispersible tablet was made available in key
sub-Saharan African countries, less than a year after US FDA approval of this treatment. This
work was facilitated by our public-private partnership with the Clinton Health Access Initiative,
Unitaid and two generic manufacturers: Mylan (now part of Viatris group) and Macleods.
– Shigella is the second biggest cause of morbidity and mortality from diarrhoea worldwide
after rotavirus, and no approved vaccine is widely available. In late 2021, the first subjects
were vaccinated with our quadrivalent shigella vaccine candidate, in a first-time-in-human,
clinical phase I/II study. Our goal is to develop an affordable vaccine giving broad protection
against the most prevalent shigella serotypes.
– We have the richest pipeline focused on global health priority diseases in the industry,
including ten medicines and vaccines currently in clinical development.
– We launched a collaboration with Novartis in 2021, Project Africa Gradient, to support
scientific research on the link between genetic diversity and patients’ response to malaria and
tuberculosis drugs in three African regions.
Health security – We have taken a broad approach to developing COVID-19 solutions. To see how we have
Help the world to better applied our science to finding COVID-19 innovations, see page 21.
prepare for future disease – We were one of five companies to sit on the Pandemic Preparedness Partnership Steering
outbreaks with pandemic Group, convened by the UK Government in 2021, bringing together industry, international
potential, and tackle organisations and experts to advise G7 governments on how to speed up the response to a
antimicrobial resistance future pandemic. The Trinity Challenge, of which we were a founding member, also
announced the winners of its inaugural competition to find innovative ways to better predict
and prevent outbreaks of disease, using data and analytics. Winners included the
VaccineLedger, which tracks vaccines from manufacture to patient, using blockchain
technology.
– Our commitment to preventing antimicrobial resistance (AMR) was recognised by the Access
to Medicine Foundation’s AMR Benchmark, with GSK an industry leader for the third
consecutive time in 2021. The benchmark highlighted in particular the diversity and depth of
our R&D pipeline, particularly our AMR-relevant vaccines.
For full details of our progress against these commitments, please see our ESG Performance ReportTrust continued
Making our products affordable and available
Commitment Progress in 2021
Pricing – In developed markets, pricing of all our new products reflects the value they deliver to patients,
Improve the health of millions of healthcare systems and wider society compared to available alternatives, and supports our
people each year by making work to meet future healthcare needs. We offer patient support and, in the US during 2021,
our products available at provided prescribed vaccines and medicines to more than 87,000 low-income uninsured,
underinsured, and Medicare Part D patients through GSK and ViiV Healthcare’s Patient
responsible prices that are
Assistance Programs Foundation.
sustainable for our business
– For pricing in low income countries (LICs) and lower middle income countries (LMICs) we
use innovative pricing structures to extend product reach. Our vaccines business has a tiered
pricing model based on World Bank gross national income country classifications, and we do
not file patents for our medicines or enforce historic patents in low-income countries LICs.
Product reach – Our access strategies continued to reach many more underserved people in lower income
Use access strategies to reach countries. We made good progress against our target in 2021, and have now reached over
800 million underserved 323 million people with our products using access strategies. These strategies include our
people in lower income advanced market commitments to provide our vaccines to lower income countries through
countries with our products Gavi. Our partnership with Gavi includes supplying Cervarix, a critical tool in lower income
by 2025 countries for addressing cervical cancer, Synflorix, our pneumococcal vaccine, and Rotarix
our vaccine against rotavirus, the most common cause of severe diarrhoeal disease in children
under five.
– In 2021, we also made a commitment to supply Rotarix through the Humanitarian mechanism
for civil society organisations serving the vaccination needs of refugee and other emergency
situations. This builds on our existing commitment to the Humanitarian Mechanism for
Synflorix.
– ViiV Healthcare has voluntary licensing agreements with generic manufacturers. These have
allowed at least 21.3 million people living with HIV across 119 LICs and LMICs access to a
generic product containing dolutegravir by the end of 2021.
– We have donated over ten billion albendazole tablets, including 526.4 million in 2021, to
support efforts to end lymphatic filariasis and control intestinal worms in school-age children.
Healthcare access – We have a number of partnerships with NGOs and multilateral organisations to improve
Partner to improve disease disease prevention, awareness and access to healthcare services. By 2021, these
prevention, awareness and programmes reached 13.9 million people. Over the next year we’re developing an ambitious
access to healthcare services global health strategy for GSK which will include setting a new target.
for 12 million people by 2025 – Our partnership with Save the Children increased its emergency preparedness and response
capability, investing in data analytics and early-action protocols to provide efficient and timely
healthcare in crises. Our partnerships with Save the Children, Amref Health Africa and CARE
International have trained more than 108,000 front-line health workers since 2011. They
reached over 17.3 million people with prevention and treatment for infectious diseases, plus
providing maternal/child healthcare, vaccination, hygiene sanitation and nutrition.
– ViiV Healthcare’s Positive Action programme aims to explore ways to support people-centred
and community-led interventions to help meet the UN targets to end AIDS by 2030. In 2021,
the programme reached approximately 274,000 people and funded 66 grants across 28
countries.
For full details of our progress against these commitments, please see our ESG Performance Report
36 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 37
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Trust continued
Being a modern employer
Commitment Progress in 2021
Engaged people – In early 2022, we launched a new all-company survey focused on purpose, strategy,
Achieve and maintain a engagement and culture progress. Engagement remains high at 78% and above the general
competitive employee industry benchmark, settling back to 2019 levels after an extra boost during the early phases
engagement score by 2022 of the pandemic.
Inclusion and diversity – Our aspiration is that women hold at least 45% of VP and SVP roles by the end of 2025. In
Accelerate our progress on 2021, women held 40% of roles at VP and above, up from 38% in 2020. The FTSE Women
inclusion and diversity, Leaders ranking showed that we are in the top 10% of FTSE 100 companies based on the
including aspirational targets proportion of women on our Board and in leadership positions1. We also published our fifth
annual UK ‘gender pay gap’ report in 2021, which showed that we continue to outperform the
for female and ethnically
national average.
diverse representation in senior
– Our aspiration is to have at least 30% ethnically diverse leaders in our roles at VP and above in
roles by the end of 2025, and
the US and at least 18% in the UK, by the end of 2025. Our representation as at 31 December recognition as a disability
2021 showed that we had 12.9% ethnically diverse leaders in VP and above roles in the UK, up
confident employer and in
from 11.1% in 2020. In the US, we had 27.1% ethnically diverse leaders in roles at VP and
LGBT+ indices
above, up from 23.2% in 2020. This progress is supported by our rigorous focus on equal
employment opportunity. We have launched programmes such as Accelerating Difference –
Ethnic Diversity, which supports the development of ethnically diverse employees, building on
their strengths and addressing development gaps through individual and group coaching. From
2023 we will publish GSK’s ‘ethnicity pay gap’ data for the UK.
– We have developed a three-year plan to increase our disability confidence. As part of this we
have rolled out our workplace adjustments programme to our biggest markets, making it
available to over 40% of our employee population so far. We also signed up to the International
Labour Organization’s Global Business and Disability Network, to promote the inclusion of
people with disabilities in workplaces.
– We continue to be recognised in global LGBT+ indices, including being designated as a Best
Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality in the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2021
Corporate Equality Index.
Health, wellbeing and – GSK’s Leadership Team has continued to oversee our COVID-19 response, including the
development health, wellbeing and engagement of our employees in all our locations. We continuously
Be a leading company in how monitor the impact of COVID-19 on our employees and as public health vaccination
we support employee health, programmes continue, we’re helping to educate and raise awareness about them. Where
wellbeing and personal there are no public health vaccination programmes available, we have committed to offer
development vaccinations at minimal cost to our employees and their eligible dependents.
– We continued to make mental health training available for all our employees, and 66% of
managers have completed it since it launched in 2019. We make confidential support
available through our global Employee Assistance Programme, and we successfully piloted a
new wellbeing programme focused on resilience strategies and energy management and will
continue to implement a global rollout in 2022.
– We run health and safety training for our people, which covers how to identify and take
measures to reduce workplace risks. In 2021, our reportable injury and illness rate remained
at 0.16 per 100,000 hours worked and there were no fatalities.
– All our employees have access to our internal development portal – the Keep Growing
Campus. This offers extensive development courses, videos and articles on a range of topics,
including decision making, building change capability, coaching, influencing others and health
and wellbeing. In 2021, our people completed 84,493 leadership and business courses.
1 Data on employees by gender (including total employees, Board and management) is provided in our non-financial information statement on page 54
F or full details of our progress against these commitments, please see our ESG Performance ReportTrust continued
Being a responsible business
Commitment Progress in 2021
Reliable supply – It’s a priority to make sure there is a high-quality and reliable supply of our products for
Commit to quality, safety and patients and consumers. This has continued to be of high importance throughout the
reliable supply of our products pandemic, which has put increased strain on global supply chains. For more on how we
for patients and consumers manage continuity of supply, see pages 31 and 33.
– Our quality management systems allow for continuous improvement, helping us to keep up
high standards for product quality and safety. In 2021, we had 171 external regulatory
inspections at our manufacturing sites and local operating companies – many conducted
virtually because of the pandemic. We respond to all inspection findings, no matter how minor.
We also ran 1,833 quality audits of suppliers, and 312 audits of clinical trials run by, or on
behalf of, GSK to assess their quality and safety. Where we find areas to improve, we create
improvement plans and track their progress.
Ethics and values – Everyone at GSK has to complete training on what the company expects from them. In 2021,
Operate an ethical, values- we renamed this mandatory employee code of conduct training ‘Working at GSK’ and
driven culture, in which any improved the content to focus on risk and compliance, as well as diversity and creating an
issues are responded to swiftly inclusive workplace. In 2021, 99.4% of employees and 92.9% of contract workers completed
this training.
and transparently
– Anyone inside or outside GSK can raise concerns or speak to an independent third party
through our Speak Up reporting channels, confidentially or anonymously, without fear of
retaliation. We continue to take every concern raised seriously, and review every report to
identify whether we need to investigate formally. If investigations show an employee has
breached our policies, we take action.
– In 2021, we changed the way we report disciplinary data and expanded the scope to include
cases which were initiated in previous years. In 2021, 2,065 employees had concerns raised
against them, with an additional 757 employees with concerns raised from prior year’s open
cases. We disciplined 1,176 employees (298 of whom initially had concerns raised in previous
years), an increase from 2020 primarily driven by late completion of mandatory training. Of
these, 265 either left voluntarily or were dismissed, and 923 received a written warning. In
other cases, we took action short of a written warning. At the end of 2021, we had 427 cases
awaiting investigation or a disciplinary decision.
– During 2021, we undertook an independent assessment of our approach to managing
human rights, to help us better understand how we can continue to improve how we manage
our priority human rights areas. The assessment showed that there is good understanding
of our human rights impacts and we will be reviewing and addressing the findings in the year
to come.
– How our third parties act can have a direct impact on us meeting our priorities. It is important
to manage our relationships with them well, including the way we choose, contract and
monitor them. Our Third-Party Oversight (TPO) programme evaluates and mitigates the risks
introduced through engaging third-parties to provide goods or services for GSK. We
complete assessments for the portion of our third parties that may present greater potential
risk, for example, interactions with government officials or annual transfers of value above
certain pre-defined limits. In 2021, we ran more than 12,800 assessments of these higher
risk third parties across more than 20 risk areas, identifying over 55% as high-risk in one or
more areas. Most of these third parties are goods and services providers (70%), contract
manufacturers and external suppliers (2%) or distributors and wholesalers (9%). We are
evaluating our TPO programme to simplify the upfront assessment and broaden its focus to
risk management throughout the third-party relationship, using user feedback and findings
from our ongoing monitoring.
For full details of our progress against these commitments, please see our ESG Performance Report
38 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 39
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Trust continued
Being a responsible business continued
Commitment Progress in 2021
Data and engagement – In 2021, we simplified our privacy notices and made them easier to access through a portal
on all our websites. Privacy is a key part of the mandatory ‘Working at GSK’ annual training
that all our people have to complete. This helps employees to understand that everyone at
GSK is responsible for handling personal information in the right way.
– Our patient panels give us insights and advice, as well as building trusting, long-term
relationships with patients and carers that help us develop medicines that meet patients’ needs.
In 2021, we ran panels in disease areas including cancer, rheumatoid arthritis and hepatitis B.
– As part of our commitment to data transparency for our clinical studies, we have published
2,776 clinical study reports and 6,239 summaries of results. We have listed 2,550 studies for
data sharing via www.vivli.org and www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com.
– We want our clinical trials to be as representative and accessible as possible, reflecting the
patient populations with the disease including age, race, ethnicity, sex and gender. Over the
past five years, we have endeavoured to improve patient diversity in our clinical trials by
implementing training and support to personnel at investigator sites including awareness
training on conducting clinical trials in under served communities. In 2021, we formed a Global
Demographics and Diversity team to coordinate our learning about epidemiology, burden of
disease and health equity, and how they relate to age, sex, gender, race and ethnicity, so we
can apply these lessons when planning our trials.
Environment Climate
Have a net zero impact on – To achieve our ambitious net zero goal we have set targets across our value chain carbon
climate and a net positive footprint. The targets have been accredited by the Science Based Targets Initiative as aligning
impact on nature by 2030 to a 1.5oC pathway.
– In 2021, we reduced our operational carbon emissions (scope 1 and 2) by 15% compared to
2020, primarily through increased use of renewable energy1. In September 2021, we
announced a £50 million investment in UK and US manufacturing sites to secure renewable
power generation. This includes new wind turbines and a 20-year power purchase agreement
to supply solar electricity for our Irvine facility in Scotland, and solar energy for our Oak Hill
facility in New York.
– In 2020 (our latest available data), emissions from our suppliers, logistics and people using our
products (scope 3) reduced by 8% reflecting the evolution of our product portfolio and
reductions in business travel and commuting as a result of the pandemic. Our metered dose
inhalers for asthma and COPD account for 40% of our carbon footprint so in 2021 we started
an R&D programme to find a lower-impact propellant that could reduce emissions from them by
about 90%.
Nature
– Collaboration is an important part of our strategy and during the year we joined nine other
global pharmaceutical companies to launch the Energize programme. This is the first
collaboration of its kind to use the scale of a single industry’s global supply chain to drive
greater use of renewable electricity. We were a Principal Partner of the UN Global Climate
Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow and we championed the need for action on climate
and nature to protect health. We also joined the Health Systems Task Force of the
Sustainable Markets Initiative to drive collective action in digital healthcare, supply chains and
patient care pathways to accelerate the shift to net zero.
– We make our Climate-Related Financial Disclosure on pages 49 to 52 along with our energy
and carbon emissions data. GSK’s carbon reduction pathway to become net zero by 2030
can be found on gsk.com.
1 Energy and carbon emissions data is provided in our Climate-related financial disclosure on pages 49 to 52.
F or full details of our progress against these commitments, please see our ESG Performance ReportTrust continued
Being a responsible business continued
Commitment Progress in 2021
Environment – We are involved in developing standardised guidance on measuring our impact on nature
continued through working with the Science Based Targets for Nature Initiative and the Taskforce on
Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD). We will achieve our net nature positive goal by
reducing our environmental impacts across water, materials and biodiversity and investing in
protecting and restoring nature.
– In 2021, we reduced overall water use in our operations by 16% compared to 2020, and by
21% in sites in high water stress regions. 91% of our sites are now good water stewards, in line
with the Alliance for Water Stewardship’s definition. During the year, we joined the Water
Resilience Coalition (WRC), partnering to develop our approach to water neutrality in water-
stressed regions and to deliver water resilience projects on the ground. Our Cape Town site in
South Africa is the first in our network to embark on the journey towards water neutrality, and
we are working with the WRC and local partners to address shared water challenges by
clearing alien plant species and replanting local flora to create greater resilience in the basin.
– In 2021, we reduced the waste from our sites by 7% and recovered 43% of these materials
through circular routes like reuse or recycling. Consumer Healthcare launched 40 million
recycle-ready toothpaste tubes in over 20 markets.
– In 2021, we piloted our approach to biodiversity at our Stevenage site in the UK, working in
partnership with Kew Gardens to deliver a 39% increase of biodiversity at the site. We aim to
have measurable and effective biodiversity plans in place across all GSK sites by 2025.
– In 2021, we joined the public-private Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest Finance
(LEAF) coalition which contributes high-quality emissions reductions by supporting countries
to protect their tropical forests from deforestation.
For full details of our progress against these commitments, please see our ESG Performance Report
40 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 41
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consumer Healthcare
Our future standalone Consumer Healthcare business, Haleon, which is on
track to separate from GSK in mid-2022, will be a new world leader focused
on consumer healthcare.
– Consumer Healthcare had 26 first-market launches for – Committed to producing one billion recyclable toothpaste
new innovations in 2021 tubes by 2025
– Total 2021 turnover £9.6 billion -1% AER, +4% CER – Significant investment in on-site solar power towards goal
(excluding brands divested/under review) to source 100% of our electricity from renewable sources
– E-commerce represented 8% of total sales by 2025
– Delivered 3.7 billion consumer healthcare products – Announced growth ambitions of 4-6% annual organic sales
growth in the medium term, sustainable moderate margin
expansion and high cash conversion
A sector more relevant than ever Passing key milestones and looking ahead
Global consumer healthcare is a growing, £150 billion-plus Despite the challenges we’ve all faced during the pandemic,
market. Events of the last two years have underscored the we successfully completed the integration of Pfizer Consumer
industry’s importance. The pandemic, which continues to have Healthcare in 2021 with no delay to timings as well as over-
an impact across the world, means consumers are focusing delivering on our synergy targets. This was a complex
more on health and wellness, whether it’s managing their integration which impacted multiple parts of our business
symptoms, or proactively looking after their wellbeing with including commercial, manufacturing and R&D. The completion
vitamins, minerals and supplements. marked a major milestone in our separation planning.
Our new Consumer Healthcare company, Haleon, will be
Self-care supports healthcare
UK-based and listed, and in October 2021 we announced
The burden on healthcare systems is increasing, driven by an proposals for new company headquarters to be located in
ageing population and a rising middle class population. The Weybridge at a newly built campus which will also feature
consumer healthcare sector, particularly over-the-counter (OTC) an innovation centre. Due to open at the end of 2024, subject
products, play an important role in addressing this challenge. to consultation and planning approvals, our ambition is for it
Data shows that for every $1 spent on OTC medicines in the to reflect our ambitious sustainability targets that we set out
US, the healthcare system saves over $7 which amounts to in 2020.
$146 billion annually.
We are set up for success. We have grown from a business
The opportunity for a standalone consumer with about £6 billion in annual sales and an operating margin
of 11.3% in 2015, to one with sales of £9.6 billion and an
healthcare company
operating margin of 23.3% in 2021; a world-leading consumer
The consumer healthcare sector’s role in supporting broader
healthcare business.
public health presents a significant opportunity for a standalone
company focused on consumer healthcare.
An industry-leading portfolio
In 2018, we announced our plan to separate our Consumer As a world leader in consumer healthcare, we hold leadership
Healthcare business as a UK-listed company through a positions in the five categories that we operate in: oral health1;
demerger. vitamins, minerals and supplements (VMS); pain relief;
Since then, we have made significant progress in preparing respiratory health; and digestive health.
for that separation, which is due to happen in mid-2022. Our growth strategy is based on prioritising investment in
In June 2021, we confirmed our intention to separate through our nine power brands and a number of other strategically
a demerger. In July 2021, Brian McNamara was named as important brands concentrated in key countries and regions.
CEO-designate for the new Consumer Healthcare company, Our previously described operating model has been designed
and in December 2021 Sir Dave Lewis was appointed to drive the performance of these brands. Through the
Chairman designate. In February 2022 we laid out our strategic divestment of low growth brands, we have a focused portfolio.
priorities, key growth drivers, detailed financial information and
Geographically, we are number one or two in 70% of the OTC
the name, Haleon, for the future Consumer Healthcare
and VMS markets we operate in.2 This includes our priority
business. See gsk.com for information.
markets in the US and China.
1 Therapeutic oral health segment
2 Nicholas Hall's DB6 Consumer Healthcare (OTC/VMS) Database,
2020 Store and E-commerce salesConsumer healthcare continued
2021 performance The COVID-19 pandemic has also accelerated a consumer
Consumer Healthcare turnover in the year of £9,607 million shift towards greater proactivity in managing their health and
decreased 4% AER and was stable at CER reflecting dilution wellness, with research highlighting that 22% of consumers, in
from divestments given the completion of the portfolio the US for example, took more supplements in 2020 than they
rationalisation at the end of Q1 2021. On a two-year CAGR, did in the prior year. Research also uncovered that more than
sales excluding brands divested/under review grew 4% overall, 85% of Centrum consumers favour solutions which are more
despite the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. targeted than a multivitamin. Based on this insight, we launched
tailored solutions that are scientifically blended for Centrum
Sales excluding brands divested/under review decreased 1%
in a number of key markets. In Australia we moved beyond ‘the
AER but increased 4% CER reflecting the underlying strength
multivitamin’ and launched a new Centrum Benefits range with
of brands across the portfolio and categories, and continuing
multi-ingredient combinations in order to cater for consumer
growth in e-commerce. Overall, sales benefited from strong
needs across mind, body and beauty including Mind & Memory,
growth across all categories excluding respiratory health which
Rest & Renew, Immune Defence & Recovery and Collagen
was negatively impacted in Q1 2021 by the historically low cold
Boost & Glow. In China we successfully launched Centrum
and flu season. The decrease in cold and flu sales resulted in an
Dual Probiotics, a proposition that is specially designed to
approximately 1% drag on full-year growth.
appeal to the growing consumer trend around gut health and
International sales excluding brands divested/under review grew the body's self-defence power. In the US, we continued to
high single digit on a CER basis with double digit growth in innovate in new formats by expanding the Centrum Minis and
emerging markets including India, China, the Middle East and Centrum Gummies portfolios, including the launch of Centrum
Africa. Excluding brands divested/under review, US sales grew Organic Multigummies. These innovations help us evolve the
low single digits but European sales were stable on a CER brand from a single multivitamin pill and bring a number of
basis. Both regions were particularly negatively impacted by personalised solutions – all based on trusted science and
the historically low cold and flu season during Q1 2021. informed by clinical data.
See Group financial review on page 65 for more detail We have continued to see an increased interest in our
Emergen-C brand in the US, as consumers continue to look for
Science-based innovation to address unmet ways to support their immune health. Our research revealed that
consumer needs consumers are looking to botanicals, for their natural qualities,
Innovation continues to be a driver of growth. In 2021, we in order to support their wellness goals. We launched a
delivered major innovations based on trusted science and formulation which combines the natural goodness of plant-
human understanding to meet the needs of consumers across based botanicals and all the nutrients from our core Emergen-C
the world. In total, we delivered 26 first-market launches of new formula with antioxidants, B and C vitamins and electrolytes.
innovations, and more than 350 brand-market launches overall. We also continue to invest in locally relevant innovation. In
Our research shows that a third of tooth sensitivity sufferers China, one of our key markets, we launched Contac Multi-
are searching for a trusted, long-lasting solution to address Symptom. This innovation, the biggest OTC launch (by sales)
the cause of the pain, rather than just treat the symptoms. To for our business in China in 2021, provides fast relief from
address this key consumer need, we innovated to develop and multiple cold and flu symptoms. Contac Multi-Symptom
launch Sensodyne Repair and Protect Deep Repair in more comprises three active ingredients in a single pill to relieve
than 25 markets. This is a product scientifically proven to seven cold and flu symptoms: fever, headache, sneezing, runny
provide deep and targeted repair within the dentine tubules – nose, limb pain, sore throat and nasal congestion.
holes in the tissue beneath the tooth enamel that are the source
Investment in digital driving growth
of the pain – while also providing long-lasting protection from
sensitivity. The pandemic has also seen an explosion in digital commerce
and digital engagement. We have been well positioned to
In oral health, we have also expanded our Gum Health expert
capture that digital opportunity.
offering under our paradontax brand in the US. Research shows
a third of people globally suffer from bleeding gums, which may E-commerce sales grew in the mid-20% range in 2021 versus
be a sign of gum disease. Our parodontax Active Gum Repair 2020. Overall, e-commerce represents 8% of total sales.
innovation is clinically proven to help reverse the early signs of We saw good growth in some of our key e-commerce markets
gum disease. It also strengthens the appeal of the brand to including China.
more consumers with gum problems by reinforcing our
We also invested in capabilities around digital media. A
credentials with dental experts.
significant proportion of our total advertising spend is now in
digital media, allowing us to be more efficient and effective in
targeting our consumers.
42 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 43
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consumer healthcare continued
A purpose and culture guiding all we do Running a responsible business
We serve hundreds of millions across the world and, through Having a strong ESG strategy and performance will be a critical
our brands, have a significant effect on their everyday health. expectation our future standalone company. It is an integral part
Our future standalone company will be rooted in a purpose to of how we live our purpose – to deliver better everyday health
deliver better everyday health with humanity. This will guide with humanity – and a key pillar of our strategy. ESG is
everything we do and the choices we make. increasingly important to our stakeholders.
Our success depends on creating the right culture. As a The health of the world affects the health of people. People
consumer healthcare business, it’s clear that what we do can’t enjoy better everyday health in a world where our
matters. environment is under threat and society is increasingly unequal
and divided, with heightened economic inequality manifesting
Our culture starts with always doing the right thing. Acting with
itself in growing health inequalities. The focus of our ESG
integrity is non-negotiable, and that means we can always be
strategy is therefore to tackle the environmental and social
proud of how we operate. Our culture focuses on three
barriers to everyday health.
behaviours:
– Environmental: by tackling carbon emissions and climate
– Go beyond – this is about our hunger and desire, our drive
change, developing more sustainable packaging and using
to be better, to move with pace, and to outperform the
trusted ingredients which are sustainably sourced, we are
competition.
taking steps to create a healthy environment for people to
– Do what matters most – this is about prioritising the live in.
important things and challenging the unnecessary.
– Social: by improving health inclusivity; tackling the bias,
– Keep it human – this is about our dedication to the
discrimination and prejudice which holds people back from
consumers and customers we serve. But, equally important,
everyday health and educating and empowering people
it’s about our dedication and commitment to each other,
towards better, sustainable self-care, we will help create
which demands unmatched understanding and empathy.
a healthy social environment for people to live in.
Building the right culture starts with having a diverse workforce
– Governance: by defining our strategy and governance to
and creating an inclusive environment where colleagues can
reflect increasing stakeholder expectations; supported by the
thrive. We believe that inclusion and diversity (I&D) leads to
appointment of a Board led by Sir Dave Lewis, who brings a
business success by unleashing the enormous potential of all
wealth of international consumer sector experience.
our people and strengthening our ability to respond to the
This year, we have step-changed action on sustainability,
differing needs of our patients and consumers.
including significant investment in on-site solar power as part
Our commitment to accelerate our progress on I&D remains of our goal to source 100% of our electricity from renewable
a priority, including working towards aspirational targets for sources by 2025, committing to make a billion toothpaste tubes
female and ethnically diverse representation in senior roles by recyclable by 2025 and achieving full palm oil derivatives
the end of 2025. accreditation by 2025. Through our Otrivin Actions to Breathe
Cleaner Project, we are campaigning to help children learn
more about air pollution and identify the best way to minimise
our exposure to it. We scaled up our education on this topic
to a broader population through a high profile presence at the
2021 COP26.
In 2022, ahead of becoming a standalone company, we will
continue our work to define our Social Sustainability Strategy
and Governance, reflecting increasing stakeholder
expectations.Stakeholder engagement
Engaging and building trust with a broad range of stakeholders is vital
for our long-term success.
Here, we summarise who our key stakeholders are, how we engage with them, which issues matter most to them and how
we’re responding. To see how we enable the Board and management to understand stakeholders’ views and include them in
decision making, see our section 172 statement on page 116.
Patients and consumers What matters to patients and consumers
Differentiated product innovation based on patient and consumer
Insights from patients and consumers enable us to develop
needs.
products that better meet their needs.
Access to a reliable supply of high-quality products.
How we engage
Pricing of healthcare products, particularly out-of-pocket expenses.
Advisory boards, disease-specific patient panels and Patient Advocacy
What we’re doing
Leaders Summits to provide patient insights.
Strengthening our pipeline of innovative products.
Engagement and support for patient groups (disclosed on GSK.com),
Maintaining high standards for product quality and safety.
and initiatives that empower patients to get involved in medicine
development. Continuing to take a value-based approach to pricing to balance
reward for innovation with access and affordability.
Market research including consumer sensory labs.
Investors What matters to investors
Sustainable performance for long-term shareholder value.
We maintain regular and constructive dialogue with investors to
communicate our strategy and performance in order to promote Understanding how our R&D strategy is successfully developing our
investor confidence and ensure our continued access to capital. pipeline.
Commitment to strong management of ESG issues.
How we engage
Ongoing communications including the AGM, quarterly results calls, What we’re doing
in-person and virtual roadshows and detailed company information Creating two new leading companies through demerger
online. in 2022.
One-to-one meetings between Board members, senior executives and Good financial performance and transparent reporting.
institutional investors. Business and R&D updates and events on key pipeline milestones.
Biennial investors and analysts perception study. Driving leading-edge ESG performance and a culture of ambition,
accountability and responsibility.
Healthcare professionals and medical experts What matters to HCPs and medical experts
We work with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and medical Access to product and scientific information.
experts to understand the patients’ journey, partner to resolve Responsible sales and marketing practices.
unmet medical needs and make sure that our products are used Safety, efficacy and differentiated innovation.
safely and effectively.
What we’re doing
How we engage Increasing the use of digital channels to deliver more personalised and
Scientific dialogue to increase understanding of disease management effective sharing of information to HCPs.
and patient experience. Ensuring we attract and retain the best talent and uphold responsible
Providing high-quality, balanced information about our vaccines and sales and marketing standards.
medicines. Using HCP insights on disease management and patient experience to
Collaborating on clinical trials and research. inform the development of our vaccines and medicines.
R&D partners and academia What matters to R&D partners and academia
Finding the right partner to identify and accelerate a potential vaccine
We partner with scientific institutions, national health systems,
or medicine to reach the patients that need it.
academia and industry partners to help us develop the most
effective vaccines and medicines to meet unmet patient needs. Pushing the science and technology as far as it can go to advance
human health.
How we engage
Dissemination and advancement of scientific knowledge.
Collaborating with outstanding scientists at academic institutions to
accelerate discovery and development of new vaccines and medicines. What we’re doing
Licensing advanced technology and potential vaccines and medicines Working with world-leading experts at biotechs, research institutes
from biotechs. and universities to improve drug and vaccine discovery to increase the
productivity of our R&D pipeline.
Establishing joint ventures to strengthen innovation and improve
efficiency. Collaborating with a broad range of partners to support our R&D focus
on the science of the immune system, human genetics and advanced
technologies (see pages 17 to 27).
Supporting the advancement of scientific knowledge with our
long-standing commitment to sharing research see page 39.
44 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 45
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Stakeholder engagement continued
Governments and regulators What matters to governments and regulators
Investment in innovation and life sciences.
We work with governments and regulators to advocate for policies
that encourage innovation and promote efficient management of Scientific funding and collaboration.
healthcare spending. Medicines pricing and reimbursement.
How we engage Public health threats – COVID-19 and antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
Meeting with regulatory bodies throughout the development process to Investment in preventive health and strengthening health systems.
ensure high-quality new products. What we’re doing
Engaging with government health agencies to demonstrate the value of Engaging in US policy pricing/reimbursement debates and, with
our products for patients and economies. phRMA, commenting on legislative proposals for healthcare reform.
Working with governments to protect and strengthen the operating Partnering across industry and governments to tackle AMR.
environment for life sciences innovation and new medicine and vaccine Engaging with governments, including the US, UK and EU regarding
launches. production and procurement of COVID-19 vaccines and treatments.
Participating in international efforts to address global health threats,
such as the pandemic.
NGOs and multilateral organisations What matters to NGOs and multilateral organisations
Access to vaccines and medicines.
We work with partners to improve access to healthcare services
and our products, and to advocate for the policy environment in UN SDGs and WHO targets for specific disease areas.
which we can be successful and deliver on our ambitions Universal health coverage and the future of health systems.
for patients. Financing for global health, including COVID-19 solutions.
How we engage What we’re doing
Working with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and partners to Focusing on our unique role as a global health partner to develop
research and develop products to address global health challenges. products where we have scientific expertise.
Collaborating with NGOs and generic manufacturers to sustainably Partnering with organisations that have complementary capabilities
supply our products to lower income countries. and reach to create sustainable models that share risk, including our
Partnering to strengthen health systems in lower income countries and partnership with Gavi to support access to vaccines in lower income
drive progress on global health priorities. countries.
Leveraging our community investment programmes to support our
scientific expertise and deliver greater impact for patients.
Suppliers What matters to suppliers
Prompt payment to agreed terms.
We work with thousands of suppliers, large and small, who provide
goods and services that support us in delivering a reliable supply Understanding GSK policies to ensure compliance.
of high-quality, safe products for our patients and consumers. Opportunities to innovate and grow the relationship.
How we engage What we’re doing
Regular direct engagement with suppliers to ensure they support Engaging with suppliers to develop improvement plans and track
GSK’s strategies and targets. progress when we identify areas for improvement.
Engaging with suppliers through our Third-Party Oversight programme Providing proactive support through our third-party EH&S team in
and by conducting in-depth audits. countries where our priority suppliers are located.
Participating in forums such as the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain
Initiative and the Consumer Goods Forum to improve supply chain
sustainability.
Our people What matters to our people
Our purpose and being able to see the difference we make.
We involve and listen to our people to increase employee
engagement, drive business performance and retain talented Having a great line manager.
people. Feeling understood and valued.
How we engage Being part of an inclusive and diverse workplace.
Regular interactive broadcast events with the GLT and other senior What we’re doing
leaders. Fostering a culture of accountability and ambition, underpinned by
Facilitating dialogue and collaboration through our internal integrity and humanity.
communications platforms, Works Councils, Employee Forums and Launched new leadership programmes to help managers motivate,
Employee Resource Groups. focus, care for and develop their teams.
Providing feedback to managers via the global all-company survey and Campaigns and programmes to support safety, mental wellbeing and
One80 questions. enable work-life balance.
Driving our diversity and inclusion activities in support of new
aspirational targets.Risk management
Our risk management and internal control framework is well-embedded,
mature, and continuously reviewed and overseen by the Board.
Identifying, evaluating and managing risk ROCC conducts an annual risk review to assess principal and
Our risk management and internal control framework is well- emerging risks for the company. This review is supported by
embedded and provides the ability for the Board to evaluate and extensive analysis of external trends and insights, senior level
oversee how the company manages principal and emerging risks interviews and recommendations from risk management and
in line with our long-term objectives. We have a company-wide compliance boards and risk owners. ROCC shares this annual
policy that sets out the requirements, roles and responsibilities review with the ARC and Board for assessment and this forms
for the management and governance of risks, controls and the basis for the following year’s risk management focus.
supporting guidance on the essential elements of our internal
Putting risk management plans in place
control framework. We routinely evaluate our framework for
improvements. We define enterprise risk plans that include a description of the
risk, its context, our assessment, risk appetite, how we will treat
Our governance the risk, and the actions businesses need to take in line with our
The Board oversees our risk management system and internal control framework to mitigate the risk. They also enable
establishes our risk appetite, supported by the Audit & Risk our Board committees to assess the effectiveness of our risk
Committee (ARC). The Corporate Responsibility Committee management strategies. This year, along with our annual business
(CRC) and Science Committee further assess the effectiveness risk reports, we continued quarterly reporting of risks to ROCC
of risk management strategies pertinent to their defined remits. and the Board committees, to drive more dynamic, data-driven
Our Risk Oversight & Compliance Council (ROCC) helps the discussions, agile risk management strategies and oversight. We
ARC and CRC to oversee the risks, and the strategies used to report on existing control measures, implementation, emerging
address them. risks, external insights and out-of-tolerance key risk indicators,
where tolerance aligns to risk appetite. We include risks and
Risk management and compliance boards across the Group
mitigations associated with COVID-19.
promote the ‘tone from the top’. They also establish our risk
culture and oversee the effectiveness of risk management Our risk management framework complements our culture and
activities, as well as communicating information about internal Speak Up processes in ensuring that risks are actively and
controls. Our business is accountable for delivering on its effectively identified and mitigated. It also provides reasonable
objectives in line with its established risk appetite. assurance against material misstatement and mitigates potential
losses that could arise in the ordinary course. Each business
An Enterprise Risk Owner is responsible for each principal risk,
monitors its most important risks and takes action to address
with oversight by a GLT member. Risk owners report risk and
issues. Our annual confirmation exercise checks that key risks
mitigation to ROCC, the GLT and the appropriate Board
are well managed, or actions are in place to address gaps, at
committee. Legal and Compliance support these efforts by
each business.
advising on our business strategies, activities, risks and controls,
and Audit & Assurance provides assessments of the adequacy Business continuity planning is embedded in our framework.
and effectiveness of our framework. Our principal risks include controls for responding to problems
within their risk plans. We also have business continuity planning
Considering current and emerging risks for our critical processes, so we can continue business
operations in the event of a crisis.
Our risk assessment process considers the likelihood and
impact of risks, and the timescale over which a risk could occur.
Changes to our risks for 2022
We consider both current and emerging risks that could affect
our ability to achieve our long-term objectives. Emerging risks In our November 2021 annual risk review, the ROCC agreed
are those on the three-year horizon, in line with our viability our principal risks for 2022 which remain largely unchanged,
statement. We also define risks in this way if we need to know with the evolution of Privacy to Data Ethics and Privacy, Non-
more about how likely they are to materialise, or what impact Promotional Engagement to Scientific and Patient Engagement,
they’d have if they did. We will evaluate if additional investigation and Transformation and Separation to Separation. Additionally,
is required before classifying them as principal risks. Risk we agreed that Environmental Sustainability will be managed
management and compliance boards at all levels of the under our ESG areas of focus. Also we identified two new
organisation identify emerging risks on an ongoing basis, and emerging risks, Geopolitical Tensions and Healthcare Reform,
ROCC discusses emerging risks at each meeting. We also scan which will be evaluated during 2022 before being classified as
the risk horizon throughout the year to identify external trends principal risks.
that may be opportunities and/or emerging risks and monitor our The table on the following pages shows our current principal
business activities and internal environment for new, emerging risks and respective trends, assessments and mitigation
and changing risks. activities for the year. These are not in order of significance.
For full risk definitions, potential impact, context and mitigating
Viability statement, see page 53. Risks associated with activities please see Principal risks and uncertainties on
COVID-19, see page 54. ARC report, see page 111. pages 275 to 287.
Internal control framework, see page 112.
46 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 47
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management continued
2021 Principal risks summary
Risk Trend Assessment and mitigation activities
Patient safety The macro risk level is stable but remains challenging. Public awareness of drug safety has increased
following media coverage of the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines and therapies in 2021.
Misinformation and negative characterisations of the industry have fuelled vaccine hesitancy. Highly
publicised information security threats and data breaches require us to consider how we securely
collect safety information from external sources.
GSK’s risk exposure is stable. Our portfolio is evolving, with a greater focus on advanced therapy
medicinal products that may require specialised pharmacovigilance. We need to carefully balance
resources to execute routine pharmacovigilance while we manage change initiatives including the
separation of the Consumer Healthcare business, the accelerated pace of drug development and the
simplification of our safety processes.
Product quality The macro risk has increased following COVID-19, with regulators resuming multiple on-site inspections
to check that product quality expectations are met. There continues to be a focus on data governance
and data integrity requirements, and on evaluation of products for the presence of nitrosamines.
GSK's risk exposure has increased, as we need to respond to the heightened inspectorate presence.
We have launched inspection readiness programmes to ensure full preparedness. We have continued to
invest in technology and digital platforms to further strengthen our controls around good data management
practices. Governance and control strategies have been deployed for timely nitrosamine evaluations. All
these mitigations will require focus and diligence as GSK undergoes significant organisational change.
Financial The external environment remains challenging due to political uncertainty, proposed increases in the
controls obligations of directors and auditors, increasing threats of cyber attacks (information security) and fraud,
and reporting and increasing environmental disclosure requirements.
GSK’s risk exposure has remained stable due to our ongoing focus on the resilience of personnel and
the testing of our internal control framework. We implement optimal risk mitigation through
transformational programmes, technology, centralised processes, and risk and control assessments,
and maintain effective tax and treasury strategies. We continually strengthen our control frameworks
and collaborate with external bodies on standard setting.
Anti-bribery The macro risk level for bribery and corruption remained unchanged in 2021. We continued to see the
and corruption ongoing impact of the pandemic on governments, people and businesses; rigorous anti-bribery and
(ABAC) corruption standards aided by improved technology; and continued enforcement with focus on third-
party intermediaries.
GSK’s risk exposure is unchanged as we continuously improve our Anti Bribery and Corruption
programme to ensure appropriate controls, training, capability building, awareness raising, strong
monitoring and use of data analytics.
Commercial COVID-19 consequences continue to impact the macro level. Competitive pressure has increased in
practices many therapy areas and market segments. Future innovation requires successful launches of key
medicines and products. Vaccination rates have been impacted by accessibility and political issues.
Governments remain focused on initiatives to drive medicine and vaccine costs down for consumers.
GSK’s risk exposure level remains stable due to our mature and robust control environment. We continue
to evolve our commercial practices competitively. We have invested in new technologies that support
virtual customer engagement. We maintain proportionate controls, training and monitoring for employees
that engage with healthcare organisations and professionals. We train senior business leaders on
delivering performance and managing risk.
Non- The macro environment for non-promotional activities and scientific engagement with HCPs and
promotional patients is stable. It continues to be characterised by complex, dynamic disease areas and treatments
engagement with increased patient-centric focus, increasing diversity of engagement platforms, and the continued
increase in virtual engagements since the pandemic.
GSK’s risk exposure has remained stable. Our digital practices continued to develop and modernise, and
we have applied our internal principles and policies, designed to mitigate risk, to this rapidly evolving
environment. We have internal networks to foster collaboration and best practice sharing, as well as the
identification of emerging risks associated with non-promotional activities, so we can conduct them in
compliance with GSK’s values and policies, local laws and regulations.Risk management continued
2021 Principal risks summary continued
Risk Trend Assessment and mitigation activities
Privacy The macro risk continues to increase, with priority GSK markets such as the UK, EU, US, China and
India instituting new privacy laws, and court rulings invalidating established international data transfer
mechanisms that international companies had relied on. The increasing trend for data sovereignty
initially targeting tech companies could affect healthcare companies in their ability to drive medical
innovation and to effectively operate internationally.
GSK’s risk exposure is increasing due to the impact of the unstable privacy regulatory environment
preventing us from further standardising our privacy framework globally and due to the scale of the
changes necessary to prepare for the creation of two new data-driven companies.
Research The macro risk level is unchanged. We always need to continually assess how we do R&D in the context
practices of our future ambition, our benchmarks, and the evolving global regulations and quality standards. This is
particularly vital when expectations change or there are country-specific requirements (Human Genetic
Resources Administration of China, Schrems II).
GSK’s risk exposure is unchanged, as laws and regulations are continually evolving. When regulations
change, the accountable R&D function develops an action plan which can include risk and impact
assessments to determine how the internal control framework needs to change to meet the new
requirements. R&D regularly scans the external environment through membership of professional
organisations and consortiums, attendance at industry or agency-sponsored meetings and review of
publicly posted regulatory/legal reports.
Environment, The macro risk level is unchanged as COVID-19 protocols have been embedded in our ways of
health and working. Site staffing has moved from essential workers only to mostly full staffing. This has meant we
safety have been able to resume more consistent management oversight and on-site global support through
(EHS) senior leaders, subject matter experts and audit teams.
GSK’s risk exposure has levelled out due to consistent work practices related to COVID-19 control
measures. However, organisational change continues to be a factor. We have placed continued focus
on safety leadership training, embedding our Life Saving Rules, and adhering to our EHS standards.
Environmental The macro risk level continues to increase. Investors, regulators and other stakeholders expect
sustainability companies to understand and actively reduce the environmental footprint of their operations across their
value chain, and to mitigate the impacts climate change could have on their operations and supply chains.
GSK’s risk exposure is unchanged. We set ambitious new environmental sustainability goals at the end
of 2020 and have established an enterprise transformation programme addressing climate, water, waste
and biodiversity across our operations. We also increased the scope and depth of our Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) analysis, and continued to monitor trends in physical,
reputational and regulatory risks from climate change impacts.
Information The macro risk level continues to rise, as large multinationals increase their digital footprints and threats
security from hackers become more sophisticated. Risks identified as increasing during the pandemic have
levelled off but continue to be an ongoing threat. At the same time, governments are tightening the
regulatory frameworks, and we can expect enforcement to increase.
GSK’s risk exposure has increased. The targeting of pharmaceutical and vaccine intellectual property,
and of third-party service availability, has intensified. In response, our cyber security programme
continues to improve our controls to increase our cyber threat intelligence capabilities and protect
critical information and systems, including operational technology and networks.
Supply The macro risk level remains high due to the ongoing impact of the pandemic on product supply. There
continuity is also continuing potential for increasing protectionism, and Brexit uncertainty. Our COVID Issues
Management Team is actively managing supply risk and mitigation on an ongoing basis.
GSK’s risk exposure has stabilised. Our Procurement Task Force, a cross-functional group from
Procurement and Supply Chain, is accountable for the identification and management of potential
bottlenecks in the supply of components.
Transformation The macro risk level is unchanged and remains challenging as we set up two new companies in a highly
and separation competitive external labour market.
GSK’s risk exposure level remains unchanged. Our transformation and separation projects have
progressed as planned throughout 2021, with employee engagement remaining a priority.
48 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 49
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management continued
Climate-related financial disclosure
GSK climate-related disclosures are consistent with the – The Programme Steering Team who co-ordinate the
recommendations and recommended disclosures of the Task sustainability programme and associated workstreams and
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and in have oversight for monitoring performance and progress of
compliance with the requirements of LR 9.8.6R (UK listing rules). the enablers to deliver the sustainability programme.
GSK has been reporting on climate-related financial disclosures – The Capital Allocations Board (CAB) which includes the
in accordance with the TCFD recommendations since 2019, CFO and Group Financial Controller who review climate-
with the purpose of building trust and connecting both our related capital expenditure as part of their annual planning
strategic and financial disclosures to climate change. In 2021, and capital allocation process.
we have expanded disclosure by undertaking a more detailed – The Finance Sustainability Network includes leaders from
review of GSK’s manufacturing operations and our inhaler across Finance, Sustainability and Procurement and focuses
portfolio, which is the largest contributor to GSK’s current on key financial enablers to deliver the sustainability
carbon footprint within our portfolio of medicines, vaccines programme.
and consumer products. GSK’s carbon reduction pathway to
become net zero by 2030 can be found here1 on gsk.com. Strategy and Risk Management
We will continue to evolve our future climate-related disclosures Methodology and Assumptions
by building further climate risk assessments into our external Since 2019 we have disclosed long-term risks from climate
supply chain. change across the value chains of key products that account
for approximately 40% of revenue. In 2021, we expanded our
Governance assessments with a focus on risks to our own manufacturing
Environmental sustainability, which includes climate change, operations and we have developed a three-year plan to further
was assessed as a principal risk at GSK in 2021. The Board embed climate-related analysis across significant areas of our
has overall accountability for the management of GSK’s business.
principal risks, with support from the GLT.
We used two climate scenarios based on internationally
The Board-level Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC) recognised data sets2:
oversees the environmental sustainability principal risk and
– business-as-usual (BAU): assuming little to no mitigation
progress against environmental targets with Non-Executive
leading to 3-5°C of warming by 2100.
Director, Lynn Elsenhans as chair. See the CRC report on page
– low-carbon future: assumes that the global temperature
104. Our Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
increase by 2100 is limited to well below 2°C by rapid
helps the CRC to oversee the risks, and the strategies used to
changes in legislation and technology.
address them through quarterly reporting. Refer to page 94 for
further details of the Board and Board committee’s architecture. During 2021, using the enterprise risk plan we carried out
scenario analyses on the risks and opportunities, prioritising
Regis Simard, President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain and
physical and transitional risks and opportunities according to
GLT member has management responsibility for environmental
the likelihood and the magnitude of the potential impact to
sustainability, which includes climate change. He is responsible
GSK’s manufacturing operations and staff.
for governance and oversight of risks and opportunities and
ensures there is an effective framework in place to identify and Each risk and opportunity was analysed and the potential
manage the risks and opportunities across each of our business impact on our profit was classified as either low (<£100 million),
units along with delivering on the commitments made to have a medium (£100 million-£300 million) or high (>£300 million).
net zero impact on climate and a net positive impact on nature by
We consider climate-related issues within the time horizons
2030. Refer to page 46 for the detailed risk management plan.
used in our strategic and capital planning processes: short-term
Established, specialised teams across GSK are working (less than 12 months); medium-term (1-3 years); and long-term
together to deliver our environmental strategies and embed (3-10 years). We have focused on climate risks out to 2030,
them as business as usual including: with no material risks identified as falling into short or medium
term.
– The GSK Sustainability Council chaired by Regis Simard
which includes leaders from business units and global We have tested the resilience of GSK’s climate-related strategy
functions, including manufacturing, R&D, procurement and taking into consideration different scenarios and the risks and
facilities management, ethics and compliance and finance, opportunities identified. As a result, we are continuing to
who all play a key role in delivering our environmental strategy. improve our management of climate-related risks and
The Council is supported by a dedicated Programme Steering opportunities.
Team, which is run by the Global Sustainability Team who also
provide specialist expertise and advice to the business.
1 https://www.gsk.com/media/7180/gsk-carbon-glidepath-010921.pdf
2 Scenarios are based on IPPC Representative Concentration Pathways 2.6,
4.5 and 8.5, the IEA World Energy Outlook 2018 New Policy Scenario,
Current Policy Scenario and Sustainable Development Scenario; and data
sets from WWF and WRI for water stress and flood risk modellingRisk management continued
Risk Management An internal control framework has been established for
A specific and dedicated environmental sustainability enterprise environmental sustainability, including the appointment of
risk management plan has been put in place (for more details dedicated senior leaders for environmental sustainability to
see Risk management on page 46). The risk management plan ensure that governance processes are in place and effective.
covers expectations that GSK is addressing its impact on the
Our performance in reducing carbon emissions, energy and
environment, and that the environment has increasing impacts
water utilisation, and waste will continue to be delivered and
on operational resilience such as access to energy, water
managed by our mature programmes and will be enhanced by
and the natural resources used in products, along with any
including further eco-design considerations into products and
anticipated cost increases from regulatory changes or
packaging.
environmental taxes.
Summary of GSK’s risks and opportunities
Potential
Physical risk/ profit impact/
description Scenario Risk management timeframe Metrics Targets
Increasing levels BAU We have performed water stewardship risk Low: Sites that have Achieve good
of water stress and low assessments for all our manufacturing sites <£100m/ achieved water water stewardship
which reduces the carbon and we have identified ten sites in our current Long: stewardship* at 100% of our
availability of water network that are currently in areas of high-water 3-10 years sites by 2025
Water use in
for our operations. risk.
our operations Reduce overall
GSK uses freshwater We are developing plans for these sites to water use in our
Sites and
as the main source of become water neutral by 2030 and will partner operations by
supplier sites
water to manufacture with other organisations to address shared 20% by 2030
that have
medicines, vaccines, water challenges. We are currently piloting this
achieved water Be water neutral in
and consumer health approach in our Cape Town site working with
neutrality our own
products. partners including WWF and the Water
operations and at
Resilience Coalition.
If water availability was key suppliers in
restricted at a factory The TCFD process has helped us develop a water stressed
then production watch list of additional sites potentially under regions by 2030
operations would be long-term threat and we will monitor changes to
interrupted. the risk levels and update our site water risk
assessments appropriately.
Increasing frequency BAU We have performed risk assessments for our Low: Sites that 100% of sites
of extreme weather and low manufacturing and other operations and have <£100m/ have business have a response
events causing carbon business continuity plans in place which are Long: continuity to extreme
disruption. reviewed annually to respond to the impact of 3-10 years plans weather events
extreme weather events including adopting in their business
Extreme weather
appropriate mitigation plans. continuity plans
events such as
flooding, storms etc The TCFD process has helped us identify a
can result in short-term watch list of sites that are in places where the
interruptions to flood risk is expected to increase over time.
manufacturing and However, the risk from flooding remains very
other operations. low. GSK has a well-established loss
prevention and risk engineering programme to
identify a range of risks that could impact our
sites and where flood risks exist, we have taken
action to mitigate the risk.
An increased number BAU GSK has operations in countries that already Low: Scope 1, 2 Net zero
of very hot days experience very hot temperatures periodically. <£100m/ and 3 carbon emissions across
(>35°C) resulting in We already control the temperature and Long: emissions all operations by
reduced productivity. humidity inside our buildings. As part of our 3-10 years 2030
EHS control framework, sites conduct risk
Extreme heat could Net zero
assessments on very hot days including
result in heat stress emissions across
adaptations for outside work.
affecting our staff. our full value chain
by 2030)
* As defined by the Alliance for Water Stewardship
50 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 51
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management continued
Potential
Transitional risk/ profit impact/
description Scenario How the risk is managed timeframe Metrics Targets
Regulations BAU We have started an R&D programme to find a Medium: Scope 3 Net zero
governing the use of and low lower-impact propellant that could reduce £100m to carbon emissions across
high global warming carbon emissions from our metered dose inhalers by £300m/ emissions all operations by
potential (GWP) about 90%. Long: 2030
substances are being 3-10 years
We already have a portfolio of Dry Powder Net zero
updated in the UK,
Inhaler products that do not use propellants emissions across
EU and US.
that are not impacted by this risk. our full value chain
This could lead to by 2030)
We are monitoring the evolving regulations
increasing cost and
governing the use of fluorinated gases and will
restrictions on the use
review our assessments in future declarations.
of the high GWP
propellant (HFA134a)
in our Metered Dose
Inhaler (MDI) products.
There is uncertainty Low carbon We are transitioning to 100% renewable Low: Scope 1&2 Net zero
over future regulatory electricity by 2025 and are starting to <£100m/ carbon emissions across
policy responses to investigate options for renewable heat Long: emissions all operations by
address climate technology to reduce our carbon emissions 3-10 years 2030
change that countries from energy.
around the world will
Our sales fleet aim to transition to electric
develop including
vehicles by 2030, further reducing our scope 1
carbon pricing.
carbon emissions.
We anticipate that
Shadow carbon pricing has been embedded in
carbon pricing on
the capital investment process at $100 per
operational carbon
tonne and is driving conversations and
emissions will come
decisions around carbon emissions at all levels
into force in some
of the organisation.
regions in the medium
to long term which
could increase our
operating costs.
Potential
profit impact/
Opportunities Scenario How the opportunity is managed timeframe Metrics Targets
At COP26 in BAU and We are reducing our own scope 1 & 2 carbon Low: Scope 1, 2 Net zero
November 2021, low carbon emissions which in turn reduces the scope 3 <£100m/ and 3 carbon emissions across
more than 50 footprint of our customers and suppliers. Long: emissions our full value chain
countries around 3-10 years by 2030
We have started a new Eco-design programme Total waste
the world committed
to reduce the impacts of all our products and and non- Zero operational
to provide low carbon
packaging. circular waste waste, including
healthcare systems.
eliminating
GSK have certified and published the carbon
This could lead to single-use plastics
footprints of our portfolio of respiratory inhalers
increasing demand for by 2030
and have launched our first carbon neutral
low carbon vaccines
inhaler in the UK. This enables healthcare 25%
and medicines.
providers and patients make informed choices. environmental
impact reduction
We have started an R&D programme to find a
for our products
lower-impact propellant that could reduce
and packaging by
emissions from our metered dose inhalers by
2030
about 90%.
10% waste
reduction from
supply chain by
2030Risk management continued
Metrics and targets Details on the progress we are making towards achieving
Our commitment is to have a net zero impact on climate and a our climate targets can be found on page 39. Additional
net positive impact on nature by 2030, across our value chain. background on our climate and also our nature targets, the
Additional details on the targets and carbon reduction glidepath progress we are making and the approaches we are adopting
that contribute to these goals are available on gsk.com. The to meet these targets can be found in the ESG performance
Science Based Targets Initiative has validated that our near- report, and in our public responses to the CDP Climate,
term carbon targets align to a 1.5°C pathway. We are delivering Water and Forest questionnaires.
these goals by acting on priority impact areas and working with From 2022, in order to align our approach to climate and nature
stakeholders across our value chain including our suppliers and targets with the remuneration of our Executive Directors and
customers. We are also working with external partners such as senior executives, we are introducing a 10% ESG target
the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and measure initially into both our short- and long-term remuneration
the UN Water Resilience Coalition. incentive plans. This will include setting and measuring short-
and long-term performance of these participants against our
Nature Net Positive and Climate Net Zero ambitions. For further
details please see our Remuneration report on pages 119 to 152.
Energy and carbon emissions
Carbon emissions1,2
Carbon emissions ‘000 tonnes CO2e 2021 2020 2019
Scope 1 emissions (from energy) 393 415 416
Scope 1 emissions (other3) 288 349 382
Scope 2 emissions (market-based) 159 227 518
Scope 3 emissions4 Available in 2022 report 13,427 14,260
UK Scope 1 & 2 emissions 130 141 195
Energy 2021 2020 2019
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from energy/sales revenue (tonnes COe/£m) 15.1 18.8 27.7
2
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from energy/FTE (tonnes CO e/FTE) 6.1 6.8 9.4
2
Total energy used (GWh) 3,596 3,858 4,079
UK energy used (GWh) 850 945 975
1 Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition). GSK uses
market-based Scope 2 emissions for reporting purposes and reports Scope 3 emissions across all 15 categories in our ESG Performance Report. We ask
external assurance providers, DNV, to provide limited assurance to ISAE 3000 for energy, Scope 1, 2 and selected Scope 3 carbon emission data.
Methodologies for reporting and measurements are provided in our ESG Performance Report, on the KPI definitions page
2 GSK asks DNV to provide limited assurance to ISAE 3000 for energy, Scope 1, 2 and selected Scope 3 carbon emissions, water, waste and wastewater data.
Methodologies for reporting and measurements are provided in our ESG Performance Report, on the KPI definitions pages
3 "Other" refers to emissions from sales force vehicles, propellant emissions released during manufacture of inhalers, on-site waste, or wastewater treatment
and refrigerant gas losses
4 We collect and publish scope 3 data across 15 categories. The most recent scope 3 data available is for 2020 as the process of compiling the 2021 data is
not yet complete. We will publish this data once it becomes available and it will be included in the 2022 ESG Performance Report
52 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 53
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Risk management continued
Viability statement
In accordance with provision 31 of the 2018 revision of the These metrics have been subject to sensitivity analysis, which
Code, GSK has assessed the prospects of the Group over a involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying
longer period than the 12 months required by the ‘Going the forecasts both individually and in combination, along with
Concern’ provision. The Directors confirm that they have a mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or
reasonable expectation that GSK will continue to operate and reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risk.
meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over the next three years. The
The future separation of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
Directors’ assessment has been made with reference to GSK’s
with Pfizer, if approved by the Board and shareholders, is likely
current position and prospects, our strategy, the Board’s risk
to occur within the period covered by the viability assessment.
appetite and GSK’s principal risks and how these are managed,
The Directors have therefore considered the ability of the Group
as detailed on pages 46 to 48 in the strategic report.
to continue in its current form (ie the scenario in which the
The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management demerger does not proceed) for the three-year period ending
policies and approves our governance structure and code of 31 December 2024 as well as the viability of new GSK if the
conduct. It also appraises and approves major financing, demerger proceeds as planned.
investment and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors
The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been
the performance and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus
evaluated:
is largely on improving our long-term financial performance
through delivery of our company and three business strategies Scenario 1: Business performance risks. These include key
and aligned Innovation, Performance and Trust priorities. performance risks, including lower sales from new products;
greater adverse impact from generic competition and other
The Board reviews GSK’s strategy and makes significant capital
competitive launches to other GSK products; as well as
investment decisions over a long-term time horizon, based on a
possible supply and manufacturing challenges.
multi-year assessment of return on capital, the performance of
the company and three business units, and the market Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks. This scenario
opportunity in the pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside
sectors. This approach is aligned to GSK’s model of achieving factors, such as more intense competition, increased pricing
balanced growth by investing in high-quality, innovative pressure in both the US and Europe as well as the potential
products for patients, consumers and healthcare providers. impact of material negative changes in the macro-economic and
However, since many internal and external parameters become healthcare environment.
increasingly unpredictable over longer time horizons, GSK Scenario 3: Principal risks. This scenario includes a severe
focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan on a three-year cycle. The assessment of the potential loss impact from the principal risks
Plan is reviewed at least annually by the Directors, who approve related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain continuity
business forecasts showing expected financial impact. The and environmental sustainability as well as anti-bribery and
Directors believe that a three-year assessment period for the corruption and any consequent regulatory actions or fines, all of
Viability statement is most appropriate as it aligns with the which could fundamentally threaten our operations. These risks
Group’s well established business planning processes that are managed through mitigating activities described on pages
balance the long-term nature of investments in the 275 to 287.
pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer sectors with an
Scenario 4: Put option exercise. This scenario evaluates the
assessment of the period over which analysis of near-term
additional funding requirements assuming the earliest potential
business performance is realistically visible.
exercise of the outstanding put option held by our partner in the
The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational HIV business.
and principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Board’s
Scenario 5: Demerger of the Consumer Healthcare Joint
review on risk. These include potential risks associated with the
Venture (CH). The final scenario focuses on the impact of the CH
ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which have been considered
demerger in early Q3 2022 as well as the downside assessment
within both the Plan and stress test downside scenarios. The
of scenarios 1 to 4 applied to new GSK’s cash flows.
Plan assumes the next several years to be challenging for the
healthcare industry with continued uncertainty related to the The three-year review also makes certain assumptions about
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on adult vaccinations and the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers
continued pressure on pricing of pharmaceuticals. GSK whether additional financing facilities will be required and the
assumes no premature loss of exclusivity for key products over respective level of funding flexibility and headroom.
the period. GSK also expects volume demand for its products
The results of this stress testing show that certain combinations
to increase, particularly for Shingrix, as healthcare systems are
of these hypothetical scenarios could increase funding
expected to return to normal following disruption from
demands on GSK and require mitigating changes to the
governments’ prioritisation of COVID-19 vaccination
Group’s funding strategy. However, in light of the liquidity
programmes and ongoing measures to contain the pandemic.
available to the Group and based on this analysis, the Directors
The downside scenarios consider GSK’s cash flows, have a reasonable expectation that, even under these most
sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance provision severe stress tests, the Group with or without demerger will be
and recovery as well as other key financial ratios over the period. able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall
due over the three-year period of assessment.Risk management continued
Risks associated with COVID-19
The potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on GSK’s We continue to remain confident in the underlying demand
trading performance and all our principal risks has been for our vaccines and are encouraged by the rate at which
assessed with mitigation plans put in place. In 2021, as COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters are being administered in
anticipated, the pandemic impacted Group performance many countries, which provides support for healthcare systems
primarily in demand for vaccines and reflected the prioritisation and the eventual return to normal. This continues to be a dynamic
of COVID-19 vaccination programmes by governments, situation, with the future severity, duration and impact unknown
including social distancing rules resulting from COVID-19 that at this point including potential impacts on trading results, clinical
affected customers’ ability and willingness to access vaccination trials, supply continuity, and our employees. The situation could
services across all regions. change at any time and there can be no assurance that the
COVID-19 pandemic will not have a material adverse impact
on the future results of the Group.
Non-financial information statement
The following aligns to the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB
of the Companies Act 2006.
Description of the business model Human rights Policy, due diligence and outcomes
The value we create 01 Ethics and values 38 Summary of our principal risks 47
Data and engagement 39 Principal risks and uncertainties 275
Social matters Third parties 38 Viability statement 53
Global health 35 Audit & Risk Committee report 111
Health security 35 Anti-corruption and bribery
Affordability and availability 36 Ethics and values 38 Non-financial key performance
Reporting and investigating concerns 38 indicators
Employees Anti-bribery and corruption 47 Key performance indicators 12
Employee engagement 37
Diversity 37 Environmental matters Our policies
Wellbeing and development 37 Carbon, water and waste 39 All of our public policies, codes and
Gender pay gap 37 Climate-related financial disclosure 49 standards are available on gsk.com
Ethics and values 38
Board diversity 83
Employees by gender
Male Female Total
Board 8 5 13
Management* 10,148 9,553 19,701
All employees 47,751 42,345 90,096
* Senior managers as defined in the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013
54 GSK Annual Report 2021Group
financial
review
In this section
Reporting framework 56
Our approach to tax 60
Financial performance 61
Adjusting items 70
Cash generation and conversion 73
Financial position and resources 74
Treasury policies 79
Critical accounting policies 80
GSK Annual Report 2021 55
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationGroup financial review
Reporting framework
Total and Adjusted results Costs for all other ordinary course smaller scale restructuring
The Group financial review discusses the operating and and legal charges and expenses are retained within both Total
financial performance of the Group, its cash flows and financial and Adjusted results.
position and our resources. The results for each year are As Adjusted results include the benefits of Major restructuring
compared primarily with the results of the preceding year. programmes but exclude significant costs (such as amortisation
of intangible assets except for computer software and
Total results
capitalised development costs, significant legal, major
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall
restructuring and transaction items), they should
performance.
not be regarded as a complete picture of the Group’s financial
GSK also uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to performance, which is presented in its Total results. The
report the performance of its business. Adjusted results and exclusion of other Adjusting items may result in Adjusted
other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, earnings being materially higher or lower than Total earnings.
but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented In particular, when significant impairments, restructuring
in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results are defined below charges and legal costs are excluded, Adjusted earnings
and other non-IFRS measures are defined on page 59. will be higher than Total earnings.
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered together GSK is undertaking a number of Major restructuring
with Total results, provide investors, analysts and other programmes in response to significant changes in the Group’s
stakeholders with helpful complementary information to trading environment or overall strategy, or following material
understand better the financial performance and position acquisitions. Costs, both cash and non-cash, of these
of the Group from period to period, and allow the Group’s programmes are provided for as individual elements
performance to be more easily compared against the majority are approved and meet the accounting recognition criteria.
of its peer companies. These measures are also used by As a result, charges may be incurred over a number of years
management for planning and reporting purposes. They may following the initiation of a Major restructuring programme.
not be directly comparable with similarly described measures
Significant legal charges and expenses are those arising from
used by other companies.
the settlement of litigation or government investigations that
GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any are not in the normal course and are materially larger than more
single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports, regularly occurring individual matters. They also include certain
including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety. major legacy matters.
Adjusted results Reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results, providing
Adjusted results exclude the following items from Total results, further information on the key Adjusting items for 2020 and
together with the tax effects of all of these items: 2021 are set out on page 70 and for the five years to 2021 are
set out on pages 263 to 268.
– amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer software
and capitalised development costs) GSK provides earnings guidance to the investor community on
the basis of Adjusted results. This is in line with peer companies
– impairment of intangible assets (excluding computer
and expectations of the investor community, supporting easier
software) and goodwill
comparison of the Group’s performance with its peers. GSK is
– Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of not able to give guidance for Total results as it cannot reliably
tangible assets and computer software, (under specific forecast certain material elements of the Total results,
Board approved programmes that are structural, of a particularly the future fair value movements on contingent
significant scale and where the costs of individual or related consideration and put options that can and have given rise to
projects exceed £25 million) including integration costs significant adjustments driven by external factors such as
following material acquisitions currency and other movements in capital markets.
– transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related
to significant acquisitions
– proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products
and businesses; significant settlement income; significant
legal charges (net of insurance recoveries) and expenses on
the settlement of litigation and government investigations;
other operating income other than royalty income, and other
items including the impact of the revaluation of deferred tax
assets and liabilities following enactment of the increase in
the headline rate of UK corporation tax from 19% to 25%
(effective 2023)
– separation costs include costs to establish Consumer
Healthcare as an independent business, as well as admission
listing and demerger costs
56 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 57
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Reporting framework continued
Historical record of Adjusting items
The reconciliations between Total and Adjusted operating profit over the last five years can be summarised as follows:
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m £m £m
Total operating profit 6,201 7,783 6,961 5,483 4,087
Intangible asset amortisation 802 775 777 580 591
Intangible asset impairment 322 263 83 116 688
Major restructuring 626 1,532 1,105 809 1,056
Transaction-related items 1,159 1,308 345 1,977 1,599
Divestments, significant legal and other items (618) (2,823) (299) (220) (119)
Separation costs 314 68 – – –
US tax reform – – – – 666
Adjusted operating profit 8,806 8,906 8,972 8,745 8,568
The analysis of the impact of transaction-related items on operating profit for each of the last five years is as follows:
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
£m £m £m £m £m
Novartis Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option – – – 658 986
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare JV (including Shionogi preferential dividends) 1,026 1,114 31 1,188 556
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential dividends 48 (52) (234) (58) (126)
Contingent consideration on former Novartis Vaccines business 27 172 76 58 101
Release of fair value uplift on acquired Pfizer inventory – 91 366 – –
Other adjustments 58 (17) 106 131 82
Transaction-related items 1,159 1,308 345 1,977 1,599
Full reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results for 2017–2021 are set out on pages 266 to 268. Further explanations on
the Adjusting items for 2021 are reported on page 70.
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare Acquisition-related arrangements
Trading profit allocations As consideration for the acquisition of Shionogi’s interest in the
former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, Shionogi
Because ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100%
received the 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare and ViiV
of its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after tax)
Healthcare also agreed to pay additional future cash
are included within the Group income statement and then a
consideration to Shionogi, contingent on the future sales
portion of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling
performance of the products being developed by that joint
interests owned by the other shareholders, in line with their
venture, dolutegravir and cabotegravir. Under IFRS 3 `Business
respective equity shareholdings (Pfizer 11.7% and Shionogi
combinations’, GSK was required to provide for the estimated
10%). Each of the shareholders, including GSK, is also entitled
fair value of this contingent consideration at the time of
to preferential dividends determined by the performance of
acquisition and is required to update the liability to the latest
certain products that each shareholder contributed. As the
estimate of fair value at each subsequent period end. The
relative performance of these products changes over time, the
liability for the contingent consideration recognised in the
proportion of the overall earnings allocated to each shareholder
balance sheet at the date of acquisition was £659 million.
also changes. In particular, the increasing proportion of sales of
Subsequent re-measurements are reflected within other
dolutegravir and cabotegravir-containing products has a
operating income/(expense) and within Adjusting items in the
favourable impact on the proportion of the preferential dividends
income statement in each period.
that is allocated to GSK. Adjusting items are allocated to
shareholders based on their equity interests. GSK was entitled Cash payments to settle the contingent consideration are
to approximately 86% of the Total earnings and 83% of the made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each quarter, based on
Adjusted earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2021. the actual sales performance and other income of the relevant
Remeasurements of the liabilities for the preferential dividends products in the previous quarter. These payments reduce the
allocated to Pfizer and Shionogi are included within other balance sheet liability and hence are not recorded in the income
operating income/(expense). statement. The cash payments made to Shionogi by ViiV
Healthcare in 2021 were £826 million.
Because the liability is required to be recorded at the fair value
of estimated future payments, there is a significant timing
difference between the charges that are recorded in the Total
income statement to reflect movements in the fair value of the
liability and the actual cash payments made to settle the liability.Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
The cash payments are reflected in the cash flow statement However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Shionogi that it had
partly in operating cash flows and partly within investing irrevocably given up this right and accordingly recognised the
activities. The tax relief on these payments is reflected in the liability for the put option on the Group’s balance sheet during
Group’s Adjusting items as part of the tax charge. The part Q1 2016 at an initial value of £926 million. In Q4 2016,
of each payment relating to the original estimate of the fair Shionogi irrevocably agreed to waive its put option and as a
value of the contingent consideration on the acquisition of the result GSK de-recognised the liability for this put option on
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of £659 million the Group’s balance sheet directly to equity. The value of the
is reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement liability was £1,244 million when it was de-recognised.
and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the
GSK also has a call option over Shionogi’s shareholding in
liability since the acquisition is reported within operating cash
ViiV Healthcare, which under the original agreements was
flows.
exercisable in six-month windows commencing in 2027, 2030
Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi and 2032. GSK has now irrevocably agreed to waive the first
were as follows: two exercise windows, but the last six-month window in 2032
2021 2020 remains. As this call option is at fair value, it has no value for
£m £m accounting purposes.
Contingent consideration at beginning of the year 5,359 5,103
Remeasurement through income statement 1,026 1,114 Settlement with Gilead Sciences Inc. (Gilead)
Cash payments: operating cash flows (721) (751) On 1 February 2022, ViiV Healthcare reached agreement with
Cash payments: investing activities (105) (107) Gilead to settle the global patent infringement litigation relating
Contingent consideration at end of the year 5,559 5,359 to the commercialisation of Gilead’s Biktarvy. Under the terms
of the global settlement and licensing agreement, Gilead made
Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis)
an upfront payment of $1.25 billion to ViiV Healthcare which
to Shionogi at 31 December 2021, £937 million (31 December
was received on 15 February 2022. In addition, Gilead will also
2020 – £745 million) is expected to be paid within one year.
pay a 3% royalty on all future US sales of Biktarvy and in
Exit rights respect of the bictegravir component of any other future
bictegravir-containing products sold in the US. These royalties
Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if
will be payable by Gilead to ViiV Healthcare from 1 February
either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not
2022 until the expiry of ViiV Healthcare’s US Patent No.
completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to
8,129,385 on 5 October 2027. Gilead’s obligation to pay
acquire its shareholding. Under the original agreements, GSK
royalties does not extend into any period of regulatory paediatric
had the unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent
exclusivity, if awarded. The settlement resulted in a
distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the
re-measurement of the existing liabilities for contingent
exercise of the Pfizer put option and, as a result, in accordance
consideration and the Pfizer put option at the 2021 year end.
with IFRS, GSK did not recognise a liability for the put option
on its balance sheet. However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified The impact of the settlement with Gilead on the contingent
Pfizer that it had irrevocably given up this right and accordingly consideration liability (CCL) is to increase it by £288 million,
recognised the liability for the put option on the Group’s balance on a post-tax basis in Q4 2021 due to the obligation ViiV
sheet during Q1 2016 at an initial value of £1,070 million. Healthcare has to pay future cash consideration to Shionogi for
Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of Q1 2016 its share of the upfront and of the future US sales performance
GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential of Biktarvy and products containing bictegravir. Including the
dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi impact of the settlement at 31 December 2021, the liability
on the Group’s balance sheet. which is discounted at 8% stood at £5,559 million, on a
post-tax basis.
The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizer’s
shareholding are as follows: Pfizer has the right to require GSK to acquire its shareholding
in ViiV Healthcare in certain circumstances at any time. A put
2021 2020
£m £m option liability is therefore recorded on the Group’s balance
Pfizer put option 1,008 960 sheet as a current liability. It is measured on the gross
Pfizer preferential dividend – 1 redemption basis derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV
Healthcare business.
Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have
The impact of the settlement on the Pfizer put option liability
requested GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare
is an increase of £114 million and is included in the
in six-month windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022.
re-measurement at 31 December 2021.
GSK had the unconditional right, so long as it made no
See page 251 for an explanation of the post balance sheet
subsequent distribution to its shareholders, to withhold its
event impact.
consent to the exercise of the Shionogi put option and, as a
result, GSK did not recognise a liability for the put option on
its balance sheet.
58 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 59
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Reporting framework continued
Free cash flow 2 year Compound Annual Growth Rate
Free cash flow is defined as the net cash inflow from operating CAGR is defined as the compound annual growth rate and
activities less capital expenditure on property, plant and shows the annualised average rate of pro-forma revenue growth
equipment and intangible assets, contingent consideration between two given years, assuming growth takes place at an
payments, net finance costs, and dividends paid to non- exponentially compounded rate. For Consumer Healthcare,
controlling interests plus proceeds from the sale of property, the 2 year revenue CAGR has been presented showing the
plant and equipment and intangible assets, and dividends annualised average rate of pro-forma revenue growth between
received from joint ventures and associates. It is used by 2019 and 2021.
management for planning and reporting purposes and in
discussions with and presentations to investment analysts COVID-19 solutions
and rating agencies. Free cash flow growth is calculated COVID-19 solutions include the sales of pandemic adjuvant
on a reported basis. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from and other COVID-19 solutions including vaccine manufacturing
operations to free cash flow is set out on page 73. and Xevudy and the associated costs but does not include
reinvestment in R&D. This categorisation is used by
CER and AER growth
management and we believe is helpful to investors through
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s providing clarity on the results of the Group by showing the
practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange contribution to growth from COVID-19 solutions.
rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if
the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas General Medicines
companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those General medicines are usually prescribed in the primary
used in the comparative period. CER% represents growth care or community settings by general healthcare practitioners.
at constant exchange rates. £% or AER% represents growth For GSK, this includes medicines in inhaled respiratory,
at actual exchange rates. dermatology, antibiotics and other diseases.
Return on capital employed
Specialty Medicines
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before
Specialty medicines are typically prescription medicines used
taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
to treat complex or rare chronic conditions. For GSK, this
comprises medicines in infectious diseases, HIV, oncology,
Net debt
immunology and respiratory.
Please see Note 29 ‘Net Debt’ for the calculation of net debt.Group financial review continued
Our approach to tax
Business makes a major contribution to the public purse We seek to maintain open and constructive relationships with
through its tax contribution. This includes direct taxes (such tax authorities worldwide, meeting regularly to discuss our tax
as corporate income tax) and indirect taxes (such as VAT and affairs and real time business updates wherever possible.
customs duties) as well as other taxes (such as employment
We also monitor government debate on tax policy in our key
taxes and property taxes). It is therefore important that
jurisdictions so that we can understand and share an informed
companies explain their approach to tax. This helps inform
point of view regarding any potential future changes in tax law.
dialogue about tax and tax policy.
Where relevant, we provide pragmatic and constructive
We are supportive of efforts to ensure companies are business input to tax policy makers either directly or through
appropriately transparent about how their tax affairs are industry trade bodies, advocating reform to support economic
managed. As part of that, our Tax Strategy is set out in growth and job creation as well as the needs of our patients
detail within the Public policies section of our website. and other key stakeholders.
We support the exchange of country-by-country reporting In 2021, the Group corporate tax charge was £346 million
(CBCR) data between tax authorities as, validated against (2020 – £580 million) on profits before tax of £5,442 million
existing information held on taxpayers, it will support their ability (2020 – £6,968 million) representing an effective tax rate of
to ensure multinational groups pay the right amount of tax in the 6.4% (2020 – 8.3%). We made cash tax payments of £1,291
right places. million in the year (2020 – £1,655 million). In addition to the
taxes we pay on our profits, we pay duties, levies, transactional
As a global healthcare company, we have a substantial business
and employment taxes.
and employment presence in many countries around the world
and pay a significant amount of tax. This includes corporate Our Adjusted tax rate for 2021 was 17.5% (2020 – 16.0%).
income tax and other business taxes, and tax associated with The rate has benefited from the closure of open issues with tax
our employees. We also collect a significant amount of tax on authorities in various jurisdictions. Following separation of the
behalf of governments along our supply chain, including from Consumer business and subject to any material changes in our
our employees. product mix, or other material changes in tax regulations or laws
in the countries in which we operate, the Group’s average
We are subject to taxation throughout our supply chain. The
effective Adjusted tax rate in the medium term is expected to be
worldwide nature of our operations means that our cross-border
around 16%.
supply routes, necessary to ensure supplies of medicines into
numerous countries, can result in conflicting claims from tax The Group’s Total tax rate for 2021 of 6.4% (2020 – 8.3%) was
authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual countries. lower than the Adjusted tax rate mainly due to enactment of an
This can lead to double taxation (with profits taxed in more than increase in the UK corporate income tax rate from 19% to 25%
one country). resulting in an increase in the value of balance sheet tax assets.
Due to the magnitude, GSK has reported this credit as an
Profits are recognised in territories by reference to the activities
Adjusting item in 2021 so that it does not obscure the key
performed there and the value they generate. To ensure the
trends in the Group’s performance for the period.
profits recognised in jurisdictions are aligned to the activity
undertaken there, and in line with current OECD guidelines, we The OECD and the EU continue to develop new policies which
base our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s length principle and will not only lead to a substantially increased tax compliance
support our transfer prices with economic analysis and reports. burden but may, in the case of the OECD’s project to ‘Address
the Tax Challenges of Digitalisation’, fundamentally change the
We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements – those without
international corporate tax landscape and therefore the tax
business or commercial substance. We do not seek to avoid tax
profiles of multinational companies, including GSK, by: (i)
by the use of ‘tax havens’ or transactions we would not fully
reallocating countries’ taxing rights for the largest and most
disclose to a tax authority. We have a zero-tolerance approach
profitable multinationals; and (ii) set a new minimum global
to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion.
corporate tax rate of 15%. This project achieved political
Tax risk in all countries in which we operate is managed through consensus during 2021, with a plan for effective implementation
robust internal policies, processes, training and compliance in 2023. However, the detailed rules are still under discussion
programmes. Our Board of Directors and the Audit & Risk and it is not therefore possible to accurately forecast the impact
Committee are responsible for approving our tax policies and for GSK at this stage.
risk management arrangements as part of our wider internal
Further details about our corporate tax charges for the year are
control framework.
set out in Note 14.
60 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 61
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial performance
Group turnover (£bn) The Total results of the Group are set out below.
£34.1bn AER growth CER growth 2021 2020 Growth
0% 5% % of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 34,114 100 34,099 100 – 5
Cost of sales (11,603) (34.0) (11,704) (34.3) (1) 2
2019 33.8 Selling, general and
administration (10,975) (32.1) (11,456) (33.6) (4) –
2020 34.1 Research and
development (5,278) (15.5) (5,098) (15.0) 4 7
2021 34.1 Royalty income 419 1.2 318 0.9 32 32
Other operating 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
(expenses)/income (476) (1.4) 1,624 4.8
Operating profit 6,201 18.2 7,783 22.8 (20) (9)
Net finance costs (756) (848)
Total operating profit (£bn) Share of after-tax
profits of associates
£6.2bn AER growth CER growth and joint ventures 33 33
(20)% (9)% Loss on disposal
of interest in
associates (36) –
Profit before taxation 5,442 6,968 (22) (10)
2019 7.0
Taxation (346) (580)
Profit after taxation
2020 7.8
for the year 5,096 6,388 (20) (9)
2021 6.2 Profit attributable to
shareholders 4,385 5,749
0 2 4 6 8 10 Earnings per share (p) 87.6p 115.5 (24) (13)
Earnings per ADS
(US$) 2.42 2.98
Adjusted operating profit (£bn) The Adjusted results for the Group are set out below.
Reconciliations between Total results and Adjusted results for
£8.8bn AER growth CER growth 2021 and 2020 are set out on page 70.
(1)% 9%
2021 2020 Growth
% of % of
2019 9.0 £m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 34,114 100 34,099 100 – 5
2020 8.9 Cost of sales (10,726) (31.4) (10,191) (29.9) 5 8
Selling,
2021 8.8 general and
administration (10,225) (30.0) (10,717) (31.4) (5) (1)
0 2 4 6 8 10
Research and
development (4,776) (14.0) (4,603) (13.5) 4 8
GSK uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report
Royalty
the performance of its business. Adjusted results and other income 419 1.2 318 0.9 32 32
non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not Adjusted
as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in operating
accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS profit 8,806 25.8 8,906 26.1 (1) 9
measures are defined on pages 56 and 59. Adjusted
profit
attributable
to shareholders 5,665 5,769 (2) 9
Adjusted
earnings
per share (p) 113.2p 115.9 (2) 9Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Pharmaceuticals
Group turnover
Pharmaceuticals turnover in the year was £17,729 million, up
Group turnover by business 4% AER, 10% CER. Sales of Xevudy, the monoclonal antibody
treatment for COVID-19 of £958 million contributed
2021 2020 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% approximately 6 percentage points to Pharmaceuticals growth.
Pharmaceuticals 17,729 17,056 4 10 HIV sales were down 2% AER but up 3% CER, to £4,777
Vaccines 6,778 6,982 (3) 2 million, with growth in Dovato and Juluca partly offset by Tivicay
Consumer Healthcare 9,607 10,033 (4) – and Triumeq. Respiratory sales were up 21% AER, 28% CER,
34,114 34,071 – 5 to £2,863 million, on growth of Trelegy and Nucala. Oncology
Corporate and other and Immuno-inflammation therapy areas each continued to
unallocated turnover – 28 show strong double-digit sales growth. Sales of Established
34,114 34,099 – 5 Pharmaceuticals decreased 11% AER, 6% CER to £7,757
million.
Group turnover by geographic region
In the US, sales grew 13% AER, 21% CER including sales of
2021 2020 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% Xevudy, which contributed approximately 9 percentage points to
US 15,093 14,556 4 10 total growth. Continued strong performance of Trelegy, Nucala,
Europe 7,838 8,164 (4) (2) Benlysta and Dovato also drove growth of New and Specialty
products in the Region. Established Products were stable at
International 11,183 11,379 (2) 4
AER but grew 6% CER, reflecting strong demand for
34,114 34,099 – 5
Established Respiratory products in the COVID-19 environment
Group turnover was £34,114 million in the year, stable at AER
and certain supply challenges faced by generic competitor
but up 5% CER. Sales of COVID-19 solutions contributed
products, plus the benefit of favourable prior period RAR
approximately 4 percentage points to growth in the year.
adjustments.
In Europe, sales decreased 4% AER, 2% CER, with decreases
Pharmaceuticals in the Established Pharmaceuticals portfolio, impacted by
generic competition including Seretide, Duodart and Volibris,
Turnover (£bn) lower antibiotic demand, and the divestment of cephalosporin
products at the start of the fourth quarter. The decrease was
£17.7bn AER growth CER growth partly offset by strong growth of Trelegy, Benlysta and
4% 10% Oncology products, and of Dovato which more than doubled in
the year. Sales of Xevudy totalling £69 million also contributed
52% of Group turnover
approximately 2 percentage points to total growth.
International sales decreased 3% AER but grew 4% CER.
2019 17.6 Decreases in Established Pharmaceuticals reflected the impact
of COVID-19 suppressed antibiotics markets and increased
2020 17.1
generic competition in the first half of the year. This was offset
2021 17.7 by strong growth in Respiratory, Dovato, Tivicay tenders, and
sales of Xevudy, which added approximately 6 percentage
0 5 10 15 20
points to International total growth.
Pharmaceuticals turnover
2020
2021 (revised*) Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Respiratory 2,863 2,360 21 28
HIV 4,777 4,876 (2) 3
Immuno-inflammation 885 727 22 29
Oncology 489 372 31 37
Pandemic 958 – – –
New and Specialty 9,972 8,335 20 26
Established Pharmaceuticals 7,757 8,721 (11) (6)
17,729 17,056 4 10
* G SK has reviewed the presentation of its pharmaceuticals products and from 1 January
2021 has moved sales of Arnuity Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta and Relvar/Breo Ellipta from the
Respiratory therapeutic area to the Established Pharmaceuticals therapeutic area.
Comparative information has been revised onto a consistent basis.
62 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 63
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial performance continued
Respiratory Immuno-inflammation
Total Respiratory sales were up 21% AER, 28% CER, with Immuno-inflammation sales of £885 million grew 22% AER,
sales of Trelegy and Nucala each exceeding £1 billion per year 29% CER with Benlysta sales up 22% AER, 29% CER to
for the first time. International Respiratory sales grew 33% AER, £874 million, benefitting from lupus nephritis launches in US
42% CER including Nucala up 23% AER, 34% CER, and and Japan in H2 2020.
Trelegy up 81% AER, 92% CER including the impact of the
Trelegy asthma launch in Japan in Q4 2020. In Europe, Oncology
Respiratory grew 11% AER, 13% CER with double digit CER Sales of Zejula, the PARP inhibitor treatment for ovarian cancer
growth of Trelegy and Nucala. In the US, Respiratory grew 23% were £395 million, up 17% AER, 22% CER, impacted by
AER, 30% CER, driven by continued strong performance of ongoing lower diagnosis rates due to the COVID-19 pandemic,
Trelegy and Nucala. particularly in the US. Sales included £212 million in the US and
Sales of Nucala were £1,142 million in the year and grew 15% £163 million in Europe.
AER, 22% CER, with consistent, strong growth across all three Blenrep for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory
regions. US sales were up 15% AER, 23% CER to £690 multiple myeloma was approved and launched in the US and
million and International sales of £195 million grew 23% AER, Europe in Q3 2020, with ongoing launches throughout Europe
34% CER. Europe sales of £257 million grew 8% AER, 11% in 2021. Blenrep sales globally totalled £89 million.
CER.
Pandemic sales
Trelegy sales were up 49% AER, 57% CER to £1,217 million
driven by growth in all regions. In the US, sales continue to grow Sales of Xevudy were £958 million in the year, reflecting the
strongly including benefit of the asthma indication approved and ongoing fulfilment of contracts across the world and most
launched in Q3 2020, with sales up 52% AER, 62% CER. In significantly in the US, which reported sales of £602 million.
Europe, sales grew 19% AER, 21% CER and in International, International recorded sales of £287 million and Europe £69
where Trelegy for asthma was approved in Japan in Q4 2020, million.
sales grew 81% AER, 92% CER to £163 million.
Established Pharmaceuticals
HIV Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals in the year were £7,757
HIV sales were £4,777 million a decrease of 2% AER but million, down 11% AER, 6% CER.
growth of 3% CER for the year. Triumeq sales were £1,882 Established Respiratory products decreased 7% AER, 2%
million, down 18% AER, 14% CER and Tivicay sales were CER to £4,327 million. This includes the impact of generic
£1,381 million, down 10% AER, 4% CER. The mature portfolio competition to Xyzal in Japan, and to Advair/Seretide globally.
resulted in less than 1 percentage point of CER sales decrease. The decrease was partially offset by approximately 6
New HIV products Juluca, Dovato, Rukobia and Cabenuva percentage points impact on growth of favourable prior period
delivered sales of £1,387 million representing 29% of the total RAR adjustments.
HIV portfolio (18% in 2020). Sales of the two drug regimens The remainder of the Established Pharmaceuticals portfolio
Juluca and Dovato were £517 million and £787 million, decreased by 16% AER, 11% CER to £3,430 million on lower
respectively, with combined growth of 50% AER, 58% CER. demand for antibiotics during the COVID-19 pandemic period,
Rukobia sales were £45 million. Cabenuva, the first long acting the divestment of GSK’s cephalosporin products at the start of
injectable, recorded £38 million of sales for the full year. the fourth quarter, and the impact of government mandated
In the US, total sales were £2,898 million with a decrease of changes increasing use of generics in markets including France,
4% AER, but growth of 3% CER. New HIV products delivered Japan and China.
sales of £896 million, including: Dovato £428 million with
growth of 87% AER, 99% CER, Juluca £393 million with
growth of 2% AER, 8% CER, Rukobia £43 million and
Cabenuva £32 million. Combined Tivicay and Triumeq sales
were £1,953 million declining 16% AER, 11% CER. In Europe,
total sales were £1,194 million with a decrease of 2% AER,
but growth of 1% CER. New HIV products delivered sales of
£420 million, including: Dovato sales of £302 million, which
more than doubled at AER and CER, and Juluca £111 million
with growth of 14% AER, 18% CER. Combined Tivicay and
Triumeq sales were £738 million declining 21% AER, 19%
CER. International continued to grow strongly with total sales of
£685 million, with growth of 4% AER, 11% CER, driven by the
Tivicay tender business and new HIV products.Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Influenza
Vaccines
Fluarix/FluLaval sales decreased 7% AER, 2% CER, to £679
million as a result of unfavourable prior period RAR movements
Turnover (£bn)
in the US, partially offset by higher volume in the US and strong
£6.8bn AER growth CER growth southern hemisphere demand in International.
(3)% 2%
Shingles
20% of Group turnover
Shingrix decreased 13% AER, 9% CER to £1,721 million,
primarily driven by lower demand in the US and International for
routine adult vaccination due to COVID-19 vaccination
2019 7.2
programme deployment and disease circulation. In Europe,
2020 7.0 sales growth was driven by Germany and launches in the UK,
Spain and Italy. Shingrix was sold in 17 countries, including 9
2021 6.8
markets launched during 2021.
0 2 4 6 8 10
Established Vaccines
Vaccines turnover Hepatitis vaccines sales were down 20% AER, 16% CER to
£460 million, adversely impacted by de-prioritisation of routine
2021 2020 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% US adult vaccination, increased Hepatitis B vaccine competition
Meningitis 961 1,029 (7) (2) and unfavourable CDC stockpile movements in the US, and by
Influenza 679 733 (7) (2) COVID-19 related travel restrictions in Europe and International.
Shingles 1,721 1,989 (13) (9)
Sales of DTPa-containing vaccines (Infanrix, Pediarix and
Established Vaccines 2,970 3,231 (8) (4)
Boostrix) decreased 4% AER but grew 1% CER. Infanrix/
6,331 6,982 (9) (5)
Pediarix sales decreased 14% AER, 9% CER to £543 million,
Pandemic Vaccines 447 – – –
reflecting lower tender volume in Europe and International as
6,778 6,982 (3) 2
well as a change in recommendation for the dosing schedule in
Germany, partly offset by increased demand in the US. Boostrix
Vaccines turnover in the year decreased 3% at AER, but grew
sales grew 9% AER, 14% CER to £521 million, largely driven
2% CER to £6,778 million, primarily driven by pandemic
by demand recovery and tender volumes in International, as well
adjuvant sales, partially offset by lower demand for routine adult
as higher demand and share in the US.
vaccination due to COVID-19 vaccination programme
deployment and disease circulation across regions, resulting in Rotarix sales were down 3% AER but up 1% CER to £541
lower Shingrix and Hepatitis vaccines sales. Unfavourable US million, reflecting demand recovery in International.
prior period RAR adjustments reduced overall Vaccines growth Synflorix sales decreased by 11% AER, 8% CER to £357
by approximately 2 percentage points, particularly in Fluarix/ million, primarily due to lower tender demand in Emerging
FluLaval and Shingrix where the impact on product growth was markets.
a decrease of 7% and a decrease of 2% respectively.
MMRV vaccines sales were stable at AER but grew 4% CER to
Vaccines turnover excluding pandemic vaccines decreased 9% £260 million, largely driven by higher demand in International.
AER, 5% CER to £6,331 million.
Pandemic Vaccines
Meningitis
Pandemic vaccines sales of £447 million included £444 million
Meningitis sales decreased 7% AER, 2% CER to £961 million of pandemic adjuvant sales to the US and Canadian
driven primarily by unrepeated International tender volumes for governments.
other meningitis vaccines. Bexsero sales were stable at AER,
but grew 5% CER to £650 million, reflecting increased market
share in the US.
Menveo sales were up 3% AER, 9% CER to £272 million,
primarily driven by 2020 cohort catch-up vaccinations and 2021
higher demand, as well as increased market share in the US.
64 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 65
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial performance continued
Oral health
Consumer Healthcare
Oral health sales decreased 1% AER, but grew 5% CER to
£2,732 million. Sensodyne delivered high single digit growth
Turnover (£bn)
reflecting underlying brand strength, continued innovation and
AER growth CER growth strong growth across key markets including the US, China, India
£9.6bn
(4)% 0% and Japan. Gum health also delivered broad based high single
digit growth across key markets. Denture care grew low single
28% of Group turnover digits driven partly by a return to growth in Q4 2021.
Pain relief
2019 9.0
Pain relief sales increased 3% AER, 7% CER to £2,276 million.
2020 10.0 Panadol, which benefitted from seasonal demand in the last
quarter, grew double digits. Voltaren grew mid-single digits,
2021 9.6 offsetting the expected short-term decrease in the second half
of the year in the US after the introduction of private label
0 2 4 6 8 10
competition earlier in 2021. Excedrin delivered growth of over
Consumer Healthcare turnover 40% versus a prior year decrease reflecting supply
improvements.
2021 2020 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Vitamins, minerals and supplements
Oral health 2,732 2,753 (1) 5
Pain relief 2,276 2,219 3 7 Vitamins, minerals and supplements sales were stable at AER
Vitamins, minerals and supplements 1,512 1,506 – 4 but grew 4% CER to £1,512 million building on the significant
(19% CER) growth in 2020. Centrum grew mid-teens percent
Respiratory health 1,133 1,209 (6) (1)
driven by successful innovation, improved supply capacity in the
Digestive health and other 1,803 1,824 (1) 4
US and continued consumer focus on health and wellness.
9,456 9,511 (1) 4
Caltrate grew mid-single digits and Emergen-C decreased
Brands divested/under review 151 522 (71) (69)
high-single digits reflecting a particularly challenging 2020
9,607 10,033 (4) –
comparator due to unprecedented demand during the early
stages of the pandemic.
2021 2020 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% Respiratory health
US 3,179 3,408 (7) (1)
Respiratory health sales decreased 6% AER, 1% CER to
Europe 2,468 2,619 (6) (3)
£1,133 million. In Q4 2021, cold and flu sales rebounded
International 3,960 4,006 (1) 4
strongly and were above 2019 levels in Europe and slightly
9,607 10,033 (4) –
below 2019 levels in the US. For the full year, cold and flu
Consumer Healthcare turnover in the year of £9,607 million products were down mid-single digits as the H2 2021 rebound
decreased 4% AER and was stable at CER reflecting dilution was insufficient to offset the considerable decrease in the first
from divestments given the completion of the portfolio quarter of 2021 which resulted from historically low demand for
rationalisation at the end of Q1 2021. On a two-year CAGR cold and flu products, effectively halving the global market in the
sales excluding brands divested under review grew 4% overall period. Allergy products grew mid-single digits.
despite the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Digestive health and other
Sales excluding brands divested/under review decreased 1%
AER but increased 4% CER reflecting the underlying strength Digestive health and other brands sales decreased 1% AER
of brands across the portfolio and categories and continuing but grew 4% CER to £1,803 million. Digestive health brands
growth in e-commerce. Overall, sales benefited from strong were up high-single digits with particularly strong growth in
growth across all categories excluding Respiratory health which Tums and Eno. Skin health and Smoker’s health brands were
was negatively impacted in Q1 2021 by the historically low cold up mid-single digits, offset partly by a decrease in small,
and flu season. The decrease in cold and flu sales resulted in an non-strategic brands.
approximately 1% drag on full year growth.
International sales excluding brands divested/under review grew
high single digit on a CER basis with double digit growth in
emerging markets including India, China, the Middle East and
Africa. Excluding brands divested/under review, US sales grew
low single digits but European sales were stable on a CER
basis. Both regions were particularly negatively impacted by the
historically low cold and flu season during Q1 2021.Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Cost of sales Research and development
2021 2020 Growth Growth 2021 2020 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% £m £m £% CER%
Total cost of sales (11,603) (11,704) (1) 2 Total research and development (5,278) (5,098) 4 7
Adjusted cost of sales (10,726) (10,191) 5 8 Adjusted research and development (4,776) (4,603) 4 8
Total cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 34.0%, 0.3 Total R&D expenditure was £5,278 million (15.5% of turnover),
percentage points lower at AER and 1.1 percentage points up 4% AER, 7% CER, including an increase in impairments
lower in CER terms compared with 2020. This primarily partly offset by a decrease in major restructuring charges.
reflected lower write-downs in a number of manufacturing sites Adjusted R&D expenditure was £4,776 million (14.0% of
and the unwind in 2020 of the fair market value uplift on turnover), 4% higher at AER, 8% higher at CER than in 2020.
inventory arising on completion of the Consumer Healthcare
Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure was £3,578 million (20.2%
Joint Venture with Pfizer.
of turnover), stable at AER, up 4% CER, primarily driven by
Excluding these and other Adjusting items, Adjusted cost of increased investment in our Specialty portfolios, including the
sales as a percentage of turnover was 31.4%, 1.6 percentage early stage research projects. Efficiency savings continued from
points higher at AER and 0.8 percentage points higher at CER the implementation of the One R&D programme for
compared with 2020. This primarily reflected higher pandemic Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines as part of the Separation
sales (Xevudy) as well as higher supply chain costs in Vaccines preparation restructuring programme.
resulting from lower demand and higher inventory adjustments
The growth of the Specialty portfolio in 2021 was primarily
and higher commodity and freight costs in Consumer
driven by our two programmes for COVID-19 treatment (Xevudy
Healthcare, partly offset by price benefits in Pharmaceuticals,
and otilimab) along with the other otilimab programme for
including the benefit from prior period RAR adjustments, a
rheumatoid arthritis, bepirovirsen, our HBV antisense
further contribution from restructuring savings across all three
oligonucleotide and depemokimab, our anti-IL5 for asthma. This
businesses and favourable mix in Vaccines.
has been partly offset by reduced spend on daprodustat due to
Selling, general and administration the completion of programmes. In Oncology, there is continued
investment reflecting our commitment to synthetic lethality and
2021 2020 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% in Blenrep, together with bintrafusp alfa, where we have
Total selling, general and accelerated close-out costs for the programme but this has
administration (10,975) (11,456) (4) – been largely offset by a reduction in spend on feladilimab
Adjusted selling, general and following the decision to terminate the programme in April.
administration (10,225) (10,717) (5) (1)
R&D expenditure in Vaccines was £887 million (13.1% of
Total SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 32.2%,
turnover), up 29% AER, 34% CER, reflecting increased
1.4 percentage points lower at AER and 1.8 percentage points
investment in clinical programmes for meningitis and RSV and
lower at CER compared with 2020. This included increased
investment in our mRNA platform, partly offset by efficiency
separation costs partly offset by lower restructuring charges.
savings from the implementation of the One Development
Excluding Adjusting items, Adjusted SG&A costs as a programme and variable spending as a result of COVID-19
percentage of turnover were 30.0%, 1.5 percentage points lockdowns. R&D expenditure in Consumer Healthcare was
lower at AER than in 2020 and 1.8 percentage points lower on £249 million.
a CER basis. Adjusted SG&A costs decreased 5% AER, 1%
CER which reflected the tight control of ongoing costs and Royalty income
reduced variable spending across all three businesses as a Royalty income was £419 million (2020 – £318 million), up
result of the COVID-19 lockdowns, and the continuing benefit 32% AER, 32% CER, primarily driven by higher sales of
of restructuring in Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare and Gardasil.
support functions. The decrease also reflected a favourable
legal settlement in 2021 compared to increased legal costs in
2020 as well as one-off benefits in pensions and insurance
which were partly offset by the one-off benefit from
restructuring of post-retirement benefits in 2020. This was
partly offset by increased investment behind launches in HIV
and Vaccines.
66 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 67
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial performance continued
Other operating income/(expense) Contingent consideration cash payments which are made to
Net other operating expenses of £476 million (2020 – Shionogi and other companies reduce the balance sheet liability
£1,624 million income) primarily reflected accounting charges and hence are not recorded in the income statement.
of £1,101 million (2020 – £1,234 million) arising from the Total contingent consideration cash payments in 2021
re-measurement of the contingent consideration liabilities amounted to £856 million (2020 – £885 million). This included
related to the acquisitions of the former Shionogi-ViiV cash payments made to Shionogi of £826 million (2020 –
Healthcare joint venture and the former Novartis Vaccines £858 million).
business and the liabilities for the Pfizer put option and Pfizer
and Shionogi preferential dividends in ViiV Healthcare. This Adjusted operating profit by business
included a re-measurement charge of £1,026 million (2020 –
Pharmaceuticals operating profit was £4,681 million, up 12%
£1,114 million) for the contingent consideration liability due
AER, 24% CER on a turnover increase of 10% CER. The
to Shionogi, as a result of the unwinding of the discount for
operating margin of 26.4% was 1.9 percentage points higher at
£380 million and a charge for £646 million primarily from
AER than in 2020 and 3.3 percentage points higher on a CER
adjustments to sales forecasts and the settlement with Gilead
basis. This primarily reflected price benefits in Pharmaceuticals,
(see page 58). This was partly offset by a number of asset
including the benefit from a prior period RAR adjustment,
disposals including the disposal of royalty rights on
reduced supply chain costs, the tight control of ongoing costs,
cabozantinib, the disposal of the cephalosporin business and
short term benefits to changes in ways of working, a favourable
disposal of a number of Consumer Healthcare brands and fair legal settlement in 2021 compared to increased legal costs in
value uplifts on investments. 2020 included the net profit on
2020 and the continuing benefit of restructuring. This was partly
disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands
offset by support to launches in HIV and increased investment
of £2,815 million, partly offset by the related loss on sale of the
in R&D.
shares in Hindustan Unilever of £476 million.
Vaccines operating profit was £2,256 million, down 17% AER,
Operating profit 11% CER on 2% turnover increase at CER. The operating
margin of 33.3% was 5.6 percentage points lower at AER than
Total operating profit was £6,201 million compared with
in 2020 and 4.8 percentage points lower on a CER basis. This
£7,783 million in 2020. This primarily reflected an unfavourable
was primarily driven by higher supply chain costs resulting from
comparison to the net profit on disposal in Q2 2020 of Horlicks
higher inventory adjustments and lower demand, along with
and other Consumer brands and resultant sale of shares in
higher R&D spend to support key strategic priorities and
Hindustan Unilever. This was partly offset by lower major
increased SG&A investment to support business growth, partly
restructuring costs, lower re-measurement charges on the
offset by higher royalty income and pandemic adjuvant
contingent consideration liabilities and the unwind in 2020 of
beneficial mix.
the fair market value uplift on inventory arising on completion of
the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with Pfizer. Consumer Healthcare operating profit was £2,239 million, up
1% AER, 9% CER on stable turnover at CER. The operating
Excluding these and other Adjusting items, Adjusted operating
margin of 23.3% was 1.2 percentage points higher at AER and
profit was £8,806 million, 1% lower than 2020 at AER, but 9%
2.0 percentage points higher on a CER basis than in 2020. This
higher at CER on a turnover increase of 5% CER. The Adjusted
primarily reflected sales growth of continuing brands, price
operating margin of 25.8% was 0.3 percentage points lower at
increases and favourable mix, synergy delivery from the Pfizer
AER, 0.9 percentage points higher on a CER basis than in
Joint Venture Integration and tight cost control, partially offset by
2020.
the impact of divestments (1.2 percentage points), increased
The increase in Adjusted operating profit primarily reflected the advertising and promotion investment, increased commodity
benefit from incremental pandemic sales (Xevudy and adjuvant) and freight costs and investment in manufacturing sites.
contributing approximately 6% AER, 7% CER to Adjusted
Operating profit growth. Adjusted Operating profit also
benefited from sales growth in Pharmaceuticals including the
benefit from prior period RAR adjustments and tight control of
ongoing costs including reduced promotional and variable
spending across all three businesses as a result of the
COVID-19 lockdowns, favourable legal settlements compared
to increased legal costs in 2020 and benefits from continued
restructuring across the business. This was partly offset by
lower sales in Vaccines, primarily Shingrix, higher supply chain
costs in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, divestments in
Consumer Healthcare and increased investment in R&D across
Vaccines and Pharmaceuticals.Group financial review continued
Financial performance continued
Net finance costs The charge of £346 million represented an effective tax rate on
Total results of 6.4% (2020 – 8.3%) and reflected the different
2021 2020
Finance income £m £m tax effects of the various Adjusting items, including a credit of
Interest and other income 26 39 £397 million resulting from the revaluation of deferred tax
Fair value movements 2 5 assets following enactment of an increase in the headline rate of
28 44 UK corporation tax (effective 1 April 2023). 2020 reflected the
disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer brands and the
Finance expense subsequent disposal of shares received in Hindustan Unilever.
Interest expense (746) (822) Tax on Adjusted profit amounted to £1,415 million and
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (2) (3) represented an effective Adjusted tax rate of 17.5% (2020 –
Remeasurements and fair value movements – (4) 16.0%).
Finance expense on lease liabilities (31) (40)
Issues related to taxation are described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’ in
Other finance expense (5) (23)
the Annual Report 2021. The Group continues to believe it has
(784) (892)
made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from
Total net finance costs were £756 million compared with periods which are open and not yet agreed by tax authorities.
£848 million in 2020. Adjusted net finance costs were The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
£753 million compared with £844 million in 2020. The provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements
decrease is primarily as a result of reduced interest expense with relevant tax authorities.
from lower debt levels, favourable movements in foreign
exchange rates, a premium paid on the early repayment and Non-controlling interests
refinancing of bond debt in 2020 and reduced interest on tax The allocation of Total earnings to non-controlling interests
partly offset by lower interest income on overseas cash post- amounted to £711 million (2020 – £639 million). The increase
closing of the divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer was primarily due to an increased allocation of Consumer
Healthcare nutrition products in India and a number of other Healthcare Joint Venture profits of £460 million (2020 –
countries. £374 million) and an increased allocation of ViiV Healthcare
profits of £196 million (2020 – £223 million), including reduced
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint credits for re-measurement of contingent consideration liabilities.
ventures
The allocation of Adjusted earnings to non-controlling interests
The share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures amounted to £1,006 million (2020 – £1,031 million). The
was £33 million (2020 – £33 million). reduction in allocation primarily reflected a reduced allocation
of ViiV Healthcare profits of £438 million (2020 – £474 million),
Loss on disposal of interests in associates
partly offset by higher net profits in some of the Group’s other
The net loss on disposal of interests in associates was entities with non-controlling interests. The allocation of Consumer
£36 million, primarily driven by a loss on disposal of our Healthcare Joint Venture profits was £515 million (2020 – £515
interest in the associate Innoviva Inc. million).
Profit before tax Earnings per share
Taking account of net finance costs, the share of profits of Total EPS was 87.6p compared with 115.5p in 2020. This
associates and loss on disposal of interest in associates, profit primarily reflected an unfavourable comparison to the net
before taxation was £5,442 million compared with £6,968 profit on disposal in Q2 2020 of Horlicks and other Consumer
million in 2020. brands partly offset by the related loss on sale of the shares in
Hindustan Unilever, partly offset by a credit of £397 million to
Taxation Taxation in 2021 resulting from the revaluation of deferred tax
assets following enactment of an increase in the headline rate
2021 2020 of UK corporation tax (effective 1 April 2023), lower major
£m £m
restructuring costs and lower remeasurement charges on the
UK current year charge 132 30
contingent consideration liabilities.
Rest of world current year charge 1,044 1,177
Charge in respect of prior periods 172 66 Adjusted EPS was 113.2p compared with 115.9p in 2020,
Total current taxation 1,348 1,273 down 2% AER but up 9% CER, on a 9% CER increase in
Total deferred taxation (1,002) (693) Adjusted operating profit primarily reflecting incremental
Taxation on total profits 346 580 pandemic sales, sales increases in Pharmaceuticals, tight cost
control and favourable legal settlements and lower interest
costs, partly offset by lower sales in Vaccines, primarily
Shingrix, higher supply chain costs in Vaccines, increased R&D
investment and a higher effective tax rate. The contribution to
growth from COVID-19 solutions was approximately 8% AER,
9% CER.
68 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 69
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial performance continued
Dividends Reflecting these factors, in 2022 for new GSK we expect sales to
The Board has declared four interim dividends resulting in a total grow between 5% to 7% at CER and Adjusted operating profit to
dividend for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend declared grow between 12% to 14% at CER as compared with 2021. This
for 2020. See note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’. includes the future benefit in royalty income from the settlement
and license agreement with Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead)
Dividend policy announced on 1 February 2022.
On 23 June 2021, at the new GSK Investor Update, GSK set out In June 2021, GSK announced that it expected new GSK to
that from 2022 a progressive dividend policy will be implemented. deliver sales growth and adjusted operating profit growth of more
The dividend policy, the total expected cash distribution, and the than 5% and more than 10%, respectively, CAGR at constant
respective dividend pay-out ratios for new GSK and new exchange rates over the five year period 2021-2026 (with 2021
Consumer Healthcare remain unchanged. as the base year). These financial outlooks exclude any
contribution from COVID-19 related revenues. New GSK
GSK expects to declare a 27p per share dividend payable by the
expects to improve adjusted operating margin from the mid-20s%
current group for the first half. This comprises 22 pence per share
in 2021 to over 30% by 2026 and cash generated from
for new GSK and 5 pence per share representing Consumer
operations is expected to exceed £10 billion by 2026. By 2031,
Healthcare during the first half whilst part of the group. For the
new GSK aims to deliver sales of more than £33 billion (at
second half of 2022, new GSK continues to expect to declare a
constant exchange rates).
22p per share dividend. As previously communicated, new GSK
would expect to declare a dividend of 45 pence per share for Medium term outlooks were provided for Consumer Healthcare
2023. at a Capital Markets Day scheduled for 28 February 2022. Until
such time as the formal criteria for treating Consumer Healthcare
Following separation, the dividend policy for the new Consumer
as a ‘Discontinued operation’ have been satisfied (currently
Healthcare company will be the responsibility of its Board of
expected in Q2 2022), GSK will continue to present the
Directors and is expected to be guided by a 30 to 50 per cent
Consumer Healthcare business within ‘Continuing operations’
pay-out ratio. On this basis, we now expect a second-half
and will consolidate the business for reporting purposes until the
dividend from the new Consumer Healthcare company equivalent
demerger has completed.
to a payout of around 3 pence per share, subject to its Board’s
decisions on the intra-year phasing of dividend payments. This In 2022, based on known binding agreements from governments
expected distribution per share for the second half of the year has we expect that COVID-19 solutions will contribute a similar sales
been adjusted from that highlighted at the GSK Investor Update level to 2021, but a substantially reduced profit contribution due
in June 2021 to reflect the total number of shares (up to circa to the increased proportion of lower margin Xevudy sales. We
9.25 billion shares) in the new Consumer Healthcare company expect this to reduce new GSK Adjusted Operating profit growth
that are expected to be in issue upon demerger. In June 2021 the (including COVID-19 solutions in both years) by between 5% to
planning assumption for the Investor Update reflected only the 7%. We continue to discuss further opportunities with
GSK shares in issue at that time (circa 5 billion shares). governments.
In aggregate, this would represent on the full year 2022 basis
the equivalent of a Group dividend of around 52p per share.
Dividends payable by Consumer Healthcare will only be
receivable by shareholders who remain invested in Consumer
Healthcare post-separation and at the appropriate record dates.
Guidance and Outlook
In 2022 we expect to continue to deliver on our strategic
priorities. We plan to increase targeted investment in R&D, to
build on and invest behind our top line momentum for key growth
drivers and to deliver the demerger of our Consumer Healthcare
business in mid-year. Assuming global economies and healthcare
systems approach normality as the year progresses, we expect
sales of Specialty Medicines to grow approximately 10% at CER
and sales of General Medicines to show a slight decrease,
primarily reflecting increased genericisation of established
Respiratory products. Vaccines sales are expected to grow at a
low teens percentage at CER for the year as a whole. However,
governments’ prioritisation of COVID-19 vaccination programmes
and ongoing measures to contain the pandemic are expected to
result in some continued disruption to adult immunisations, with
the impact weighted to the first half. For Shingrix, despite the
potential for short-term pandemic disruption, we continue to
expect strong double-digit growth and record annual sales based
on strong demand in existing markets and geographical
expansion.Group financial review continued
Adjusting items
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Separation Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items costs results
31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,114 34,114
Cost of sales (11,603) 701 (33) 154 28 27 (10,726)
Gross profit 22,511 701 (33) 154 28 27 23,388
Selling, general and administration (10,975) 426 25 17 282 (10,225)
Research and development (5,278) 101 355 46 (4,776)
Royalty income 419 419
Other operating (expense)/income (476) 1,106 (662) 32 –
Operating profit 6,201 802 322 626 1,159 (618) 314 8,806
Net finance costs (756) 2 1 (753)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates (36) 36 –
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 5,442 802 322 628 1,159 (581) 314 8,086
Taxation (346) (159) (81) (114) (196) (470) (49) (1,415)
Tax rate 6.4% 17.5%
Profit after taxation 5,096 643 241 514 963 (1,051) 265 6,671
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 711 295 1,006
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,385 643 241 514 668 (1,051) 265 5,665
Earnings per share 87.6p 12.9p 4.8p 10.3p 13.3p (21.0)p 5.3p 113.2p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 5,003 5,003
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Separation Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items costs results
31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,099 34,099
Cost of sales (11,704) 699 31 667 116 (10,191)
Gross profit 22,395 699 31 667 116 23,908
Selling, general and administration (11,456) 1 18 659 (23) 16 68 (10,717)
Research and development (5,098) 75 214 206 (4,603)
Royalty income 318 318
Other operating (expense)/income 1,624 1,215 (2,839) –
Operating profit 7,783 775 263 1,532 1,308 (2,823) 68 8,906
Net finance costs (848) 2 2 (844)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 6,968 775 263 1,534 1,308 (2,821) 68 8,095
Taxation (580) (150) (47) (292) (229) 17 (14) (1,295)
Tax rate 8.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 6,388 625 216 1,242 1,079 (2,804) 54 6,800
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 639 392 1,031
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,749 625 216 1,242 687 (2,804) 54 5,769
Earnings per share 115.5p 12.6p 4.4p 25.0p 13.8p (56.5)p 1.1p 115.9p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,976 4,976
70 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 71
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Adjusting items continued
Major restructuring and integration Total cash payments made in 2021 were £753 million (2020
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated – £737 million), £434 million (2020 – £152 million) relating to
manufacturing operations and supply chains and long life the Separation Preparation restructuring programme, a further
cycle of the business mean that restructuring programmes, £176 million (2020 – £291 million) relating to the Consumer
particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme, £95 million
manufacturing or R&D sites are likely to take several years (2020 – £179 million) under the 2018 major restructuring
to complete. programme including the settlement of certain charges accrued
in previous quarters and £48 million (2020 – £115 million) for
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific
the existing Combined restructuring and integration programme.
Board-approved Major restructuring programmes and are
excluded from Adjusted results. Major restructuring The analysis of Major restructuring charges by business was as
programmes, including integration costs following material follows:
acquisitions, are those that are structural and are of a significant
2021 2020
scale where the costs of individual or related projects exceed £m £m
£25 million. Other ordinary course smaller-scale restructuring Pharmaceuticals 233 671
costs are retained within Total and Adjusted results. Vaccines (40) 214
Consumer Healthcare 196 374
Total Major restructuring charges incurred in 2021 were
389 1,259
£626 million (2020 – £1,532 million), analysed as follows:
Corporate and central functions 237 273
2021 2020
Total Major restructuring charges 626 1,532
Non- Non-
Cash cash Total Cash cash Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m The analysis of Major restructuring charges by income
2018 major statement line was as follows:
restructuring
programme 2021 2020
(incl. Tesaro) 18 9 27 105 210 315 £m £m
Cost of sales 154 667
Consumer
Selling, general and administration 426 659
Healthcare Joint
Venture integration Research and development 46 206
programme 173 11 184 298 28 326 Other operating income/(expense) - –
Separation Total Major restructuring charges 626 1,532
Preparation
restructuring The benefit in the year from restructuring programmes was
programme 371 59 430 625 216 841 £0.7 billion, the benefit from the Separation Preparation
Combined restructuring programme was £0.3 billion, the benefit from the
restructuring Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration was £0.2 billion
and integration and the benefit from the 2018 Restructuring programme was
programme 8 (23) (15) 39 11 50
£0.2 billion.
570 56 626 1,067 465 1,532
The 2018 major restructuring programme, including Tesaro,
Cash charges of £371 million under the Separation Preparation
has cost £1.5 billion to the end of 2021, with cash costs of
programme primarily arose from restructuring of some
£0.6 billion and non-cash costs of £0.9 billion, and has
administrative and central manufacturing functions as well as
delivered annual savings of around £0.5 billion by the end of
commercial pharmaceuticals and R&D functions. The non-cash
2021 (at 2019 rates). These savings were fully re-invested to
charges of £59 million primarily reflected write-down of assets
help fund targeted increases in R&D and commercial support
in administrative locations and R&D sites. of new products. The programme is substantially complete and
Cash charges of £173 million on the Consumer Healthcare therefore GSK will cease external reporting of total costs and
Joint Venture programme primarily related to severance and benefits of the 2018 major restructuring programme from 2022
integration costs. The non-cash credit in the Combined onwards.
restructuring and integration programme primarily reflected a
The completion of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with
write back on disposal of a site.
Pfizer has realised substantial cost synergies and has largely
delivered the expected total annual cost savings of £0.5 billion
by 2021. The cash costs are expected to be £0.7 billion and
non-cash charges expected to be £0.1 billion, plus additional
capital expenditure of £0.2 billion. Up to 25% of the cost
savings are intended to be reinvested in the business to
support innovation and other growth opportunities.Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
The Group initiated in Q1 2020 a two-year Separation The £1,026 million charge relating to the contingent
Preparation programme to prepare for the separation of GSK consideration for the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint
into two companies: new GSK, a biopharma company with an venture represented an increase in the valuation of the
R&D approach focused on science related to the immune contingent consideration due to Shionogi, as a result of the
system, the use of genetics and new technologies, and a new unwind of the discount for £380 million and a charge of £646
leader in Consumer Healthcare. The programme aims to: million primarily from adjustments to sales forecasts and the
settlement with Gilead as well as updated exchange rate
– Drive a common approach to R&D with improved capital
assumptions. The £48 million charge relating to the ViiV
allocation
Healthcare put option and Pfizer preferential dividends
– Align and improve the capabilities and efficiency of global
represented an increase in the valuation of the put option as a
support functions to support new GSK
result of the settlement with Gilead, offset by lower cash and
– Further optimise the supply chain and product portfolio, updated exchange rate assumptions.
including the divestment of non-core assets.
The ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is fair
– A strategic review of prescription dermatology is underway valued under IFRS. The potential impact of the COVID-19
– Prepare Consumer Healthcare to operate as a standalone pandemic remains uncertain and at 31 December 2021, it has
company been assumed that there will be no significant impact on the
long-term value of the liability. This position remains under
The programme continues to target delivery of £0.8 billion of
review and the amount of the liability will be updated in future
annual savings by 2022 and £1.0 billion by 2023, with total
quarters as further information on the impact of the pandemic
costs estimated at £2.4 billion, of which £1.6 billion is expected
becomes available. An explanation of the accounting for the
to be cash costs. The proceeds of divestments have largely
non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on
covered the cash costs of the programme.
page 57.
Transaction-related adjustments
Divestments, significant legal charges and other items
Transaction-related adjustments resulted in a net charge of
Divestments and other items also included gains from a number
£1,159 million (2020 – £1,308 million). This included a net
of asset disposals, including the disposal of royalty rights on
£1,101 million accounting charge for the re-measurement of the
cabozantinib, disposal of the cephalosporins business and
contingent consideration liabilities related to the acquisitions of
disposal of a number of Consumer Healthcare brands, fair value
the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the former
gains on investments and certain other Adjusting items,
Novartis Vaccines business and the liabilities for the Pfizer put
including the impact of the enactment of the increase in the
option and Pfizer and Shionogi preferential dividends in ViiV
headline rate of UK Corporate tax as discussed on page 189.
Healthcare.
The Consumer Healthcare brands disposal programme is
2021 2020
Charge/(credit) £m £m complete and has delivered net proceeds of £1.1 billion. In
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV 2021 the net loss on disposal of interests in associates was
Healthcare Joint Venture (including Shionogi £36 million, primarily driven by a loss on disposal of the interest
preferential dividends) 1,026 1,114 in the associate Innoviva Inc. A charge of £26 million (2020:
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential £7 million) was recorded for significant legal matters arising in
dividends 48 (52)
the period. Significant legal cash payments were £5 million
Contingent consideration on former Novartis
(2020 – £9 million). Included within Divestments, significant
Vaccines business 27 172
legal and other items, is a deferred tax credit of £157 million
Release of fair value uplift on acquired Pfizer
inventory – 91 arising on the transfer of intellectual property within the group
Other adjustments 58 (17) during the quarter. This deferred tax credit arises due to
Total transaction-related charges 1,159 1,308 differences between group value and the market value of the
assets transferred.
Separation costs
From Q2 2020, the Group started to report additional costs to
prepare for establishment of the Consumer Healthcare
business as an independent entity (“Separation costs”). Total
Separation costs incurred in 2021 were £314 million (2020
– £68 million). This includes £38 million relating to transaction
costs including preparatory admission costs (costs relating to
achieve a listing).
Total separation costs are estimated to be £600-700 million,
excluding transaction costs.
72 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 73
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Cash generation and conversion
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out Reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating
below. activities to free cash flow
2021 2020 A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities,
£m £m which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure to free cash flow,
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,952 8,441
is shown below.
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities (1,777) 2,161
2021 2020
Net cash outflow from financing activities (7,589) (10,132) £m £m
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,414) 470 Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,952 8,441
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,262 4,831 Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,172) (1,226)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,414) 470 Purchase of intangible assets (1,759) (1,013)
Exchange adjustments (29) (39) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 143 68
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,819 5,262 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 772 1,255
Interest paid (786) (864)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Interest received 27 39
Cash and cash equivalents 4,274 6,292
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 9 31 Overdrafts (455) (1,030)
Contingent consideration paid (reported in
3,819 5,262
investing activities) (114) (120)
Contribution from non-controlling interests 7 3
Capital expenditure and financial investment
Distributions to non-controlling interests (642) (1,208)
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets
Free cash flow 4,437 5,406
amounted to £2,931 million (2020 – £2,239 million) and
disposals realised £898 million (2020 – £1,582 million).
Future cash flow
Cash payments to acquire equity investments amounted to
Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from
£162 million (2020 –£411 million), primarily relating to
operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt
Vir Biotechnology, and sales of equity investments realised
servicing costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations £202 million (2020 – £3,269 million).
under existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from
restructuring programmes and other routine outflows including
Free cash flow
tax, pension contributions and dividends, subject to the
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the Group
‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ discussed on pages 275
after meeting our obligations for contingent consideration,
to 287. We may from time to time have additional demands for
interest, tax and dividends paid to non-controlling interests,
finance, such as for acquisitions, including potentially acquiring
and after capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment
increased ownership interests in the ViiV Healthcare business
and intangible assets.
where a minority shareholder hold put options. We have access
2021 2020 to multiple sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital
£m £m
markets and financial institutions for such needs, in addition to
Free cash inflow 4,437 5,406
the cash flow from operations.
Total cash payments to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV
Healthcare contingent consideration liability in the year were Investment appraisal and capital allocation
£826 million (2020 – £858 million), of which £721 million We have a strong framework for capital allocation, including
was recognised in cash flows from operating activities and a board to govern the allocation of capital between our
£105 million was recognised in contingent consideration paid businesses. We utilise a consistent cash return on invested
within investing cash flows. These payments are deductible for capital (CROIC) methodology to prioritise investment across
tax purposes. the Group as a whole, so that we can more effectively compare
the returns from each of the businesses as we allocate capital
between them. We also consider the impact on EPS and our
credit profile where relevant.Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources
Property, plant and equipment
2021 2020
£m £m Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
Assets regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
Non-current assets financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our
Property, plant and equipment 9,932 10,176 property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption to
Right of use assets 740 830 production and to ensure compliance with regulatory standards.
Goodwill 10,552 10,597 A number of our processes use hazardous materials.
Other intangible assets 30,079 29,824
The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at 31
Investments in associates and joint ventures 88 364
December 2021 was £20,778 million, with a net book value of
Other investments 2,126 3,060
£9,932 million. Of this, land and buildings represented £3,667
Deferred tax assets 5,218 4,287
million, plant and equipment £4,558 million and assets in
Derivative financial instruments 18 5
construction £1,707 million. In 2021, we invested £1,205 million
Other non-current assets 1,676 1,041
in new property, plant and equipment. This was mainly related to
Total non-current assets 60,429 60,184
a large number of projects for the renewal, improvement and
Current assets expansion of facilities at various worldwide sites to support new
Inventories 5,783 5,996 product development and launches as well as to improve the
efficiency of existing supply chains. Property is mainly held
Current tax recoverable 486 671
freehold. New investment is financed from our liquid resources.
Trade and other receivables 7,860 6,952
At 31 December 2021, we had contractual commitments for
Derivative financial instruments 188 152
future capital expenditure of £616 million. We believe that our
Liquid investments 61 78
property and plant facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Cash and cash equivalents 4,274 6,292
Assets held for sale 22 106 We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to
Total current assets 18,674 20,247 manage environmental risks from our activities. Environmental
Total assets 79,103 80,431 issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
discontinued, are reported under ‘Environment’ on pages 39
Liabilities
to 40 and in Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal
Current liabilities
proceedings’.
Short-term borrowings (3,601) (3,725)
Contingent consideration liabilities (958) (765) Right of use assets
Trade and other payables (17,554) (15,840)
Right of use assets amounted to £740 million at 31 December
Derivative financial instruments (227) (221)
2021 compared with £830 million on 1 January 2021. The
Current tax payable (489) (545) decrease in the year reflected the impact of depreciation and
Short-term provisions (841) (1,052) disposals of £213 million and £70 million respectively, partly
Total current liabilities (23,670) (22,148) offset by additions of £215 million.
Non-current liabilities
Goodwill
Long-term borrowings (20,572) (23,425)
Corporation tax payable (180) (176) Goodwill decreased to £10,552 million at 31 December 2021,
from £10,597 million.
Deferred tax liabilities (3,556) (3,600)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,113) (3,650)
Other intangible assets
Other provisions (630) (707)
Derivative financial instruments (1) (10) Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired
from third parties and computer software. The net book value of
Contingent consideration liabilities (5,118) (5,104)
other intangible assets as at 31 December 2021 was £30,079
Other non-current liabilities (921) (803)
million (2020 – £29,824 million). The increase primarily
Total non-current liabilities (34,091) (37,475)
reflected additions, net of disposals and write offs of £1,913
Total liabilities (57,761) (59,623)
million, offset by amortisation and impairment losses, net of
Net assets 21,342 20,808
reversals, in the year of £1,597 million.
Total equity 21,342 20,808
74 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 75
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial position and resources continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures Provisions
We held investments in associates and joint ventures with We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
a carrying value at 31 December 2021 of £88 million non-current provisions of £5,027 million at 31 December 2021
(2020 – £364 million). In 2021, the Group sold all of its (2020 – £5,359 million). Other provisions at the year-end
shares in Innoviva Inc. back to Innoviva. Following this included £196 million (2020 – £320 million) related to legal and
divestment, the Group held no investments in associates other disputes and £652 million (2020 – £860 million) related
or joint ventures which are listed entities. See Note 21 to to Major restructuring programmes. Provision has been made
the financial statements, ‘Investments in associates and for legal and other disputes, indemnified disposal liabilities,
joint ventures’. employee related liabilities and the costs of the restructuring
programme to the extent that at the balance sheet date a legal
Other investments or constructive obligation existed and could be reliably
We held other investments with a carrying value at 31 estimated.
December 2021 of £2,126 million (2020 – £3,060 million).
The highest value investments held at 31 December 2021 were Pensions and other post-employment benefits
in CureVac AG, which had a book value at 31 December 2021 We account for pension and other post-employment
of £380 million (2020 – £887 million), and Vir Biotechnology, arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The net deficits were
which had a book value of £266 million (2020 – £130 million). £1,129 million (2020 – £2,104 million) on pension arrangements
The other investments included equity stakes in companies with and £1,243 million (2020 – £1,363 million) on unfunded
which we have research collaborations, and which provide post-employment liabilities. See Note 30 to the financial
access to biotechnology developments of potential interest and statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
interests in companies that arise from business divestments.
Other non-current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments: assets Other non-current liabilities amounted to £921 million at 31
We held current derivative financial assets at fair value of December 2021 (2020 – £803 million).
£188 million (2020 – £152 million) and non-current derivative
financial assets held at fair value of £18 million (2020 – Contingent consideration liabilities
£5 million). The majority of these financial instruments related Contingent consideration amounted to £6,076 million at
to foreign exchange contracts both designated and not 31 December 2021 (2020 – £5,869 million), of which
designated as accounting hedges. £5,559 million (2020 – £5,359 million) represented the
estimated present value of amounts payable to Shionogi relating
Inventories to ViiV Healthcare and £479 million (2020 – £477 million)
Inventory of £5,783 million decreased from £5,996 million represented the estimated present value of contingent
in 2020. consideration payable to Novartis related to the Vaccines
acquisition.
Trade and other receivables
The liability due to Shionogi included £231 million in respect
Trade and other receivables of £7,860 million increased from of preferential dividends. The liability for preferential dividends
£6,952 million in 2020. due to Pfizer at 31 December 2021 was £nil (2020 –
£1 million). An explanation of the accounting for the non-
Deferred tax assets
controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 57.
Deferred tax assets amounted to £5,218 million (2020 –
Of the total contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax
£4,287 million) at 31 December 2021.
basis) at 31 December 2021, £958 million (2020 – £765
million) is expected to be paid within one year. The consideration
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
payable is expected to be paid over a number of years. As a
We held current and non-current derivative financial liabilities
result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their
at fair value of £228 million (2020 – £231 million). This primarily
present values, on a post-tax basis using post-tax discount rates.
related to foreign exchange contracts both designated and not
designated as accounting hedges. The impact of the settlement with Gilead on the contingent
consideration liability (CCL) is to increase it by £288 million,
Trade and other payables on a post-tax basis in Q4 2021 due to the obligation ViiV
Healthcare has to pay future cash consideration to Shionogi for
At 31 December 2021, trade and other payables were
its share of the upfront and of the future US sales performance
£17,554 million compared with £15,840 million at 31
of Biktarvy and products containing bictegravir. Including the
December 2020. The increase primarily reflected the impact
impact of the settlement at 31 December 2021, the liability
of higher customer return and rebate accruals and higher
which is discounted at 8% stood at £5,559 million, on a
accruals relating to our collaborations. See Note 28 to the
post-tax basis.
financial statements, ‘Trade and other payables’.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability
is discounted at 8% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent
consideration liability is discounted partly at 7.5% and partly
at 8.5%.Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Maturity profile of bond debt
£m equivalent
4,500
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2033 2034 2035 2038 2039 2042 2043 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds
Net debt Cash and liquid investments of £2.9 billion (2020 – £5.4 billion)
were held centrally at 31 December 2021.
2021 2020
£m £m
The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 4,335 6,370
is as follows:
Borrowings – repayable within one year (3,601) (3,725)
2021 2020
Borrowings – repayable after one year (20,572) (23,425)
£m £m
Net debt (19,838) (20,780) Cash and liquid investments 4,335 6,370
Gross debt – fixed (23,167) (24,538)
At 31 December 2021, net debt was £19.8 billion, compared
– floating (1,006) (2,612)
with £20.8 billion at 31 December 2020, comprising gross debt
– non-interest bearing – –
of £24.1 billion and cash and liquid divestments of £4.3 billion.
Net debt (19,838) (20,780)
Net debt reduced due to £4.4 billion free cash flow and £0.5
billion proceeds from investments, including £0.3 billion
Movements in net debt
proceeds from the Innoviva disposal and £0.3 billion of net
favourable exchange impacts from the translation of non-Sterling
2021 2020
denominated debt and exchange on other financing items partly £m £m
offset by the dividends paid to shareholders of £4.0 billion and Net debt at beginning of year (20,780) (25,215)
additional investments of £0.2 billion. (Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,414) 470
(Decrease)/increase in liquid investments (18) 1
At 31 December 2021, GSK had short-term borrowings
Increase in long-term loans – (3,298)
(including overdrafts and lease liabilities) repayable within
Net repayment of short-term loans 1,995 7,305
12 months of £3.6 billion and £4.0 billion repayable in the
Repayment of lease liabilities 215 227
subsequent year.
Exchange movements 314 (135)
At 31 December 2021, GSK’s cash and liquid investments were
Other movements (150) (135)
held as follows:
Net debt at end of year (19,838) (20,780)
2021 2020
£m £m
Bank balances and deposits 2,825 3,000
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money
market funds 54 317
Liquidity funds 1,395 2,975
Cash and cash equivalents 4,274 6,292
Liquid investments – government securities 61 78
4,335 6,370
76 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 77
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial position and resources continued
Interest rate benchmark reform Total equity
Interest rate benchmark reform - Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS At 31 December 2021, total equity had increased from
39, IFRS 4, IFRS 7 and IFRS 16’ Phase I and Phase II were £20,808 million at 31 December 2020 to £21,342 million.
issued by the IASB in September 2019 and August 2020, and
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below:
adopted by the UK Endorsement Board on 5 January 2021.
2021 2020
Phase I of the amendment modifies specific hedge accounting £m £m
requirements to allow hedge accounting to continue for affected Total equity at beginning of year 20,808 18,357
hedges during the period of uncertainty before the hedged Total comprehensive income for the year 4,759 7,358
items or hedging instruments affected by the current interest Dividends to shareholders (3,999) (3,977)
rate benchmarks are amended as a result of the ongoing Ordinary shares issued 21 29
interest rate benchmark reforms. Phase II also provides that, Changes in non-controlling interests – (131)
for financial instruments measured using amortised cost Transaction with non-controlling interest 10 –
measurement, changes to the basis for determining the Share-based incentive plans 367 381
contractual cash flows required by interest rate benchmark
Tax on share-based incentive plans 11 (4)
reform should be reflected by adjusting their effective interest
Contributions from non-controlling interests 7 3
rate and no immediate gain or loss should be recognised.
Distributions to non-controlling interests (642) (1,208)
The Group has closely monitored the market and the output Total equity at end of year 21,342 20,808
from the various industry working groups managing the
transition to new benchmark interest rates. This includes Share purchases
announcements made by LIBOR regulators, including the
At 31 December 2021, GSK held 355.2 million shares as
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the US Commodity
Treasury shares (2020 – 355.2 million shares), at a cost of
Futures Trading Commission, regarding the transition away
£4,969 million (2020 – £4,969 million), which has been
from LIBOR (including GBP LIBOR, USD LIBOR and
deducted from retained earnings.
EURIBOR) to the Sterling Overnight Index Average Rate
No ordinary shares were repurchased in the period 1 January
(SONIA), the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR),
2021 to 28 February 2022 and the company does not expect
and the Euro Short-Term Rate (€STR) respectively.
to make any ordinary share repurchases in the remainder
At 31 December 2021, the Group was not directly exposed
of 2022.
to interest rate benchmark reform as it held no interest rate
In 2021, no Treasury shares were transferred to the Employee derivatives or floating rate debt that referenced to LIBOR. The
Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts. Shares are held by the
Group did not transition any material derivatives or floating rate
Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under
debt into a new index as all of the instruments referencing
the Group share option and award schemes.
LIBOR matured before December 2021.
A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect
of awards where the rules of the scheme require GSK to satisfy
exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of
new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to
options and awards granted.
At 31 December 2021, the ESOP Trusts held 23.2 million
(2020 – 49.0 million) GSK shares against the future exercise
of share options and share awards. The carrying value of
£27 million (2020 – £194 million) has been deducted from
other reserves. The market value of these shares was £371
million (2020 – £655 million).
On 10 February 2022, 50.3 million shares were transferred to
the ESOP Trusts after which the Trusts held 72.9 million shares
against the exercise of share options and share rewards.Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Contractual obligations and commitments In 2018, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 35 to the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions, to
financial statements, ‘Commitments’. assist in eliminating the pension deficit identified as part of
the 31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. The table
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and
includes this commitment but excludes the normal ongoing
commitments at 31 December 2021 as they fall due for
annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately
payment.
£110 million. For further information on pension obligations,
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ see Note 30 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and
£m £m £m £m £m other post-employment benefits’.
Loans 23,296 3,399 5,624 2,800 11,473
Interest on loans 7,603 686 1,194 1,038 4,685 Contingent liabilities
Lease obligations 1,015 203 305 166 341 Other contingent liabilities are set out in Note 34 to the financial
Future finance charges 153 25 41 30 57 statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’.
Intangible assets 12,082 583 1,013 1,914 8,572
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
Property, plant & equipment 616 468 148 – –
performance guarantees, letters of credit and other items arising
Investments 146 45 61 40 –
in the normal course of business, and when they are expected
Purchase commitments 484 360 115 8 1
to expire.
Pensions 44 44 – – –
Total 45,439 5,813 8,501 5,996 25,129 Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable Guarantees 12 9 2 – 1
on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of Other contingent liabilities 114 13 12 31 58
derivatives.
Total 126 22 14 31 59
We have entered into a number of research collaborations to
In the normal course of business, we have provided various
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals
The terms of these arrangements can include upfront fees,
in which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A
equity investments, loans and commitments to fund specified
provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
levels of research. In addition, we will often agree to make
probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely
further payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved.
outcome of the dispute and this is included in Note 31 to
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
stages of development, the potential obligation to make
We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes
milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the
when an outflow of resources is considered probable and a
compounds move successfully through the development
reliable estimate of the outflow may be made. At 31 December
process. Generally, the closer the product is to marketing
2021, other than for those disputes where provision has been
approval, the greater the probability of success. The amounts
made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the
shown above within intangible assets represent the maximum
potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle
that would be paid if all milestones were achieved. There was a
disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was
decrease in the commitments in 2021 as a result of a reduction
more than remote.
in outstanding loan commitments.
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly
from the amounts provided and is dependent upon negotiations
with the relevant tax authorities and the outcome of litigation
proceedings, where relevant. This is discussed further in
‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 275 to 287 and
Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
78 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 79
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Treasury policies
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash Interest rate risk management
flows. The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost
Group’s external and internal funding requirements and financial and to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates
risks in support of our strategic objectives. GSK operates on a over time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the
global basis, primarily through subsidiary companies, and we net amount of floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and
manage our capital to ensure that our subsidiaries are able to agreed no less than annually by the Board.
operate as going concerns and to optimise returns to
shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and Foreign exchange risk management
equity. Treasury activities are governed by policies approved
Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
annually by the Board of Directors, and most recently on
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency
14 October 2021. A Treasury Management Group (TMG)
income with local currency costs where possible. Foreign
meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place
currency transaction exposures arising on external and internal
on a regular basis to review Treasury activities. Its members
trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal trading
receive management information relating to these activities.
transactions are matched centrally and we manage
inter-company payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk.
Treasury operations
Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
in order to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety currency.
of financial instruments to finance its operations and derivative
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we
financial instruments to manage market risks from these
seek to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our
operations. Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange
principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap
denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling.
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group
purposes, as well as interest rate swaps which are used to Borrowings can be swapped into other currencies as required.
manage exposure to financial risks from changes in interest Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign
rates. currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets
may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation
contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure
to underlying business activities and not as trading or
to the Group’s investment in overseas Group assets. The TMG
speculative instruments.
reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies
regularly.
Capital management
GSK’s financial strategy, implemented through the Group’s
Commodity risk management
financial architecture, supports GSK’s strategic priorities and is
Our objective is to minimise income statement volatility arising
regularly reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital
from fluctuations in commodity prices, where practical and cost
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and
effective to do so. The TMG is authorised to approve the
equity. We continue to manage our financial policies to a credit
execution of certain financial derivatives to hedge commodity
profile that particularly targets short-term credit ratings of A-1
price exposures.
and P-1 while maintaining single A long-term ratings consistent
with those targets.
Counterparty risk management
GSK’s long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A
We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
(stable outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’)
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings
is A2 (stable outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these limits is
P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
actively monitored and any breach of these limits would be
reported to the CFO immediately.
Liquidity risk management
In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
reviewed regularly so that, when changes in ratings occur,
funding requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding
changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits
requirements are monitored by the TMG on a regular basis. Our
as appropriate. All banking counterparty limits are reviewed at
strategy is to diversify liquidity sources using a range of facilities
least annually.
and to maintain broad access to financial markets.
Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries
to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies
The Group consolidated financial statements have been – The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered
prepared in accordance with international accounting standards programme providing assistance to certain poor and
in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 vulnerable patients. In 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate
and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as Program was established to reduce state and federal
issued by the International Accounting Standard Board (IASB). expenditure on prescription drugs. In 2010, the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act became law. We
We are required to make estimates and assumptions that
participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for
affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific
reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and
terms of the relevant regulations or the Patient Protection
results could differ from those estimates.
and Affordable Care Act
The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas:
– Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage
– Turnover prompt payment. These are accrued for at the time of
– Taxation (Note 14) invoicing and adjusted subsequently to reflect actual
experience
– Legal and other disputes (Notes 46 and 31)
– We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
– Contingent liabilities (Note 34)
historical experience of customer returns to the amounts
– Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 30).
invoiced, together with market-related information such as
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these stock levels at wholesalers, anticipated price increases and
areas is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Critical competitor activity.
accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
uncertainty’.
Pharmaceuticals business is as follows:
2021 2020 2019
Turnover
Margin Margin Margin
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest £m % £m % £m %
business is US Pharmaceuticals, and the US market has Gross turnover 19,928 100 20,035 100 18,471 100
the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and
Market-driven
allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the segments (6,656) (33) (6,754) (34) (5,976) (32)
arrangements in existence in our US Pharmaceuticals business: Government
mandated and
– We have arrangements with certain indirect customers
state programmes (4,553) (23) (5,205) (26) (4,264) (23)
whereby the customer is able to buy products from
Cash discounts (377) (2) (388) (2) (356) (2)
wholesalers at reduced prices. A chargeback represents
Customer returns (117) (1) (117) (1) (141) (1)
the difference between the invoice price to the wholesaler
Prior year adjustments 838 4 402 2 247 1
and the indirect customer’s contractual discounted price.
Other items (621) (3) (522) (2) (579) (3)
Accruals for estimating chargebacks are calculated based
Total deductions (11,486) (58)(12,584) (63)(11,069) (60)
on the terms of each agreement, historical experience and
Net turnover 8,442 42 7,451 37 7,402 40
product growth rates
– Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and Market-driven segments consist primarily of managed care and
Group Purchasing Organisations and other direct and indirect Medicare plans with which we negotiate contract pricing that is
customers. These arrangements require the customer to honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments
achieve certain performance targets relating to the value of consist primarily of Medicaid and federal government
product purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market programmes which receive government-mandated pricing via
shares relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates and chargebacks.
rebates is estimated based on the specific terms in each
agreement, historical experience and product growth rates
80 GSK Annual Report 2021Group financial review continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 81
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Critical accounting policies continued
The decreased deductions in the Government mandated and We may become involved in significant legal proceedings, in
state programmes of the gross turnover to net turnover respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess
reconciliation primarily reflected lower rebates and chargebacks whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to
on respiratory products, and on Advair in particular. quantify or reliably estimate the liability, if any, that could result
from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases,
During the year Advair accounted for 6% of US
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included
Pharmaceuticals turnover and approximately 21% of the
in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made.
total deduction for rebates and returns.
This position could change over time and, therefore, there can
The respiratory portfolio as a whole, including Established
be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of
Respiratory products, accounted for approximately 77% of
any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the
the total deduction in the year.
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial
The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances statements.
and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines
Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with
businesses are managed on a combined basis. At 31 December
various complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation,
2021, the total accrual amounted to £5,044 million (2020 –
as well as investigations of our operations conducted by various
£4,686 million).
governmental regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at General Counsel of the Group, as head of the Group’s legal
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses function, and the Senior Vice President and Head of Global
gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party Litigation for the Group, who is responsible for all litigation and
data sources and information received from key wholesalers. government investigations, routinely brief the Chief Executive
The aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Board of Directors
from year to year based on the pattern of consumption. on the significant litigation pending against the Group and
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory governmental investigations of the Group.
levels at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
31 December 2021 were estimated to amount to litigation and government investigations and review matters
approximately four weeks of turnover. This calculation uses such as the number of claims notified to us, information on
third party information, the accuracy of which cannot be totally potential claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of
verified, but is believed to be sufficiently reliable for this claims, progress made in settling claims, recent settlement
purpose. levels and potential reimbursement by insurers.
The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not
Legal and other disputes
there is sufficient information available for us to be able to make
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes,
a reliable estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes.
the following briefly describes the process by which we
Often, external counsel assisting us with various litigation
determine the level of provision that is necessary.
matters and investigations will also assist in the briefing of the
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions, Board and senior management. Following these discussions,
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for for those matters where it is possible to make a reliable estimate
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is of the amount of a provision, if any, that may be required, the
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of level of provision for legal and other disputes is reviewed and
the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses adjusted as appropriate. These matters are discussed further
arising from claims against the Group. in Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Strategic report
The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on
28 February 2022
Iain Mackay
Chief Financial Officer
28 February 2022Corporate
Governance
In this section
The Board and GSK Leadership Team 83
Chair’s Governance statement 89
Board roles and responsibilities 92
Board committee information 93
Board architecture 94
Board activity 95
Board progress in 2021 96
Board’s approach to continuous engagement 99
Board-led purpose and culture 102
Board performance 103
Board committee reports 104
Section 172 statement 116
Directors’ report 117
8822 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211GSK Annual Report 2021 83
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
The Board
Board composition Board diversity International experience
Composition Gender
Executive 23% Male 62% Global 85%
Non-Executive 77% Female 38% US 100%
Europe 77%
Tenure Non-Executive Ethnicity
EMAP 69%
Up to 3 years 40% Ethnically diverse 15%
3-6 years 20% White 85%
6-9 years 30%
9-10 years 10% See more information on page 110
Sir Jonathan Symonds, CBE Skills and experience
Non-Executive Chair Jon has extensive international financial, life sciences and governance experience.
Jon served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc from April 2014, and as Deputy
Age: 63
Group Chairman from August 2018, until his retirement from the Board in February 2020. He was previously
Nationality: British
Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, Chief Financial Officer of Novartis AG, Partner and Managing Director of Goldman
Appointed: 1 September 2019
Sachs, Chief Financial Officer of AstraZeneca plc, and a Partner at KPMG. His governance experience includes
roles as Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committees of Diageo plc and QinetiQ Group plc and
N Non-Executive Chair of Proteus Digital Health Inc.
Jon is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director, Rubius Therapeutics, Inc; Non-Executive Director, Genomics England Limited having
previously served as its Chairman; Member, European Round Table for Industry; Senior Advisor to Chatham House.
Dame Emma Walmsley Skills and experience
Chief Executive Officer Prior to her appointment as GSK’s CEO, Emma was the CEO of GSK Consumer Healthcare, a Joint Venture
between GSK and Novartis, from its creation in March 2015. Emma joined GSK in 2010 from L’Oreal, having
Age: 52 worked for 17 years in a variety of roles in Paris, London, New York and Shanghai. Emma was previously a
Nationality: British Non-Executive Director of Diageo plc.
Appointed: 1 January 2017 Emma holds an MA in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford University.
Chief Executive Officer from
External appointments
1 April 2017
Independent director, Microsoft, Inc.
Iain Mackay Skills and experience
Chief Financial Officer Prior to joining GSK, Iain was Group Finance Director at HSBC Holdings plc, a position he held for eight years.
A chartered accountant, Iain has lived and worked in Asia, the US and Europe and before HSBC was at General
Age: 60 Electric, Schlumberger Dowell and Price Waterhouse. Iain was previously a Trustee of the British Heart
Nationality: British Foundation and Chair of its Audit and Risk Committee.
Appointed: 14 January 2019 Iain holds an MA in Business Studies and Accounting and holds an Honorary Doctorate from Aberdeen University
Chief Financial Officer from in Scotland.
1 April 2019
Iain is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
External appointments
Member, Court of the University of Aberdeen and Chair of its Remuneration Committee; Member, The 100 Group
and Chair of its Stakeholder Communications and Reporting Committee.
Dr Hal Barron Skills and experience
Chief Scientific Officer Prior to joining GSK, Hal was President, R&D at Calico LLC (California Life Company), an Alphabet-funded
company that uses advanced technologies to increase understanding of lifespan biology. Prior to this, Hal was
and President, R&D
Executive Vice President, Head of Global Product Development, and Chief Medical Officer of Roche, responsible
Age: 59 for all the products in the combined portfolio of Roche and Genentech. At Genentech, he was Senior Vice
Nationality: American President of Development and Chief Medical Officer. Hal was a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Science
Appointed: 1 January 2018 & Technology Committee at Juno Therapeutics, Inc until March 2018, when it was acquired by Celgene
Chief Scientific Officer and Corporation. Hal previously served as a Non-Executive Board Director of GRAIL, Inc and an Advisory Board
President, R&D from 1 April 2018 Member of Verily Life Sciences LLC.
As announced on 19 January 2022 Tony Wood will succeed Hal as CSO and Head of R&D with effect from
1 August 2022. From that date, Hal will transition to a non-independent Non-Executive Director with additional
responsibilities to support R&D.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director of Altos Labs Inc; Associate Adjunct Professor, Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University
of California, San Francisco.
Key Committee Chair N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C Corporate ResponsibilityThe Board continued
Charles Bancroft Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Charlie has a wealth of financial and management experience in global biopharma.
Director Charlie retired from a successful career at Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) in March 2020 where he held a number
of leadership roles in commercial, strategy and finance. Beginning his career at BMS in 1984, he held positions
Age: 62 of increasing responsibility within the finance organisation and had commercial operational responsibility for Latin
Nationality: American America, Middle East, Africa, Canada, Japan and several Pacific Rim countries. He was appointed Chief
Appointed: 1 May 2020 Financial Officer in 2010, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Business Operations in
2016 and Executive Vice President and Head of Integration and Strategy & Business Development in 2019.
A N Charlie successfully steered BMS through a period of strategic transformation, including its recent $74 billion
acquisition of Celgene. Charlie also served as a member of the Board of Colgate-Palmolive Company from 2017
until March 2020.
External appointments
Board Member, Kodiak-Sciences Inc; Board Member, BioVector Inc; Advisory Board Member, Drexel University’s
LeBow College of Business.
The Board determined that Charlie has recent and relevant financial experience and agreed that he has the
appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert.
Manvinder Singh (Vindi) Banga Skills and experience
Senior Independent Non-Executive Vindi has many years of commercial experience and a track record of delivering outstanding performance in
highly competitive global consumer-focused businesses.
Director
Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent 33 years at Unilever plc, where his last role (amongst several senior positions)
Age: 67 was President of the Global Foods, Home and Personal Care businesses, and a member of the Unilever
Nationality: British Executive Board. Vindi sat on the Prime Minister of India’s Council of Trade & Industry from 2004 to 2014 and
Appointed: 1 September 2015 was on the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad. Vindi is also the
Senior Independent Non-Executive recipient of the Padma Bhushan, one of India’s highest civilian honours. Vindi has been a Non-Executive Director
Director from 5 May 2016 of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) and Thomson Reuters Corp, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of
Mauser Group, Chairman of Kalle GmbH, Director of High Ridge Brands LLC, Member of the Indo UK CEO
N A R Forum, and Senior Independent Director of Marks & Spencer Group plc.
External appointments
Partner, Clayton Dubilier & Rice; Non-Executive Director, The Economist Newspaper Limited; Member, Holdingham
International Advisory Board; Board Member, International Chamber of Commerce United Kingdom; Member,
Governing Board of the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad; Member, Global Leadership Council of Saïd
Business School, Oxford; Chair of the Board of Trustees, Marie Curie; Chairman, UK Government Investments.
Dr Anne Beal Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Anne brings extensive healthcare experience to the Board as a physician and entrepreneur combined with a
passion for patient advocacy. She is a recognised health policy expert in the development of global and national
Director
programmes for improving healthcare access for all patient groups and in ensuring the voice of patients is
Age: 59 reflected in research programmes.
Nationality: American Prior to her current roles, Anne spent six years at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital,
Appointed: 6 May 2021 where she was an instructor in paediatrics. She has also held leadership roles at the Commonwealth Fund and
the Aetna Foundation. Anne was previously Deputy Executive Director and Chief Engagement Officer for The
C A Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute in the U.S. and Chief Patient Officer and Global Head of Patient
Solutions at Sanofi.
External appointments
Founder and CEO, AbsoluteJOI Skincare; Board Member, AcademyHealth; Board Member, Prolacta Bioscience.
Dame Vivienne Cox Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Vivienne has wide experience of business gained in the energy, natural resources and publishing sectors. She
also has a deep understanding of regulatory organisations and government.
Director & Workforce
Vivienne worked for BP plc for 28 years, in Britain and Continental Europe, in posts including Executive Vice
Engagement Director
President and Chief Executive of BP’s gas, power and renewable business and its alternative energy unit.
Age: 62 Vivienne was previously a Non-Executive Director of BG Group plc and Rio Tinto plc, the Senior Independent
Nationality: British Director of Pearson plc, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Vallourec and the Lead Independent Director at
Appointed: 1 July 2016 the UK Government’s Department for International Development. Vivienne was made a Dame Commander of
the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in the 2022 UK New Year’s Honours List for services to sustainability,
diversity, and inclusion in business.
R C
External appointments
Chair Designate, Victrex plc; Non-Executive Director, Stena AB; Advisory Board Member, African Leadership
Institute; Vice President, Energy Institute; Advisory Board Member, Montrose Associates; Investment Advisor,
QantX Ventures; Chair, Rosalind Franklin Institute; Vice Chair, Saïd Business School, Oxford and Member of its
Global Leadership Council; Patron, Hospice of St Francis.
Key Committee Chair N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C Corporate Responsibility
84 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 85
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
The Board continued
Dr Harry (Hal) C Dietz Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Hal brings extensive experience in the field of human genetics which is central to GSK’s approach to R&D. He
is a former President of the American Society of Human Genetics and is recognised as the world’s leading
Director and Scientific &
authority on a genetic disorder known as Marfan Syndrome. He also brings experience in development of novel
Medical Expert therapies, through his role as Founder of and Scientific Adviser to Blade Therapeutics, a biopharmaceutical
Age: 63 company focused on disease-modifying treatments for fibrotic and neurodegenerative diseases. In total, Hal
has authored 282 original publications in peer-reviewed journals across his career.
Nationality: American
Appointed: 1 January 2022 As a physician scientist, he has dedicated his entire career to the care and study of individuals with heritable
connective tissue disorders with primary perturbations of extracellular matrix homeostasis and function. His lab
has identified the genes for many of these conditions, for which he uses model systems to elucidate disease
S
mechanisms.
Hal has received multiple prestigious awards including the Curt Stern Award from the American Society of
Human Genetics, the Colonel Harland Sanders Lifetime Achievement Award in Medical Genetics, the Taubman
Prize for excellence in translational medical science, the Harrington Prize from the American Society for Clinical
Investigation and the Harrington Discovery Institute, the Pasarow Award in Cardiovascular Research, the
InBev-Baillet Latour Health Prize from the country of Belgium, and the Research Achievement Award from the
American Heart Association.
He is an inductee of the American Society for Clinical Investigation, American Association for the Advancement
of Science, Association of American Physicians, National Academy of Medicine, and National Academy of
Sciences.
External appointments
Victor A. McKusick Professor of Paediatrics, Medicine, and Molecular Biology & Genetics in the Department of
Genetic Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine; Investigator, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute; Founder and Scientific Advisor, Blade Therapeutics; Consultant and Chair of Scientific Advisory
Board, Aytu Biopharma; Independent Chair, GSK’s Human Genetics Scientific Advisory Board.
Lynn Elsenhans Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and significant knowledge of the global markets in
which GSK operates.
Director
Lynn served as Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Inc from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining
Age: 65
Sunoco in 2008 as President and Chief Executive Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell, which she joined
Nationality: American in 1980, and where she held a number of senior roles, including Executive Vice President, Global
Appointed: 1 July 2012 Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008. Lynn was previously a Non-Executive Director of the First Tee of Greater
Houston, Flowserve Corporation, the Texas Medical Center, and a Trustee of the United Way of Greater
C N A Houston.
External appointments
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee, Baker Hughes
Company; Board Director and Chair of the Audit Committee, Saudi Aramco; Advisory Board Member, Johns
Hopkins University Whiting School of Engineering; Member, Audit Committee Leadership Network.
Dr Laurie Glimcher Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Laurie brings scientific and public health expertise to the Board’s deliberations, and a wealth of global, publicly
listed pharmaceutical business experience.
Director and Scientific &
Medical Expert In addition to a number of senior leadership positions held at both Harvard Medical School and Harvard School
of Public Health, Laurie has also served as Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean and Professor of Medicine at
Age: 70 Weill Cornell Medical College and as an Attending Physician at the New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill
Nationality: American Cornell Medical Center. Laurie stepped down from the Board of Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) in 2017 after
Appointed: 1 September 2017 serving for 20 years on its Board. Laurie was previously a Non-Executive Director of the Waters Corporation
and co-founder and Chair of the Scientific Advisory Board of Quentis Therapeutics Inc.
A S External appointments
Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School; CEO, President and an Attending Physician, Dana-Farber
Cancer Institute.
Member, US National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Medicine; Member, Scientific
Steering Committee of the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy; Independent Director, Analog Devices
Inc; Director and Member of the Executive Committee, Breakthrough Cancer; Member, Scientific Advisory
Boards of Repare Therapeutics Inc, Abpro Therapeutics, Kaleido Biosciences Inc, BioCentury Inc and Stand
Up 2 Cancer.
Judy Lewent joined the Board on 1 April 2011. She retired from the Board on 5 May 2021.
Key Committee Chair N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C Corporate ResponsibilityThe Board continued
Dr Jesse Goodman Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Jesse brings scientific and public health expertise to the Board’s deliberations. He has a wealth of experience
spanning science, medicine, vaccines, regulation and public health, and has a proven record in addressing pressing
Director and Scientific &
public health needs from both the academic and federal sectors.
Medical Expert
Jesse previously served in senior leadership positions at the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), including
Age: 70 most recently as the FDA’s Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy Commissioner for Science and Public Health
Nationality: American and as Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER).
Appointed: 1 January 2016
Jesse played a leadership role in developing the FDA’s Regulatory Science and Medical Countermeasures Initiatives
and has worked collaboratively with industry, academia, government and global public health and regulatory
S C partners to prepare for and respond to major public health threats, including emerging infectious diseases, disasters
and terrorism. He led the FDA’s response to West Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic and served
on the Senior Leadership Team for the 2010 White House Medical Countermeasure Review. Jesse was previously a
member of both the Scientific Advisory Committee and the Regulatory and Legal Working Group of the Coalition
for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).
External appointments
Professor of Medicine and Attending Physician, Infectious Diseases, Georgetown University and directs the
Georgetown University Center on Medical Product Access, Safety and Stewardship (COMPASS); Board Member
(formerly President), United States Pharmacopeia (USP); Board Member, Scientific Counselors for Infectious
Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); Board Member, Intellia Therapeutics Inc; Member,
US National Academy of Medicine; Board Member, Adaptive Phage Therapeutics, Inc.
Urs Rohner Skills and experience
Independent Non-Executive Urs has a broad business, banking and legal background and extensive senior level experience at multinational
companies.
Director
Urs has served as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse Group from 2011 until
Age: 62
April 2021. Prior to joining Credit Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of
Nationality: Swiss ProSieben and ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This followed a number of years in private practice at major law
Appointed: 1 January 2015 firms in Switzerland and the US, having been admitted to the bars of the canton of Zurich in Switzerland in 1986
and the state of New York in the US in 1990.
R N
External appointments
Member, International Advisory Board, Investcorp; Chair, Vega Cyber Associates AG.
Key Committee Chair N Nominations & Corporate Governance A Audit & Risk R Remuneration S Science C Corporate Responsibility
86 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 87
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
GSK Leadership Team
Skills and experience
Dr Hal Barron1 Hal joined GSK and the GSK Leadership Team (GLT) in 2018. See Board biographies on pages
Chief Scientific Officer 83 to 86.
and President, R&D
Roger Connor Roger joined the GLT in 2013. He was appointed President of GSK Vaccines in 2018. In addition
President, Vaccines and Global Health to leadership of the Vaccines business, he leads GSK’s Global Health organisation since 2021
and is also responsible for GSK’s global procurement organisation. Roger is a member of the
Board of Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and the Chair of the International Federation of
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) CEO Vaccines Committee. Previously
he was President, Global Manufacturing & Supply and, before that, Vice President, Office of the
CEO and Corporate Strategy. Roger joined GSK in 1998 from AstraZeneca. Roger holds a
degree in Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering from Queen’s University, Belfast and a
Master’s in Manufacturing Leadership from Cambridge University. He is a Chartered Accountant.
Diana Conrad Diana was appointed Chief People Officer and member of the GLT in April 2019. She was
Chief People Officer previously Senior Vice President, HR, Pharmaceuticals R&D from 2016 where she played a key
strategic role as leader of the R&D people and culture agenda to support its transformation.
Diana joined GSK Canada’s HR team in 2000 where she held several roles of increasing
responsibility before becoming Senior Vice President, HR for Consumer Healthcare in 2009.
Prior to joining GSK, she held HR roles in companies including GE Capital, Gennum Corporation
and Zenon Environmental Laboratories. Diana has an Honours Bachelor of Arts from McMaster
University in Canada.
James Ford James joined the GLT in 2018, when he was appointed Senior Vice President and Group General
SVP and Group General Counsel, Counsel, Legal and Compliance. He joined GSK in 1995 and has served as General Counsel
Consumer Healthcare, General Counsel Global Pharmaceuticals, Vice President of Corporate
Legal and Compliance
Legal and was Acting Head of Global Ethics and Compliance. Prior to GSK, James was a solicitor
at Clifford Chance and DLA. He holds a law degree from University of East Anglia and a Diploma in
Competition Law from King's College. He is qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales and is an
attorney at the New York State Bar. James is based in London but has practised law and lived in the
US, Singapore and Hong Kong. James is co-chair of the US-based Civil Justice Reform Group and
a director of the European General Counsel Association.
Sally Jackson Sally joined the GLT in March 2019 as Senior Vice President, Global Communications and CEO
SVP, Global Communications Office. She leads our Communications and Government Affairs function globally and is also the
CEO’s Chief of Staff. Prior to this, Sally was Senior Vice President Office of the CEO and CFO and
and CEO Office
she previously served as Head of Investor Relations. She joined GSK in 2001. Sally holds a degree
in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge.
Iain Mackay Iain joined GSK and the GLT in 2019. See Board biographies on pages 83 to 86.
Chief Financial Officer
Brian McNamara Brian is CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare and CEO designate of the new Consumer Healthcare
CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare company, Haleon. He joined GSK in 2015 as Head of Europe and Americas for Consumer Healthcare
and has led two successful Joint Ventures, first between GSK and Novartis and, more recently, with
Pfizer. Previously, he was head of Novartis’ OTC division. Brian began his career at P&G.
Brian is a Board member of the Consumer Goods Forum and a former Chairman and Board member
of the Global Self-Care Federation (GSCF). He earned an undergraduate degree in Electrical
Engineering from Union College in New York and an MBA in Finance from the University of Cincinnati.
1 O n 1 August 2022 Hal Barron will transition from his current role to become a Non-Executive Director and Tony Wood will join GLT as Chief
Scientific OfficerGSK Leadership Team continued
Skills and experience
Luke Miels Luke joined GSK and the GLT in 2017. As Chief Commercial Officer he is responsible for our
Chief Commercial Officer commercial portfolio of medicines and vaccines. Luke also co-chairs the Portfolio Investment Board
with Hal.
He previously worked for AstraZeneca as Executive Vice President of their European business and,
prior to that, was Executive Vice President of Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Medical
Affairs and Corporate Affairs. Before that, he was head of Asia for Roche, based in Shanghai and
then Singapore. Prior to that he held roles of increasing seniority at Roche and Sanofi-Aventis in
the US, Europe and Asia.
Luke holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and a MBA
from the Macquarie University, Sydney.
Shobie Ramakrishnan Shobie joined the GLT in 2021 when she was appointed Chief Digital and Technology Officer.
Chief Digital and Technology Officer She joined GSK in 2018 and has deep and broad experience in both biotech and hi-tech companies
and, most recently, has led Digital and Technology for GSK’s Global Commercial organisation,
transforming the company’s capabilities in digital, data and analytics and playing a pivotal role in
establishing a more agile commercial operating model. Before joining GSK, Shobie held senior
technology leadership roles in organisations including AstraZeneca, Salesforce, Genentech and
Roche. She is a board member of Remediant and on the advisory board of Pistoia Alliance.
Shobie holds a Bachelor’s degree in Electronics Engineering from Vellore Institute of Technology,
University of Madras, India.
David Redfern David joined the GLT as Chief Strategy Officer in 2008 and is responsible for corporate development
Chief Strategy Officer and strategic planning. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Northern Europe with responsibility
for GSK’s pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, before that, he was Senior Vice President
for Central and Eastern Europe. He joined GSK in 1994. David was appointed Chairman of the
Board of ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a Non-Executive Director of the Aspen Pharmacare
Holdings Limited Board in 2015.
He has a Bachelor of Science degree from Bristol University and is a Chartered Accountant.
Regis Simard Regis joined the GLT in 2018, when he became President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain.
President, Pharmaceuticals He is responsible for the manufacturing and supply of GSK’s pharmaceutical products. He also
leads Quality and Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability at a corporate level. Regis joined
Supply Chain
GSK in 2005 as a Site Director in France, rising to become Senior Vice President of Global
Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing before his current role. Previously, he held senior positions at
Sony, Konica Minolta and Tyco Healthcare. He is a member of the Board of ViiV Healthcare.
He is a mechanical engineer and holds an MBA.
Phil Thomson Phil joined the GLT in 2011. He was appointed President, Global Affairs in 2017, and has
President, Global Affairs responsibility for the Group’s strategic approach to stakeholder engagement, reputation and policy
development. Previously, Phil was Senior Vice President, Communications and Government Affairs.
Phil is Chair of The Whitehall & Industry Group and a Board member of the China–Britain Business
Council.
He earned his degree in English, History and Russian Studies from Durham University.
Emma Walmsley Emma joined GSK in 2010 and the GLT in 2011. See Board biographies on pages 83 to 86.
Chief Executive Officer
Deborah Waterhouse Deborah was appointed to the GLT in January 2020. She became Chief Executive Officer of ViiV
CEO, ViiV Healthcare Healthcare in April 2017.
Deborah joined GSK in 1996 and prior to ViiV was the Senior Vice President of Primary Care
within GSK’s US business. She has a strong track record of performance in both specialty
and primary care. Deborah led the HIV business in the UK before heading the HIV Centre of
Excellence for Pharma Europe and held roles as General Manager of Australia and New Zealand
and Senior Vice President for Central and Eastern Europe.
Deborah is a Non-Executive Director of Schroders plc and holds a degree in Economic History
and English Literature from Liverpool University.
Nick Hirons was a member of the GLT and Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance until 31 July 2021. Karenann Terrell was a member of the
GLT and Chief Digital and Technology Officer until 8 December 2021.
88 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 89
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Chair’s Governance statement
Board priorities: governance and delivery In October, Vindi Banga, the SID, and I attended a meeting with
In the last three years there has been significant change members of the Investor Forum at which we shared progress in
for GSK, in a highly dynamic operating environment, as it preparing for the creation of new GSK as a pure biopharma
progresses towards the formation of two independent company and the separation of the CH business. Included in
companies in the middle of 2022. In supporting both the this discussion were the plans and timings to create two boards
separation of Consumer Healthcare (CH) and creation of new with continuing oversight of the biopharma and CH businesses.
GSK, there have been three stages in our oversight work. The In December, at our annual Governance Meeting, my Board
first was to ensure that there was clarity between the Board and colleagues and I were pleased to share more specifics with
management on GSK’s strategy, its execution and, therefore, investors about our priorities, focus and oversight, as well as the
our key priorities. Then we focused on articulating our ambitions progress made in 2021. The presentation slides from both these
for a transformed GSK. This was completed for the biopharma meetings are available on our website for your information.
business at the Investor Update (IU) in June 2021 and for the Urs Rohner, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, has also
CH business at the end of February 2022. These ambitions consulted extensively on the new compensation proposals for
will provide the foundation for enhanced performance the biopharma business. This statement seeks to summarise the
management and a highly transparent way to track progress. governance work undertaken by the Board and our committees,
The final stage has been to ensure the company’s in what was another exceptionally busy year.
compensation system reinforces the performance culture The Board has maintained and continues to build on our ESG
that we are seeking to embed and only rewards delivery at leadership which benefits the company, shareholders and all
and beyond our IU ambitions. The compensation system for our stakeholders.
CH will be determined by its new Board.
Current Board accountability: Priorities and focus
Our work has also been focused on creating the best platform
for our CH business to be demerged to grow sustainably ahead At the start of the year, following its annual evaluation, the Board
of its categories in the years to come. The mechanism of reconfirmed its priorities. Namely to:
separation of CH is a value-based process and at all times the
– remain objective and act in the best interests of the company
Board has regard for what is in the best long-term interests of
and all shareholders
shareholders.
– put sustained value creation at the heart of our agenda
It has never been more important for the Board to operate to
– align the Board agenda with our strategy, performance and the highest standards of corporate governance in supporting
pipeline priorities
and overseeing the delivery of GSK’s transformation and the
separation of CH. The Board continues to focus its work on our – ensure management performance and succession is
key priorities and on taking the important decisions necessary assessed against delivery
to progress them, and be held accountable for doing so by our
– use the IU targets to provide the foundation for enhanced
shareholders and other key stakeholders.
performance management
Throughout 2021, the Board has significantly stepped up its
– ensure that the separation of CH is a value-based process
engagement with shareholders. During 2021, I held over 40
meetings with a range of investors, who make up around nearly Being explicit on the Board’s priorities has meant that we have
40% of the company’s share register. It is of prime importance been able to maximise our time and focus at each meeting on
for the Board to have a clear understanding of their views on the further strengthening the fundamentals for GSK which will
company’s performance against our strategy and the Board’s support value creation. We have concentrated our oversight on
effectiveness in oversight of the transformation and separation commercial execution, cost base, capital allocation, pipeline and
processes. I share shareholders’ perspectives with the Board, culture to ensure delivery of the transformation of GSK.
so we can continue to improve our alignment. This clarity has also helped underpin an increased agility in the
way the Board has operated. You will see on page 94 that the
Board, in combination with the Chairs' Committee, met over 36
times in 2021. We sought to improve our ability to respond
quickly and adapt to events as they occur, whilst continuing to
deliver our plans. The Chairs’ Committee (comprised of our SID
and Committee Chairs) has been authorised, where necessary,
to engage and take decisions on urgent matters that arise
between scheduled Board meetings. Being agile has been
important in improving and sustaining our competitiveness so
that, despite the challenging environment, we can continue to
compete and deliver for patients and shareholders.Chair's Governance statement continued
Having set our strategy, the Board challenged the proposed Having completed this work, the Board was well-positioned to
new ambitions and targets for the biopharma business which consider the unsolicited, conditional and non-binding proposals
were then agreed and published at our IU. These new growth received to acquire the CH business. In exercising its fiduciary
outlooks and ambitions seek to be clear on the step change in duties, all proposals were considered but rejected by the Board
performance expected from new GSK from 2022. The Board as they were not in the best interests of shareholders. This is
will oversee and hold management to account for delivery because they fundamentally undervalued the business and its
against these public ambitions. future prospects. The Board is confident that Haleon can deliver
sustained organic annual sales growth in the range of 4-6%
The Board adopted the same process of maximising value for
(CER) over the medium term.
GSK shareholders when considering the creation of CH as an
independent, listed company (Haleon). We have focused on We carefully considered how best to present our world-leading
ensuring the business is well-positioned to grow sustainably CH business and its management team to shareholders,
ahead of its categories in the years to come and has a highly analysts and prospective investors at the CH Capital Markets
skilled management team to lead it. Day on 28 February. Management continues to make good
progress towards our target to separate the CH business in
the middle of the year, creating a publicly listed world-leading
consumer health company. The Board's attention has been
directed at overseeing the smooth execution of the demerger.
Current Board accountability
Board
Transformation & Separation
Priorities and focus Mandate: How to separate to unlock and maximise long-term
shareholder value
– Remain objective and act in the best
(Devolved into committee architecture in December 2021)
interests of company and all
shareholders
Nominations & Corporate Governance
– Commitment to drive sustained value
Mandate: GSK Board design and transition, and Haleon Board
creation
and management team formation
– Board agenda aligned with strategy
and performance and pipeline priorities
Science
– Management performance and Mandate: Pipeline progress, Board strategic collaborations, key
succession assessed against delivery priorities in science and innovation
– Investor Update and targets provides
foundation for enhanced performance Corporate Responsibility
management Mandate: GSK Trust priority for a responsible and sustainable
business
– Separation of Consumer Healthcare, to
create Haleon, is a value-based process
Audit & Risk
– Continuous engagement with
Mandate: Financial reporting, risk and controls plus public
shareholders
documents delivering separation
Remuneration
Mandate: Alignment of GSK remuneration to Investor Update
targets, Haleon's remuneration policy and separation impact
90 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 91
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Chair's Governance statement continued
Board committee mandates The Committee recommended the appointment of Sir Dave
Our Board committees have never been more pivotal in Lewis as Haleon Chair Designate in December, after an
supporting the Board. Their activities during 2021 are set out extensive search process. This followed the appointment of
later in this report, but I would like to highlight below their key Brian McNamara as Haleon CEO Designate in July. Sir Dave
contributions in discharging the mandates allocated to them is now responsible for building his full Haleon Board. Mr
during the last year. McNamara was pleased to introduce his management team to
investors at the CH Capital Markets Day on 28 February 2022.
Transformation & Separation Committee: has dealt with the
fundamentals of separation, not just the technical requirements, Science Committee: continued its focus on our pipeline
but how to best release and maximise long-term shareholder progress strategic collaborations and the key priorities in
value. It considered: how we should best separate the CH science and innovation.
business and the principal value to be achieved from each Corporate Responsibility Committee: focused its oversight
option; the capital structures required for the two companies to on key aspects of our Trust priorities. The main areas of focus
be competitive; how we should distribute shares in Haleon to were our safety culture, inclusion and diversity, our charitable
our shareholders, and on which exchanges Haleon should list giving and community involvement and ESG performance for
and why. This was a very comprehensive programme of work new GSK and the development of the ESG framework for the
which was supported by independent advisers. This process is independent CH company, Haleon.
now well into the execution phase. Given the remaining work
Remuneration Committee: has revisited our remuneration
plans are clear, oversight has been devolved to the relevant
policy to focus on reinforcing a fundamental change in our
committees as appropriate. Having fulfilled its mandate, the
performance culture and to support the delivery of our IU Committee has been decommissioned.
ambitions and ESG priorities for the biopharma company. The
Audit & Risk Committee: has in particular been considering Committee Chair and I have consulted extensively with our
the financial implications of separation, including the shareholders on this policy and it will be subject to a binding
progressive dividend policy adopted for 2022, and the vote at this year’s AGM.
preparation of the demerger documents for shareholders to
Further details of the Board and its committees’ work during
consider before approving the separation of the CH business.
2021 are set out in the following pages.
It has also been overseeing the establishment of CH’s financial
controls. I look forward to connecting with you at our Annual General
Meeting this year in May and updating you at that time on the
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee: has been
transformation of GSK and progress on the CH demerger.
overseeing key Board appointments for the transition of the
Thank you for your continued support.
company to a pure biopharma business. This included
succession planning especially for the CSO, the subsequent
appointment of Dr Tony Wood as our CSO Designate, and the
Sir Jonathan Symonds
appointment of Dr Anne Beal and Dr Hal Dietz to the Board as
Chair
independent Non-Executive Directors.
28 February 2022
The Board asked the Committee to take the opportunity to
re-evaluate and determine the optimal biopharma Board
composition, including skills, diversity, capabilities and
experience. On separation from the middle of this year, it is
expected that two of the members from the current GSK Board
will join the Haleon Board. This will ensure that the new Haleon
Board will have continuity of the history, knowledge and
experiences of this Board as the Haleon Board establishes
itself in its early years.Board roles and responsibilities
Leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge
Chair Non-Executive Directors
Jonathan Symonds
– provide a strong independent element to the Board
– leads and manages the business of the Board – constructively support and challenge management and
– provides direction and focus scrutinise their performance in meeting agreed
– ensures clear structure for effective operation of the deliverables
Board and its committees – shape proposals on strategy and offer specialist advice
– maintains a dialogue with shareholders about the to management
governance of the company – each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms
– sets the Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is and conditions of their directorship
allocated to promote effective debate to support sound – devote such time as is necessary to the proper
decision making performance of their duties
– ensures the Board receives accurate, timely and clear – are expected to attend all meetings as required
information
Independence statement
– meets continuously with each Non-Executive Director to
discuss individual contributions and performance, The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors
together with training and development needs who are identified on pages 84 to 86 to be independent
– shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the after being assessed against Provision 10 of the Financial
Board evaluation process Reporting Council's (FRC) UK Corporate Governance
– meets regularly with all the Non-Executive Directors Code (Code). The review of the continuing independence
independently of the Executive Directors and commitment of Lynn Elsenhans, who has served
on the Board for more than nine years, is described on
The Chair’s role description is available on gsk.com
page 107. The independence and commitment of Vindi
Banga, Dame Vivienne Cox, Dr Jesse Goodman and Urs
Chief Executive Officer
Rohner, who will have served on the Board for over six
Emma Walmsley
years during the course of 2022, has been subjected to
– responsible for the management of the Group and its a rigorous review.
three businesses
The NED's role description is available on gsk.com
– develops the Group’s strategic direction for
consideration and approval by the Board Senior Independent Director
– implements the agreed strategy Vindi Banga
– is supported by members of the GLT
– acts as a sounding board for the Chair and a trusted
– maintains a continual and active dialogue with
intermediary for other Directors
shareholders in respect of the company’s performance
– together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the
The Chief Executive Officer’s role description is available on gsk.com annual review of the Chair’s performance, taking into
account views of the Executive Directors
– discusses the results of the Chair’s effectiveness review
with the Chair
– leads the search and appointment process and makes
the recommendation to the Board for a new Chair
– acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders,
maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns
of major shareholders through briefings from the
Company Secretary and Investor Relations.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role description is
available on gsk.com
Company Secretary – secretary to the Board and all Board committees
Victoria Whyte – supports the Board and Committee Chairs in annual agenda planning
– ensures information is made available to Board members in a timely fashion
– supports the Chair in designing and delivering Board inductions
– coordinates continuing business awareness and training requirements for the Non-Executive Directors
– undertakes internal Board and committee evaluations at the request of the Chair
– advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures, and corporate governance matters
– chairs the Group’s Disclosure Committee
– operates a Board-approved appointments policy that reflects the Board and external appointment
requirements of the current Code
– is a point of contact for shareholders on all corporate governance matters
92 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 93
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board committee information
The Board has established the following committees:
Board committee
Board committee Role Membership comprises report on page
Science Supports the Board in its understanding of the key strategic Dr Jesse Goodman (Chair) 105-106
themes, upon which the company’s R&D strategy is based, Dr Hal Dietz (from January 2022)
and of any external transactions, by performing in-depth Dr Laurie Glimcher
reviews of the underlying scientific assumptions to give the
Charles Bancroft (from May 2021 to
Board technical assurance. It also undertakes more in-depth
February 2022)
risk oversight of R&D-related risks
Judy Lewent (until May 2021)
Corporate Responsibility Considers GSK’s Trust priority and oversight of progress Lynn Elsenhans (Chair) 104-105
against the associated Trust commitments which reflect the Dr Anne Beal (from May 2021)
most important issues for responsible and sustainable Dame Vivienne Cox
business growth. It has oversight of the views and interests of Dr Jesse Goodman
our internal and external stakeholders and reviews issues that
have the potential for serious impact upon GSK’s business
and reputation
Transformation Advises and assists the Board on the transformation and Sir Jonathan Symonds (Chair) 110
& Separation separation of the company and oversees the associated risks Charles Bancroft
(Devolved into the committee in separating the Group into Biopharma and Consumer Vindi Banga
architecture and disbanded Healthcare companies Dame Vivienne Cox
in December 2021) Lynn Elsenhans
Urs Rohner
Judy Lewent (until May 2021)
Nominations & Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, Sir Jonathan Symonds (Chair) 107-110
Corporate Governance the appointment of members to Board committees and Charles Bancroft (from May 2021)
the appointment of Corporate Officers and makes Vindi Banga
recommendations to the Board as appropriate. It plans and Lynn Elsenhans
assesses orderly succession for Executive and Non-Executive Urs Rohner
directors and reviews management's Succession Plan to
Judy Lewent (until May 2021)
ensure its adequacy
Is responsible for reporting to the Board, overseeing and
monitoring corporate governance arrangements and for
making recommendations to the Board to ensure the
company’s standards and arrangements are consistent with
existing corporate governance standards and emerging best
practice. It also reviews the company’s conflicts of interest
Audit & Risk Reviews the financial reporting process, the integrity of the Charles Bancroft (Chair from March 2021) 111-115
company’s financial statements, the external and internal audit Vindi Banga
process, the system of internal control and the identification Dr Anne Beal (from July 2021)
and management of risks, and the company’s process for Lynn Elsenhans
monitoring compliance with laws, regulations and ethical Dr Laurie Glimcher
codes of practice
Judy Lewent (Chair until March 2021 and
Initiates audit tenders, the selection and appointment of the member until May 2021)
external auditor, setting their remuneration and exercising
oversight of their work
Remuneration Sets the company’s remuneration policy having regard to Urs Rohner (Chair) 119-152
GSK’s workforce remuneration so that GSK is able to recruit, Vindi Banga
retain and motivate its executives Dame Vivienne Cox
The Remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to ensure
that it is consistent with the company’s scale and scope of
operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans,
is aligned to the wider workforce and helps drive the creation
of shareholder value
(The Chair and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and
making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration
of Non-Executive Directors)
Each Board committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board and are reviewed at least annually to
ensure that they comply with the latest legal and regulatory requirements and reflect best practice developments. The current full
terms of reference of each Board committee are available on gsk.com. The number of committee meetings held and committee
members' attendance are described on page 94.
Details of committee members’ skills and experience are included in their biographies under ‘The Board’ on pages 83 to 86. In
accordance with the FRC's Code, the Board has determined that Charles Bancroft has recent and relevant financial experience. It
has also agreed that he has the appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit committee financial expert as defined by
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that he is independent within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended.Board architecture
The corporate governance framework is designed to improve the effectiveness of the Board and to support the GSK Leadership
Team (GLT). It continues to evolve to support the delivery of our strategy and priorities. The alignment of our Board architecture with
the Board’s agenda to support the demerger is illustrated on page 90.
GSK’s internal control and risk management arrangements, described on pages 112 and 46 to 54, are an integral part of our
corporate governance framework.
Board
Chief Science Committee Corporate Responsibility Audit & Risk Committee
Executive Committee
Officer
R ead more on page 105 Read more on page 104 Read more on page 111
GSK Nominations & Corporate Remuneration Committee Transformation &
Leadership Governance Committee Separation Committee*
Team R ead more on page 107 Read more on page 119 Read more on page 110
See page 93 for more about the roles and membership of each Board committee.
Attendance at scheduled Board and committee meetings during 2021
Nominations
&
Corporate Corporate Transformation
Board Governance Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Responsibility & Separation*
Total number of scheduled
meetings 6 6 6 6 3 4 3
Members Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended
Sir Jonathan Symonds 6 6 3
Emma Walmsley 6
Iain Mackay 6
Dr Hal Barron 6
Charles Bancroft 6 3 (3) 6 2 (2) 3
Vindi Banga 6 6 6 6 3
Dr Anne Beal 3 (3) 2 (2) 3 (3)
Dame Vivienne Cox 6 6 4 3
Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 4 3
Dr Laurie Glimcher 6 6 3
Dr Jesse Goodman 6 3 4
Urs Rohner 6 6 6 3
Judy Lewent 3 (3) 3 (3) 3 (3) 3 (3) 1 (1) 2 (2)
Number of ad-hoc meetings 15 7 4 7 6 1
For Charles Bancroft, Dr Anne Beal and Judy Lewent, the numbers in brackets denote the number of meetings which these individuals were eligible to
attend. Dr Beal joined the Board and the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 6 May 2021 and the Audit & Risk Committee on 23 July 2021. Charles
Bancroft joined the Science and Nominations & Corporate Governance committees on 6 May 2021. Judy Lewent retired from the Board following the
AGM on 5 May 2021.
In addition to the ad-hoc meetings included in the table above, the Chairs' Committee, that was established at the end of 2020, met on 15 occasions to
consider various items of business during 2021.
* The Transformation & Separation Committee was devolved into the committee architecture and disbanded in December 2021
The Board is pleased to report that in 2021 it was in full compliance with the provisions of the FRC's Code, with the exception of Code provision 38. This
requires alignment of pension rates for executive directors with those available to the local workforce. From 1 January 2023 any current Executive Directors
still in role will have their pension rates aligned to the wider workforce local to them. This will then replicate the pension arrangements for any new Executive
Directors appointed to GSK. This transition was set out in the 2019 and 2020 Annual Reports. In addition, provision 38 requires that only base salary should
be pensionable; however, US pension arrangements for employees allow basic salary and bonus to be pensionable. Following Dr Barron’s transition to a
Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 August 2022 this requirement will be met.
The Board is also pleased to report that it has consistently applied the principles of the FRC's Code as set out in the pages of this and the Remuneration
reports. A copy of the Code is available on the FRC’s website, www.frc.org.uk.
94 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 95
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board activity
The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings. Papers and presentations are given to the Board
(and its committees) to focus its oversight of strengthening the fundamental elements of the business and its growth-based performance
ambitions, the transformation and separation of GSK to create two world-leading companies and our ESG leadership priorities in pursuit
of the company’s strategy.
This information helps the Board facilitate effective decision making and input, or aid the Board’s oversight and awareness of business
performance or routine good governance practices operated by the company. Further details of a selection of principal decisions taken
by the Board (and its committees) and how the interests of relevant stakeholders were taken into account in arriving at their decisions are
set out on pages 96 to 98.
Items of business considered critical to GSK’s long-term success through the achievement of the key priorities are highlighted below.
Areas of focus in 2021
The Board’s oversight of the fundamentals of the commercial execution, cost base, capital allocation, pipeline and culture
Further
included:
strengthening
GSK’s – receiving regular progress updates and providing input into the company’s Vaccines mRNA strategy plan
fundamentals – receiving and discussing commercial strategy performance reports from Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and ViiV Healthcare businesses
– reviewing and approving the objectives and ambitions for the company and patients that were announced at the Investor Update in
June
– approving GSK's progressive new dividend policy
– approving the Board’s 2021-23 priorities
– approving business development transactions and strategic partnerships with third parties, including Vir Biotechnology, CureVac, iTeos
and Alector
– receiving updates on R&D strategy, progress and the company's pipeline
– receiving quarterly reports from the CEO, CFO and CSO
– scrutinising the Group’s financial performance
– setting the company’s new purpose and simplified culture
– oversight of projects and collaborations with third parties, to develop vaccines and treatments for COVID-19
– reviewing the risks and impacts of COVID-19 on the Group’s business and performance
– approving the terms of the global settlement and licensing agreement with Gilead
Separation The Board’s preparation for the demerger as a value-based process included:
of Consumer – regularly discussing and scrutinising transformation plans for Consumer Healthcare business
Healthcare
– receiving and discussing commercial strategy performance reports from Consumer Healthcare business
– discussing plans for Consumer Healthcare up to and beyond separation as Haleon at the annual Board and GLT strategy day
– approving the appointment of the Haleon Chair and CEO designates and planning for the Haleon Board composition
– reviewing and rejecting unsolicited proposals for the Consumer Healthcare business
New GSK The Board’s oversight of the creation of GSK as a pure biopharma business and delivering a step change in performance
included:
– regularly discussing and scrutinising transformation plans for new GSK
– discussing plans for the company up to and beyond separation as new GSK a pure biopharma company at the annual Board and GLT
strategy day
– reviewing and approving the objectives and ambitions for the company and patients that were announced at the Investor Update
– receiving updates on R&D strategy, progress and the company's pipeline
– succession planning for the new GSK Board, including approval of the appointments of a new Non-Executive Director and Corporate
Responsibility Committee Chair successor and a new Non-Executive Director and designated Scientific & Medical Expert
Maintaining The Board’s oversight of Trust and the ESG agenda included:
ESG leadership – approving the Trust section of the Annual Report
– approving the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures in the Annual Report
– delegating specific responsibility to the Corporate Responsibility Committee for oversight of Human Rights in the company’s operations
Regular The Board’s focus on a routine programme of good governance activities included:
governance – reviewing the quarterly financial results, dividend proposal, earnings guidance, investor materials and results announcements and
oversight receiving reports from the external auditor
– approving the Annual Report and Form 20-F
– setting the annual budget and plan, and the forward-looking three-year forecast
– conducting an annual review of the Board’s enterprise risk responsibility framework and enterprise-wide risks
– considering observations and agreeing actions from the Board’s external evaluation
– reviewing and continuing to evolve the Board’s governance architecture
– evaluating the CEO’s 2020 performance, and setting her 2021 objectives
– reviewing the annual talent and succession plan
– receiving reports from Board committees and the Workforce Engagement Director
– discussing the employee PULSE survey results
– receiving reports on corporate governance and regulatory developments and the Company Secretary’s report
– approving the company's modern slavery statement and gender pay gap positioning
– reviewing stakeholder perception researchBoard progress in 2021
The Board and its committees have been highly focused on their key priorities and ensuring GSK's fundamentals continue to be
enhanced.
Board members’ decision making on these significant matters included the consideration of the interests of GSK’s key stakeholders
and how decisions could potentially affect them. The papers considered by the Board and its committees sought to highlight the
relevant stakeholder impacts of and perspective on these matters – whether positive or negative.
Selected examples of some of the principal decisions taken by the Board in 2021, and how the Board considered relevant
stakeholders’ perspectives are described below:
Stakeholder groups, and other
Progress area Principal decision How Board/Committee regarded stakeholder interests section 172 duties considered
Commercial China: The Committee reviewed GSK China’s implementation Stakeholders:
execution The Audit & Risk Committee of the healthcare professionals (HCP) speaker HCPs and medical experts,
recommended incremental changes engagements and sales force incentive (SFI) policy employees, investors,
to the commercial model in China to changes to date. It noted tangible improvements governments and regulators,
the Board for approval observed in our people and customer engagement patients and consumers
Further details are available on In this context, the Committee considered further Other s172 duties:
page 111 incremental changes to our HCP engagement and SFI Long-term results, our workforce,
programme in China. This included a plan for an business relationships and
increase in the number of city-level Healthcare reputation
Organisations (HCOs) to increase our reach. Further
improvement of HCP coverage across the country
enables our innovative Specialty Care products to
ultimately reach more patients. To continue to
safeguard key stakeholder interests including patients,
the Committee reviewed a risk assessment, the
training approach and the proposed implementation
of controls over the new potential HCOs before
recommending this change
Cost base Transformation programme: The Board agreed to the acceleration of this Stakeholders:
The Board concluded its oversight programme to generate additional savings that could be Investors, patients and
of the savings made from the invested in the R&D pipeline for the potential benefit of employees
transformation programme to patients and to deliver shareholder returns Other s172 duties:
achieve a cost base competitive Long-term business
with its peers performance, our workforce and
our business relationships
Capital allocation Dividend policy change: The Board, with support from the Audit & Risk Stakeholders:
Committee, carefully considered this matter before Investors, patients and our
The Board reviewed and approved
concluding to move to a progressive dividend policy from people
the implementation of a new
progressive dividend policy for 2022. In consideration of its duties, the Directors Other s172 duties:
implementation from 2022 examined the importance of predictable returns, Our long-term results, workforce
particularly in uncertain times and business relationships and
Further details are available on
As part of its deliberations, the Board carefully balanced reputation and fairness between
page 111
the impact of and trade-offs between reducing the our shareholders
dividend against the importance of setting up new GSK
with the right capital structure and the resources to
invest, grow and improve shareholder returns over the
longer term
Ultimately, the Board determined that setting a
progressive dividend policy in this way would support the
investment needed to deliver growth, unlock further
shareholder value and develop an even stronger pipeline
of innovative products capable of transforming the lives
of our patients
Pipeline Business development, The Science Committee and Board reviewed many Stakeholders:
collaborations business development opportunities during the year. Patients, employees and
and deals: Those leading to concluded transactions included: investors
The Science Committee considered – A collaboration with iTeos Therapeutics to enable Other s172 duties:
the scientific merits of these next generation immune-oncology combinations Our long-term results, workforce
opportunities prior to the Board’s – Expansion of the collaboration with Vir and business relationships
review and approval Biotechnology to advance new therapeutics for
Further details are available on influenza and other respiratory viruses and
page 106 – Collaboration with Alector to co-develop anti-
bodies for neurodegenerative diseases
These deals were considered in the context of their
potential to help GSK deliver transformational
medicines to patients
96 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 97
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board progress in 2021 continued
Stakeholder groups, and other section
Progress area Principal decision How Board/Committee regarded stakeholder interests 172 duties considered
New growth Investor Update: The Board drew on comprehensive investor feedback Stakeholders:
ambitions The Board approved the June Investor and other key stakeholder research and outreach to Patients and consumers, our people
Update (IU) objectives and ambitions help inform and shape the agreed ambitions shared at and investors, governments and
with a focus on GSK's growth outlook the IU event for new GSK, our patients and regulators, non-governmental
and for maximising shareholder value shareholders, and impacting the health of more than organisations and multilateral
creation including: 2.5 billion people over the next ten years. The Audit & organisations
Risk Committee also reviewed the proposals Other s172 duties:
– competitive growth and margin
outlook The details of how stakeholder interests were then Long-term business performance,
taken into account by the Remuneration Committee our workforce, business
– competitive sustainable returns and
when incorporating key IU ambitions into the updated relationships, the community and
value creation and
2022 Remuneration policy for GSK our environment, our reputation and
– new ambitions for shareholders and are described in the ‘Remuneration policy review’ fairness between our shareholders
society principal decision below
Further details are available on page 111
Separation of Rejection of unsolicited proposals Having completed this foundational work, the Board Stakeholders:
Consumer for CH business: was well-positioned to consider the unsolicited, Patients and consumers, our people,
Healthcare conditional and non-binding proposals received to investors, governments and
– The Board had ensured that the CH
acquire the CH business regulators, non-governmental
business was well-positioned to
sustainably grow ahead of its The proposals were rejected as they were not in the organisations and multilateral
categories in the years to come and best interests of shareholders since they organisations
had a highly skilled management fundamentally undervalued the business and its Other s172 duties:
team to lead it future prospects Long-term business performance,
our workforce, our business
– It was confident that the CH
relationships, the community and our
business could sustainably deliver
environment, our reputation and
organic sales growth in the range of
fairness between our shareholders
4-6% (CER) over the medium term
Demerger of CH: The Board, supported by the Transformation & Stakeholders:
Separation Committee, considered the best way to Patients and consumers, our people The Board approved:
release maximum shareholder value, and for the two and investors, governments and
– the retention of a stake in the companies be set on firm foundations to be able to regulators, non-governmental
Consumer Healthcare company, most effectively serve their patients and customers organisations and multilateral
Haleon, post demerger respectively organisations
– Haleon's opening capital structure This included the most appropriate capital Other s172 duties:
and structures required for the two companies to be Long-term business performance,
competitive, how to distribute shares in Haleon to our workforce, our business
– the separation of CH to create
GSK’s shareholders, whether to retain a stake relationships, the community and our
Haleon by mid-2022
in Haleon, and on which exchanges Haleon should environment, our reputation, and
Further details are available on page 110 list and why fairness between our shareholders
Remuneration Remuneration policy review: Prior to developing the new 2022 Remuneration Stakeholders:
policy (the new policy), on behalf of the Our people, investors, patients and
The Remuneration Committee approved
Remuneration Committee, the Remuneration consumers, governments and
a new 2022 Remuneration policy and
Committee Chair and the Chair: regulators and proxy advisers
measures for the biopharma company,
which is subject to a binding – considered investor feedback on the key Other s172 duties:
shareholder vote at our ambitions set out at the IU event and engaged Long-term results, our workforce the
2022 Annual General Meeting. with its major investors, and proxy advisers on the community and our environment and
It incorporates new long- and proposed changes our reputation
short-term incentives including: – consulted with the Corporate Responsibility
– Sales and adjusted operating profit Committee on GSK’s ESG commitments and
growth measures aligned to the IU Trust priorities
ambitions and – listened to the views of an ESG expert, outlined in
– ESG measures reflecting the the ‘ESG leadership’ principal decisions below,
company’s work in this regard concerning views of stakeholders on the linkage
of ESG to remuneration incentives and
– met with the Chief People Officer and the HR
leads for each area of the business to hear their
views on remuneration arrangements at GSK and
wider workforce pay alignment opportunities for
new GSK
They also consulted with investors and proxy advisers
on the new policy proposals. Following engagement,
the Committee then carefully considered the feedback
before finalising the design of the new policy
Further details are available on pages 143 to 152Board progress in 2021 continued
Stakeholder groups, and other section
Progress area Principal decision How Board/Committee regarded stakeholder interests 172 duties considered
ESG leadership Leading ESG expert view and The ESG expert: Stakeholders:
insights on GSK: – provided an overview of ESG investor Investors, patients, employees,
Following a wide-ranging and expectations governments and regulators,
non-governmental organisations
comprehensive briefing and debate – described major trends in ESG and the causal
and multilateral organisations
with a recognised ESG expert, drivers
the Corporate Responsibility Other s172 duties:
– covered GSK and sector specific issues,
Committee agreed a programme Long-term results, our business
including culture, net zero and intangibles and
of actions to further improve our relationships, the community and our
ESG communications and IR – shared developments around ESG links to environment, our reputation and
engagement by: remuneration fairness between our shareholders
– providing further evidence, The Committee considered the positive and negative
metrics and data to investors of historical stakeholder perceptions together with
how the company’s culture is GSK’s focus on purpose, mission and culture
being transformed The company’s new environmental sustainability goals
– more proactively targeting our had been announced the previous year. The
long-term investor base and company’s approach could be further enhanced by
strengthening the alignment to remuneration
– increasing the availability of our
incentives with delivery of ESG ambitions. The
Board committee Chairs to help
expert’s insights were considered as part of the
strengthen understanding of their
development by the Remuneration Committee of the
committees’ approach and work
ESG remuneration measures explained in the
Further details are available on Remuneration Report
page 105
New GSK Board succession planning: The Committee considered the optimal future Stakeholders:
composition of the new GSK Board for the future Patients and consumers, our people
The Nominations & Corporate
Governance Committee agreed: To appropriately reflect stakeholder interests, the and investors
Board wished to be constituted so as to: Other s172 duties:
– a set of key guiding principles for
the new GSK Board and – be diverse in the broadest sense Our long-term business
performance, workforce and
– an optimal Board skills matrix – have appropriate operational depth across the business relationships and
life science value chain and from a general
This supported the development of reputation
commercial perspective
a roadmap for future appointments
over the medium term to help deliver – have experience of major customer markets,
on our stated ambitions for patients and
and shareholders – needed the skills and insights of members who
Further details are available on could continue to ensure the company’s
page 107 and 108 leadership position in ESG
Settle significant Gilead – Dolutegravir global The decision to settle this global litigation was Stakeholders:
litigation settlement taken after careful consideration in the context of Investors, patients, governments and
bringing certainty for investors and to support regulators
The Board approved the terms of
the global settlement and licensing additional investment in the business for the future Other s172 duties:
agreement in which Gilead would: and thereby benefiting patients and investors Long-term results, our business
Further details are available on page 58 relationships and our reputation
– make an upfront payment of
$1.25 billion to ViiV Healthcare
and
– pay a 3% royalty on all future US
sales of Biktarvy and in respect
of the bictegravir component of
any other bictegravir-containing
products sold in the US
98 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 99
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board’s approach to continuous engagement
How we engage with our main stakeholder groups – including The Board also learns of stakeholder views through:
patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and employees
Engagement and feedback events such as: the quarterly
– across the company is summarised on pages 44 and 45 of
investor results calls, the annual general meeting, employee
our strategic report. survey reports, and through the Workforce Engagement
How the Board considered the interests of our stakeholders in Director’s reports and experts presenting at Board or
its discussions and decision making in 2021 is set out in the: committee meetings. In particular, during 2021, the Investor
Update and the Chair and SID’s meeting with Investor Forum
– Section 172 statement on page 116, and the sections it
members provided additional sources of investor feedback.
references in this Annual Report
Other opportunities: to gain wider stakeholder views are
– principal decisions the Board and its committees made,
provided during the annual strategy meeting with the GLT, as
on pages 96 to 98
part of the annual budget and planning process, and in
Our stakeholders rightly have high expectations of us. Our reviewing specific aspects of the company’s policies or
dynamic operating environment presents many challenges and strategy.
opportunities. The Board aims to make sure that remaining
In addition, Board members are encouraged to meet individually
commercially successful is balanced and aligned with meeting
with employees, shareholders and other key stakeholders
our stakeholders’ expectations, upholding our reputation,
during their induction, and then on an ongoing basis. They are
maintaining our licence to operate and building trust. The Board
encouraged to report to the Board on such experiences where
engages with many stakeholders, to ensure it identifies and
relevant and material.
responds to their expectations effectively.
The influence and importance of different stakeholder groups
can vary, depending on the matter being considered. Certain
Our people
stakeholders’ interests can be in conflict, meaning the Board
needs to make balanced judgements.
We have well-established and strong engagement mechanisms
Stakeholder engagement and feedback helps us identify with our colleagues, which are described on pages 11 and 45.
emerging issues. It also enables the Board to make decisions in Two key governance channels help communicate what our
the context of what is relevant and important to each of them. people are thinking to the boardroom:
Our principal Board committees, and the GLT, undertake – feedback from our global, as well as smaller, more targeted
engagement on the Board’s behalf in accordance with their PULSE employee surveys
remit. This means that they can build a detailed understanding
– the work of our Workforce Engagement Director, Dame
of how our actions or plans are/or may impact stakeholders.
Vivienne Cox, who regularly gathers and explains colleagues’
These insights are shared with the Board, as appropriate.
views to the Board, as she outlines below
In particular, the Board receives a substantial amount of
The Chair and other Non-Executive Directors also regularly
information about stakeholders’ perspectives from the work
meet our people around the Group and report back to the
of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, which is discussed
Board. As COVID-19 restrictions permitted during the year,
on pages 104 and 105.
they were pleased to meet with our employees in person,
Board members regularly receive: individually and in small groups, as well as continuing to meet
virtually.
– the CEO’s Board report
The Chair, Workforce Engagement Director and Corporate
– a specific external stakeholders report. This provides
Responsibility Committee Chair designate met with leaders of
strategic insights based on an analysis of key developments,
our employee resource groups (ERGs), for example, as part of a
achievements and risks impacting our reputation and the
continuing dialogue about progress on our inclusion and
perceptions of external stakeholders
diversity agenda, as well as on other issues that mattered to
– a monthly investor relations report which summarises investor
ERG members and employees.
perceptions
2021 has been a significant year of change for our people. The
– regular corporate governance and litigation and regulatory
Future Ready transformation programme has intensified and
updates
increased anticipation around the demerger of Consumer
Healthcare and the shape of GSK. Ahead of this, PULSE
surveys with smaller groups of employees have meant that the
Board and GLT could check sentiment more quickly and
frequently, and could provide valuable insights on the impact of
major initiatives, events or communications.Board’s approach to continuous engagement continued
This year, the Board and GLT spent more time in listening Post-event surveys show good progress is being made in
sessions with leaders and small groups of employees who have explaining new GSK and building confidence, with less positive
front-line roles across the company. This has helped to better sentiment around how employees have been feeling. The Board
understand the future of and build people’s confidence in GSK is acutely aware that the pandemic has increased fatigue and
– as well as testing and listening to feedback on the new reduced resilience for many of our people. This has reinforced
purpose, strategy and culture. In 2021 Emma held more than 25 the importance of prioritising and caring for our people and
small group sessions with the workforce. The GLT cumulatively providing the support they need to be successful. The Board
held more than 40 sessions specifically focused on new GSK. monitors this not only through employee engagement, but also
This provided rich feedback, which has helped shape internal with quarterly monitoring of how many employees are taking up
communications and achieve record engagement levels, with support, how many are absent, and how many are leaving the
37,000 employees joining two live events. company. The Board was pleased that the GLT chose to
recognise every employee with a week’s thank you pay award
in recognition of resilience and strong delivery in extraordinary
circumstances.
Workforce Engagement Director
This is my third year as Workforce Engagement Director. In Other engagement programme highlights
this time, I have appreciated the chance to meet with different I joined a Site Directors’ and Site Quality Leaders’ meeting
people across the company and to listen carefully to their comprising a group of employees who had recently been
views and perspectives. During the year, the engagements I appointed to these roles. My meeting with them was part of a
have attended have continued to be virtual; however, I am very longer induction programme they undertake. I took part in the
pleased that this has not prevented people from being very session where they discussed the impact of the new culture
open and transparent in their discussions with me. on their roles. They stressed the importance of ensuring
continuous improvement at their sites.
Purpose, strategy and culture
In the mid-point of 2021, I met with HR leaders and I was
As I established the programme of visits at the start of 2021,
impressed by their energy and commitment, through to and
I was conscious that it would be a year of significant change.
beyond separation. It was clear that their focus on People,
The transformation programme to restructure the Group in
Culture, Leadership and Capability would be key to supporting
advance of separation was launched in 2020. It has continued
an environment where people can thrive, and additionally how
throughout 2021 and, with it, there has naturally been some
important the new simplified HR systems and operating model
uncertainty for our people. Therefore, I was keen to use my
would be to ensuring quality support for all our people.
role to understand the impact of these changes on the
organisation. Additionally, as the separation has been getting The ‘Ahead Together’ session was an ambitious and well-
closer, it has raised questions in the minds of our people about received two-day digital event which brought together 1,500
the future shape of new GSK and the Consumer Healthcare employees from around the world. The objective was to share
business as a new listed company. In particular, I wanted to thinking and progress on the launch of two new companies
understand how the work done by the Board and the GLT to and exchange ideas about the opportunities that lie ahead.
define a new purpose, strategy and embed a new simplified Finally, I spent time with a group of high potential Commercial
culture, which is discussed elsewhere in the Annual Report, employees from the Greater China and Intercontinental region
was being experienced. who were completing a virtual development programme. We
Probably the most consistent message I have heard this year discussed their key learnings, which were the importance of
is the value people attach to working for a company with a developing resilience and building trust.
strong sense of purpose and a clear strategy. Additionally, After each meeting with an employee group, I share my
the people I have met are supportive of the new culture. They thoughts and observations with the leaders and the Board on
appreciate the simplicity and the clarity that it brings. a non-attributable basis. Perhaps the most valuable aspect is
I have continued, with Jon, our Chair, to engage with our that on an ongoing basis, those views and perspectives can
diversity Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), specifically be factored into the Board and GLT discussions and decision
on the impact of the announcement of the company’s public making.
aspirations for improving ethnicity and gender representation
in the workforce and leadership positions. Overall, their
Dame Vivienne Cox
responses were positive while continuing to encourage the
Workforce Engagement Director
Board and GLT to intensify their efforts to support and
28 February 2022
promote diverse talent.
100 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 101
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board’s approach to continuous engagement continued
Our shareholders Annual Governance Meeting
This year’s event was virtual with institutional shareholders, key
The Board seeks to directly engage with private retail and investment industry bodies and proxy advisory firms. The Chair
institutional shareholders in several ways. These include regular was joined by our Senior Independent Director, Workforce
communications, the Annual General Meeting and our annual Engagement Director, Committee Chairs and GSK’s external
Governance Meeting, and through the work of our Investor audit partner.
Relations team, the Chair, Sir Jonathan Symonds and our We shared with investors the priorities and focus of the Board
Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte. and its committees and progress made in 2021. This included a
During the year, our CEO, Emma Walmsley, and CFO, Iain continued focus on strengthening the fundamentals of the
Mackay, gave quarterly results presentations to institutional business, maintaining ESG leadership, strong oversight of
investors, analysts and the media by webcast teleconference. progress towards separation to create a world-leading
They are also regularly joined by the CSO, the Chief Consumer Healthcare company and the new growth outlooks
Commercial Officer, CEO, ViiV Healthcare, President Global and ambitions set for GSK to deliver a step-change in
Vaccines and the CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare. They are performance from 2022.
available to provide more detailed insights into their areas of The Remuneration Committee Chair shared details of the
responsibility. Committee’s review of executive remuneration arrangements for
Through regular meetings, Emma and Iain have an ongoing GSK ahead of separation. This included an updated GSK
and active dialogue with institutional shareholders about our policy, focused on reinforcing the delivery of the public
performance, plans and objectives. In 2021 the CEO held 56 performance ambitions set out in the IU in June 2021 and
individual meetings with major shareholders and hosted 32 delivery of our public ESG commitments. This will be submitted
group meetings with actual and potential major shareholders. to a binding shareholder vote at the 2022 AGM.
The CFO held 84 individual meetings and 46 group meetings. The Workforce Engagement Director discussed her programme
The Chair has always maintained an active dialogue with of engagements to gather and help the Board further
shareholders too – including fund and portfolio managers – understand our people’s perspectives on our new purpose,
as well as seeing governance professionals. During 2021 the strategy and the new simplified culture and the CH demerger.
Chair held 43 meetings with a range of investors, who make up The meeting was well received and shareholder feedback was
nearly 40% of the company’s share register. This enables him to shared subsequently with the rest of the Board.
have a current understanding of investor views, insights and
perspectives about the company. He also covers with investors, Annual General Meeting
Board succession planning arrangements in his capacity as
Due to restrictions on public gatherings in light of the COVID-19
Chair of the Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee.
situation at the time, shareholders were unable to physically
The Chair, CEO and the rest of the Board had a particular focus attend the 2021 AGM held at our registered office in Brentford.
in 2021 on communicating our plans about the demerger to Therefore, our priority was to seek to provide live electronic
shareholders and the future ambitions for GSK as a biopharma access to the AGM for as many shareholders as possible. Our
business. As part of this extensive outreach, in June the CEO aim was to promote a similar type of meaningful engagement
and other members of the GLT hosted a virtual Investor Update with the Board as would occur at a conventional AGM.
to provide a clear view of the strategy for GSK and its outlook Pleasingly, 142 shareholders joined the meeting electronically to
for growth and ambitions. watch or listen to updates from our Chair and the CEO, to ask
questions, and vote. All our proposed resolutions were
In October at an Investor Forum-hosted event, and in December
approved by shareholders, with majorities ranging from 93%
at the annual Governance Meeting, the Chair provided an
to 99%.
update on how the Board and its committees have aligned
their work to drive the demerger and establish key governance It is intended that our AGM in May 2022 will be held at the
workstreams to support delivering it and to focus GSK’s future Sofitel London Heathrow Hotel and will use a hybrid format to
as a biopharma business. allow our shareholders the flexibility to attend, ask questions and
vote either in person or electronically. See further details on
Investor materials for these events are available on gsk.com.
page 291.Board-led purpose and culture
The Board’s role is to promote GSK’s sustainable success, To more clearly identify where we are making progress – and
drive long-term growth for shareholders and value for where we need to make changes – the Board and GLT have
stakeholders. Our strategic report on pages 1 to 81 changed how we track and measure this culture change. We are
demonstrates how we work to achieve these goals. Our now using more insights, measuring more frequently, being more
Corporate Governance report on pages 83 to 118 explains responsive and making this information easier to access. This
how our governance arrangements support our oversight of the will help drive progress in the short-term and make significant
strategic transformation into two separate businesses, as well change over the long-term. For further details see page 11.
as our new ambitions for patients and shareholders. This work
The Board was also briefed on the proposed new mission,
will be supported by our renewed company culture.
strategy and culture for Haleon. Its culture will be focused on
The Board is responsible for setting the Group’s overall three behaviours:
purpose and culture. This is fundamental to conducting our
– Go beyond
business to the highest standards, promoting long-term
success and unlocking, protecting and maximising value for – Do what matters most
shareholders. – Keep it human
In the four years Emma Walmsley has been CEO, the Board has These are described in more detail on page 43 and were
worked to change our culture. While always being guided by launched formally by the Haleon Chair and CEO Designates at
our purpose and values, our culture is moving to one that works their Capital Markets Day on 28 February 2022.
more effectively towards our long-term strategic priorities:
The Board will also support GSK's new culture by appointing
Innovation, Performance, Trust. The Board saw the momentum
and promoting the right people, upholding and incentivising the
and ambition around the two new businesses in 2021 as a
right behaviours with strong governance controls and thorough
unique opportunity to unify our people behind one purpose,
processes, and training and developing employees.
one strategy and one culture.
The Board recognises that the ‘tone from the top’ drives a
Our new purpose is to unite science, talent and technology to
company’s culture. The Board and GLT must be role models
get ahead of disease. We have a clear ambition to make an
and lead by example, using their words, actions and behaviours
even more meaningful impact on human health and create
to set the template for our people. Like all our people, members
better, more sustainable returns. We want to do this in an
of the Board take the following key training and awareness
environment that allows outstanding people to thrive.
modules:
For the Board, ‘getting ahead’ means preventing disease as well
– Living our values and expectations, which explores our values,
as treating it. It means innovating by combining ideas,
expectations and culture and how they apply to our
capabilities and know-how inside and outside GSK. Our focus
operations and ways of working
for R&D is to deliver new vaccines and medicines using the
science of the immune system, human genetics and advanced – Anti-bribery and corruption
technologies. And we do this making a deep commitment to our
– Inclusion and diversity
stakeholders to operate responsibly.
For more detail about our new, single definition of culture, and
Essential to these plans is embedding a new, simplified culture,
how we invest in and reward our people, see pages 11 and 37.
one in which we:
The Board also remains committed to getting ahead of issues
– are ambitious for patients, by delivering what matters better
that matter for the sustainability of our company, be it pricing
and faster
and access, the environment, or stronger diversity and inclusion.
– are accountable for impact, by having clear ownership and More progress in these areas is set out on pages 34 to 40 of
the support to succeed our strategic report and in our ESG Performance Report,
available on gsk.com.
– do the right thing, by working with integrity and care and
understanding that people count on us Our Code of Conduct embodies our values, so the Board
reviews and refreshes it regularly. It is available on gsk.com.
The Board’s discussions during the year focused on the new
purpose and culture centred on: Our corporate standards and employee policies are aligned
with our values. They include our long-standing Speak Up
– the rationale for this change
system, which enables our people to raise matters confidentially
– a review of employee engagement and feedback when or anonymously without fear of reprisal. The Board, through the
trialling this change Audit & Risk Committee, reviews Speak Up reports provided by
– the next steps the Board and GLT needed to take to make our Legal and Compliance team. Our Speak Up channels and
this change real for our people reports are managed by an independent third party, with cases
then investigated by Legal and Compliance.
102 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 103
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Board performance
The Board evaluates its performance, and that of its The Board then agreed updated priorities for the year ahead
committees, every year and is facilitated externally at least once which encapsulated the actions identified at each stage of the
every three years. External evaluations were facilitated in 2019 evaluation process. In addition, it was agreed to use the annual
and 2020 by Jan Hall of No 4, a business advisory company. Strategy meeting of the Board and GLT in the Autumn of 2022
to reset and recalibrate the Board for the future as new GSK.
In 2021, the Board and Committee evaluation process was a
composite of three key assessments. First, Korn Ferry Board committees
conducted interviews with each Board Director to elicit their
The review of the Board committees involved questionnaires
views on the ideal future composition of the Board. Directors
being completed by committee members. Each committee was
were provided in advance with information on peer company
considered to operate effectively. To enhance their performance
Board composition and committees as an input to these
further, the following improvement points were agreed:
discussions. The conversations with Board Directors covered a
range of topics including: – Corporate Responsibility: to continue to bring direct
external stakeholder perspectives into the Committee’s
– The key challenges and opportunities for GSK over the next
discussions to provoke quality debate in respect of the
five years (eg science, M&A, China, areas of management company’s Trust priority
strength and support)
– Audit & Risk: to continue to balance the Committee’s work
– The culture of GSK
between current issues and longer term perspectives. The
– Which skills and experience to prioritise in recruiting new Committee would also continue to seek more focused
Non-Executive Directors to the Board. The imperatives and materials to enhance its oversight further
desirable attributes were considered against the strategic
– Remuneration: to bring more external perspectives on
opportunities that lie ahead and
changing remuneration practice and trends to the Committee’s
– The workings of Board committees and how they obtained attention to ensure it remained contemporary in its thinking
external input
– Nominations & Corporate Governance: to focus on delivery
The findings formed the basis for the transition plan and of the transition plan to create the optimal composition for the
optimal composition of the new GSK Board. The Nominations & new GSK Board
Corporate Governance Committee report on page 107 explains
– Science: to continue to support the CSO and his leadership
how the results of this work are being taken forward. The next
team whilst providing its perspectives and opinions on R&D’s
step followed the annual Board and GLT strategy meeting, when
work
Non-Executive Directors formed three groups to discuss their
thoughts on the day’s discussions. They agreed their key insights Chair
and priorities. These were then debated by the Board the next
The SID sought feedback from each of the Directors on the
day. The conclusions reached were incorporated into the Board’s
performance of the Board and Chair. The unanimous view was
priorities for action in 2022. Finally, Non-Executive Directors
that the Board is functioning very effectively and has been
completed a short questionnaire on the performance of the
continually strengthened; and the Chair has provided excellent
Board and its committees during the year. The responses were
leadership throughout an important and eventful year. Board
collated and summarised before being considered by the Board.
culture was very inclusive and purposeful in focusing on the
really important issues of strategy, performance and talent.
Progress on 2020 Board evaluation
Progress against the conclusions of the 2020 Board evaluation review is set out below.
Areas of focus for 2021 Progress/achievements
Consideration had and would continue to be given to stop any unnecessary Board priorities were agreed and adhered to in structuring Board discussions.
tasks to free more time to focus on the priorities with the pre-condition that Key priorities were the key driver in examining performance and transactions.
creating shareholder value was of prime importance This would remain a key focus.
Consideration would also be given to making the best use of the Board’s There was increased use of break-out sessions to focus on and bring different
time during virtual meetings and incorporating opportunities for ‘unstructured perspectives to particular issues. In October, to facilitate greater in person
discussions’ where possible interaction despite ongoing COVID-19 restrictions, the Board, committee and
annual strategy meetings were held at dual sites in the UK and US. The Chair
led the meeting in the UK for UK/European-based Directors and the CEO led
the meeting for US-based Directors. In addition, specific time was set aside
for GLT members to meet with Board members without a set objective or
agenda. These discussions were greatly appreciated by all and a welcome
opportunity to connect.
The Science Committee would look to further deepen its understanding of The Board and Science Committee meeting agendas were designed to
how R&D’s resources were allocated facilitate these deeper dives in line with Board’s agreed key priorities.
See page 106
There was a desire to further enhance root cause analysis that was This enhanced approach was the foundation of the global safety review.
undertaken when incidents or issues occurred. This was to ensure they
could be avoided in the future and as part of the Group’s approach to
further improving performanceBoard committee reports
Inclusion & diversity (I&D): The Committee continued to
Corporate Responsibility Committee
assess the progress of GSK’s I&D strategy and commitments.
report This has included in particular, implementation of changes to
HR processes and monitoring arrangements needed to support
the delivery of the aspirational diversity targets announced in
Lynn Elsenhans
last year’s Annual Report. The Committee considered key
Corporate Responsibility Committee
requirements of strengthening succession planning
I am pleased to present this report, which will be my sixth and arrangements for diverse talent and the application of the
final one as Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee broad concept of ‘equity’ in the workplace to further evolve
(the Committee). the I&D strategy. I&D is an incredibly important part of the
culture at GSK and the Committee reviews and supports the
Role of the Committee comprehensive annual I&D training and awareness session
The Committee oversees GSK’s Trust priority and the undertaken by the Board and all our people.
company’s progress against our Trust commitments, which Charitable giving: GSK has had a tremendous and
reflect the most important areas for responsible and sustainable longstanding commitment to charitable giving and community
business growth. Our Trust priority covers management’s work involvement. The Committee reviewed this existing approach
across ESG factors, and it is integral to GSK’s overall strategy. and how GSK compares to its peers. It considered how to
The Committee has oversight of the views and interests of our leverage this approach to align to GSK’s core purpose, strategy
internal and external stakeholders and reviews issues that could and culture and encouraged its impact to be measured in terms
seriously impact GSK’s business and reputation. of its contribution to the commitment announced at the Investor
Update in June, to positively impact the health of over 2.5 billion
In doing so, the Committee has continued to oversee:
people over the next ten years.
– progress on our Trust commitments through regular reports
ESG performance for new GSK: The Committee reviewed
from GLT members and senior managers
management plans for the six areas of ESG focus for new GSK,
– GSK’s approach to managing the risks and opportunities outlined to investors by the company in June 2021. Working
associated with ESG factors that help create value for with the Audit & Risk and Remuneration Committees, the
shareholders and society Committee reviewed management’s proposals for specific
metrics to measure progress on these six areas and the
– management understanding of key issues and stakeholder
recommendation of the creation of a single ESG performance
perspectives by listening directly to key independent expert
rating assessment as a KPI for GSK after the demerger. It also
voices and
reviewed an approach for the risk management and governance
– the principal risks most relevant to its area of expertise and
oversight arrangements to measure and report ESG
responsibility, namely: product quality, non-promotional
performance. The Committee was pleased to support these
engagement, supply continuity, environmental sustainability
changes to help retain and develop further GSK’s ESG
and health and safety
leadership position.
Key activities in 2021 Consumer Healthcare (CH): In preparation for the demerger,
the Committee has reviewed and discussed with CH
Safety culture: The Committee reviewed progress on the
management their progress in developing a distinctive and
delivery of a global safety improvement plan across GSK’s
holistic responsible business and ESG framework that would
businesses developed after a comprehensive and far-reaching
support its purpose, strategy and culture on becoming a listed
external evaluation of our safety culture. In reviewing the actions
company with a focus on the key responsible business issues
for embedding and sustaining the plan’s safety improvements
for the new company. In doing so, the Committee scrutinised
into the future, the Committee has encouraged a strong focus
this framework and the proposed targets, including
on:
environmental sustainability targets, which have incorporated
– education and training to further build capabilities; while key insights and expectations gathered from investors, analysts
– ensuring there is clear accountability from leaders for safety and other external stakeholders.
through heightened awareness and application of GSK’s
Stakeholder insights and benchmarking
simplified culture to “do the right thing with integrity and care
because people count on us” The Committee pays close attention to the evolving views and
expectations of the company’s broad range of key stakeholders.
It receives a regular report on stakeholder insights at each
meeting to ensure it considers the issues that may have a
bearing on GSK’s reputation and the delivery of our responsible
business agenda. Employee insights and feedback were
discussed in relation to the progression of the company’s
modern employer agenda.
104 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 105
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board committee reports continued
In keeping with a desire to continually bring external Science Committee report
perspectives into the Committee room, in 2021 the Committee
benefited from direct engagement and insights about Dr Jesse Goodman
expectations of our sector and the company specifically in two Science Committee
areas. Firstly, was receiving an expert's insights on investor
I am pleased to present my fifth report of the Science
views on ESG trends and expectations, the outcomes of which
Committee’s (the Committee) activities.
are reported on page 98. Secondly, was gathering expert views
on the rising expectations of governments and investors for
Key activities in 2021
businesses to understand Human Rights impacts and risks.
Since the Committee’s inception in 2017, we have continued
The Committee monitors investor expectations on ESG to refine our focus to provide greater value to the Board’s
reporting and disclosure on an ongoing basis. GSK continues deliberations. In particular, the Committee has focused on
to align to best practice in reporting, in accordance with the ensuring the validity of the key scientific assumptions which
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (see 2021 ESG drive the company’s R&D strategy, as well as providing
Performance Report) and the Task Force on Climate-related technical assurance, particularly in relation to potential
Financial Disclosures (see page 49). transactions.
In addition, the Committee monitors the company’s ESG
performance in various indices and in relation to our peers. In Pipeline progress
this respect, we were particularly pleased that GSK was ranked At the start of the year the Committee closely reviewed the
first in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index in the pharmaceutical 2021 objectives for the biopharma business, including those
industry group, had improved our Carbon CDP rating from B to relating to pipeline progression. Delivering a pipeline to help
A-, and was rated in the top 3% of Sustainalytics’ patients is at the heart of what GSK does and the Committee
pharmaceuticals sub group. These and other external monitors its progression closely, both in terms of strategy and
benchmarks help to evidence GSK’s acknowledged leadership performance. The Committee has held a number of discussions
in ESG, and this continues to be a key driver in the goal to with Dr Hal Barron, our CSO, and with R&D leaders throughout
deliver health impact and shareholder returns. the year and has been encouraged with the progress made as
we approach separation.
Committee aims for 2022
Since the separation was announced in 2018, R&D’s strategy
The Committee will continue to scrutinise and monitor progress has delivered a strong pipeline of assets with the potential to
on GSK’s material Trust topics and relevant enterprise risks. As bring transformational vaccines and medicines to patients.
the company demerges, it will focus on oversight for how GSK Some of the most notable approvals in the last year include:
is embedding its new approach to ESG performance
– Jemperli (dostarlimab) – for the treatment of endometrial
measurement.
cancer, the most common female reproductive cancer. This is
another major milestone for GSK’s oncology pipeline and has
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair succession
the potential to transform the lives of women who previously
I was delighted to welcome Dr Anne Beal, who has brought
had limited treatment options.
extensive healthcare experience to the Board and our
Committee as a physician and public health expert, in May – Cabenuva (cabotegravir, rilpivirine) – the first long-acting
2021. Since then, Anne and I have been working on a smooth injectable treatment for HIV. Cabenuva has the potential to
transition and handover before she succeeds me as Committee transform HIV care for patients by reducing treatment dosing
Chair at the conclusion of the AGM in May. I will continue to days from 365 to 12 per year. In addition, Apretude received
serve as a Committee member to provide continuity and FDA approval in December 2021 as the first long-acting
support, until I retire and step down from the Board at the injectable option for HIV prevention.
conclusion of the demerger later this year. It has been my
In November 2021, the company announced positive phase III
privilege to serve as a member of the Board, to chair this
data for daprodustat, a potential new oral treatment for patients
Committee and help shape and oversee, in particular, the
with anaemia of chronic kidney disease.
development and embedding of a framework of a focused set of
commitments to support the company’s Trust priority and our COVID-19
approach as a responsible business. Listening carefully to all
Regarding our pipeline of COVID-19 solutions, Xevudy
the views of our stakeholders has helped to inform the positive
(sotrovimab), a monoclonal antibody developed in collaboration
steps we have taken in reinforcing our position as a leader in
with Vir Biotechnology, was approved in Europe and received
ESG.
Emergency Use Authorisation in the US as a treatment for
patients with COVID-19. Studies show that Xevudy also retains
Lynn Elsenhans
activity against the Omicron variant. In terms of vaccines, GSK
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
has announced positive phase III results for the plant-based
28 February 2022
COVID-19 vaccine candidate being developed with Medicago.
This vaccine, Covifenz, was approved in Canada in February
2022. In February 2022, we also announced the intention to
seek regulatory authorisation for the COVID-19 vaccine being
developed with Sanofi, based on data from both booster
and phase III efficacy trials.Our Board committee reports continued
In February 2021, we also reported a collaboration with Enhanced R&D governance
CureVac to jointly develop next generation mRNA vaccines for The Committee has been particularly impressed with
COVID-19 with the potential to address emerging variants. developments in R&D governance since Dr Barron was
appointed in 2018. During 2021, Vaccines and Pharma R&D
Scientific deep-dives
were fully united into a single organisation. This has enabled
Innovation remains a key priority for GSK. Therefore, the R&D to be more effective, not just in terms of efficiencies but
Committee has continued to meet with the CSO and our also in the sharing of technical and scientific expertise.
talented R&D leadership to undertake deep-dives into some of
The benefits of these governance enhancements have already
the exciting and complex areas of science that are of strategic
become apparent with improvements made in both cycle times
importance to GSK, including:
across clinical development and the probability of success from
– Immunology pivotal studies.
– Oncology with a focus on Synthetic Lethality Three and a half years ago, management set out a new
approach to R&D. Under Dr Barron’s leadership our pipeline in
– Vaccines mRNA Strategy
2021 stands out as having advanced notably. During 2022, the
The science of the immune system is a key pillar of our R&D
Committee will emphasise the need to continue this momentum
strategy. It will be leveraged to develop novel therapeutics
up to and beyond separation.
as well as potentially revolutionise drug discovery and
development. GSK’s partnership with 23andMe provides the Board and Committee changes
company with exclusive insights in this field which represents
We welcomed Dr Hal Dietz to the Committee on 1 January
an enormous opportunity for R&D to build on a strong existing
2022. His experience in the field of human genetics will add
portfolio. The Committee was pleased to see how immunology
significant value to the Committee’s discussions. His
has already been embedded across GSK R&D, including within
appointment also means that the Committee is very well-
oncology, vaccines, ViiV and infectious diseases.
rounded in the areas of expertise required to evaluate GSK’s
strategy, pipeline and potential business development targets.
Business development
Judy Lewent left the Committee upon her retirement from
In addition to oversight of the company’s organic R&D
the Board after the 2021 AGM. Charles Bancroft joined the
innovation, the Committee has continued to review potential
Committee in May 2021 until February 2022 following the
business development transactions. The Committee receives
appointment of Dr Dietz.
regular previews of potential business development
opportunities being explored and undertakes in-depth technical The Committee participated in the CSO succession planning
reviews of transactions prior to their presentation to the Board. and was fully supportive of Tony Wood's appointment. We are
These transactions have added new programmes which aim to pleased that Dr Barron will join the Committee in August when
differentiate GSK’s pipeline from competitors and support he transitions to a Non-Executive Director.
organic development within the company.
Dr Jesse Goodman
Key transactions reviewed by the Committee during the
Science Committee Chair
year include:
28 February 2022
iTeos: The collaboration with iTeos to co-develop an anti-TIGIT
monoclonal antibody. With this collaboration GSK is well-
positioned to produce next-generation immuno-oncology
therapies, especially those targeting the CD226 axis.
Alector: The collaboration to develop two potential first-in-class
monoclonal antibodies for a range of neurodegenerative
diseases including Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s
disease.
Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals: The exclusive licence
agreement with Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals, under which GSK
will develop and commercialise Arrowhead’s investigational
RNAi therapeutic being developed as a treatment for patients
with chronic liver disease.
Halozyme Therapeutics: The global collaboration and license
agreement between ViiV Healthcare and Halozyme, granting
exclusive access to Halozyme’s ENHANZE drug delivery
technology to enable development of ultra long-acting
medicines for HIV.
Shionogi: The exclusive license agreement between ViiV
Healthcare and Shionogi to develop a third-generation HIV
integrase inhibitor with potential for use in ultra long-acting
HIV regimens.
106 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 107
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board committee reports continued
Nominations & Corporate Governance The CPO, CEO, CSO and Dr Wood then established a
transition plan which was approved by the Committee to ensure
Committee report
a smooth transition should it become necessary.
Jonathan Symonds In January 2022, the Board activated the succession plan
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee following Dr Barron’s decision to accept the position of CEO
and Co-Chair of Altos Labs from August 2022. Since Dr Wood
I am pleased to present my third report as Chair of the
has been a key partner to Dr Barron in delivering GSK’s R&D
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee (the
approach, and has wide experience and expertise across
Committee).
science data and new technologies, he is perfectly placed to
build on Dr Barron’s outstanding progress and to deliver value
Key activities in 2021
from the pipeline. The Board therefore agreed to appoint Dr
The Committee played an important role in delivering our key
Tony Wood as CSO Designate and he will succeed Dr Barron
priorities to transform GSK and separate the CH business. The
as CSO and become a member of the GLT on 1 August 2022.
Committee met 13 times during the year and this report sets out
Further details of his background can be found on page 5 and
our work during 2021.
in the company's announcement issued on 19 January 2022
Key priorities Status which is available on gsk.com.
Succession planning for the CSO and his CSO succession candidate
The Committee also recommended as part of the CSO
R&D Leadership Team identified and subsequently
appointed CSO Designate transition plan that Dr Barron be appointed a Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director and member of the Science Committee
Appoint a Chair of the Corporate Dr Anne Beal joined the Board
Responsibility Committee to succeed in May 2021 with effect from 1 August 2022, initially for a three-year term.
Lynn Elsenhans This would support the CSO transition process.
Appoint a third Scientific & Medical Expert Dr Hal Dietz joined the Board Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
(SME) in January 2022
In my 2020 report, I described the search for Lynn’s successor
Design target GSK Board composition Target GSK Board composition as Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC).
and recruit high calibre Non-Executives to agreed and search for new
This resulted in Dr Anne Beal’s appointment to the Board on
complete the new GSK biopharma Board Non-Executive Directors for
6 May. Anne has brought extensive healthcare experience as a
GSK in progress
physician and entrepreneur, combined with a passion for patient
Appoint the Haleon CEO and assemble Brian McNamara appointed as advocacy. Further details of her experience and the rationale for
an appropriately seasoned management Haleon CEO Designate in July
her appointment are included in the company’s announcement
team 2021. Haleon Management
Team announced in December on 6 April 2021 which is available on gsk.com. A transition
2021 process is underway to enable Anne to succeed Lynn as CRC
Appoint a Chair for Haleon and support Sir Dave Lewis appointed Chair at the close of the 2022 AGM. Despite serving for over
the composition of the Haleon Board Haleon Chair Designate in nine years, Lynn’s experience as a CEO and from sitting on
December 2021. Selection of other boards means that she continues to demonstrate all the
the remaining Haleon Board in
characteristics of independence expected by the Board in
progress
carrying out her role on the Board.
Shaping the GSK Board for the future Third Scientific Medical Expert (SME)
I am pleased to confirm that the search for a third SME was
Management succession planning
successfully concluded. We continued to fine-tune the
The Committee, with all Non-Executive Directors present,
selection criteria as the process evolved and considered the
continuously assess the succession plans for management and
following:
the other Executive Directors to ensure we have appropriate
succession plans and a diverse pipeline of potential successors – An outlook on the future direction of R&D, innovation and the
in place. treatment and management of human health
During 2021, given the importance of the CSO and leadership – Experience of people leadership and management at ‘scale’,
of R&D, the Committee, in collaboration with the CEO, and as either in an academic or industry setting
appropriate the CSO, intensified our planning to identify a
– Interested in, and having a deep understanding of, a breadth
potential CSO succession candidate. The Committee was
of scientific and therapeutic areas, particularly in immunology
supported by the Chief People Officer (CPO) and the Science
as well as genomics and genetics. Having perspectives on
Committee. The Committee followed a comprehensive process
the ability to harness digital technologies (including Artificial
before making a recommendation as described below. This is
Intelligence) to enhance the research and development of
replicated in assessing succession candidates.
new medicines and
The Committee and the Science Committee reviewed a diverse
– Able to deliver complex science to a broad audience. Highly
long list of internal and external potential successor candidates
collaborative and a willingness to engage proactively on
from which a short list of candidates was compiled. These were
topics beyond their own immediate realm of expertise
interviewed by Science Committee members, the Chair, CEO,
CPO and CSO. The Committee was joined by all the Non-
Executive Directors to review the final candidates. Following this
extensive process, the Non-Executive Directors agreed to
identify Dr Tony Wood as the CSO’s successor.Our Board committee reports continued
The Committee was pleased to recommend the appointment The Committee reviewed Brian’s proposed leadership team for
of Dr Hal Dietz to the Board with effect from 1 January 2022. Haleon (in particular the proposed CFO and Chief People
Dr Dietz brings his extensive experience in the field of human Officer) which was announced in December 2021. Following
genetics, which is central to GSK’s approach to R&D and will extensive internal and external searches for each role,
add further strength to the Science Committee and Board shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the relevant panel of
discussions. Further details of Hal’s experience and the rationale Non-Executive Directors against the agreed role criteria. The
for his appointment are included in the company’s announcement Committee then approved the final appointees. The Haleon
on 27 October 2021, which is available on gsk.com. management team was then introduced to investors at the CH
Capital Markets Day on 28 February 2022.
Transition to a new GSK Board
Haleon Chair: The Committee followed its search process to
In planning the structure of the new GSK Board as an select the Haleon Chair. This search focused on candidates
independent biopharma company, the Committee with the following knowledge, experience and commitment:
commissioned Korn Ferry to meet with each Board member to
– Significant listed Board experience with an understanding of
gather their views on the optimal Board design for the future.
investors, analysts, banks, regulators and governments
Further details on this process are given on page 103. A skills
matrix was developed which mapped current Board members’ – A high degree of financial acumen and successful business
skills and capabilities and the succession planning needs for track record in creating shareholder value and growing
the Board. This was discussed with all Non-Executive Directors businesses
and the key capabilities were further refined and a final target
– A strong emphasis on coaching skills and the ability to create
skills matrix was agreed. The Committee then agreed the briefs
a high-performance environment
to initiate the search for three new Non-Executive Directors to
be appointed to the Board in the next 12 to 18 months. The – Deep experience of consumer facing businesses, with a high
Committee is following its search process to recruit for these degree of customer-centricity. International experience,
roles. Long lists of candidates for both roles have been preferably in the US and China
considered. – Strong strategic skills and a track record of innovative
thinking, coaching and development
Haleon Board appointments
– Be well respected and have high credibility with all
The Committee appointed a sub-Committee comprising,
stakeholders, including investors, capital market participants,
the Chair, Vindi Banga, Dame Vivienne Cox, Dr Beal and
regulators and governments
Mr Rohner, to progress Haleon Board appointments. It then
reported progress at each scheduled Committee meeting. – Have high integrity, strong values and be driven by a strong
Final decisions were reached by the Committee with all sense of purpose
Non-Executive Directors invited to participate. – Understand the role of a Chair of a FTSE 100
Haleon CEO and CFO: The Committee conducted an – Possession of humility and a subdued ego and a strong
extensive global search and selection process to appoint the emotional commitment and passion for the CH business
Haleon CEO and CFO designates. This work followed the
– Be committed to diversity in all its forms, resilient and open-
Committee’s search process. In particular, the CEO role profile
minded with strong judgement as well as a natural team builder
contained the key selection criteria and responsibilities the
successful candidate would need to fulfil most especially after The Committee agreed that Sir Dave Lewis, a highly
the demerger. These emphasised the importance of experienced and respected global business leader in consumer
establishing the new Haleon Board to deliver the growth goods and retail, was the most suitable candidate to lead the
strategy and to drive significant shareholder value. This would Haleon Board. It was noted that at the time of his selection he
require a relentless focus on innovation, promoting a high was deemed to meet the independence requirements of the
performance and inclusive culture whilst also operating to the Code. The Committee’s recommendation was subsequently
exacting standards of corporate governance. endorsed by the full Board. Further details of Sir Dave’s
experience and the rationale for his appointment are included in
Following interviews by Board members with internal and
the company’s announcement on 20 December 2021, which is
external candidates, the Board was pleased to endorse the
available on gsk.com.
Committee’s recommendation to appoint Brian McNamara as
Haleon CEO Designate. The Board noted in particular Brian’s Sir Dave is now progressing the search for high calibre non-
strong track record of success in building the CH business and executive directors to build the Haleon Board. To ensure
his considerable experience of FMCG and consumer health. continuity, it is expected that two Non-Executive members of
This meant that he was uniquely suited and the right choice to the GSK Board will transfer to the Haleon Board on completion
unlock the growth potential of Haleon as an independent listed of the demerger. The company’s CH joint venture partner
company. Further details of Brian’s experience and the (Pfizer) has the right to appoint up to two Non-Executive
rationale for his appointment are included in the company’s Directors. The new Haleon Board will be announced publicly
announcement on 22 July 2021, which is available on gsk.com. later in the year as part of demerger arrangements.
108 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 109
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board committee reports continued
Ways of working The Committee worked with a number of executive search firms
The Committee seeks to follow best practice in all the in 2021 who provided additional consultancy services to the
appointments it recommends, agreeing the criteria for each role, company as outlined below:
the most appropriate interview panel, before then considering a – Korn Ferry: general recruitment, executive search and
comprehensive and diverse long list of candidates. Shortlisted assessment services, coaching and other HR-related services
candidates are interviewed and assessed against the chosen
– Egon Zehnder: executive search, assessment and coaching
criteria. Due diligence is then undertaken before the Committee
services to specific senior executives
makes its final recommendation. Executive search firms are
appointed in accordance with the company’s procurement – Heidrick & Struggles: executive search services
policy based on their expertise relative to each role. The
– Spencer Stuart: executive search and assessment services
Committee has agreed that only search firms who were
signatories to the Voluntary Code of Conduct of Executive The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest
Search Firms on gender diversity and best practice would and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against
be engaged. such conflicts.
Board Committee Chair and GLT membership changes
During the year and up to the date of this report, the Committee approved the following changes to the membership of our Board
committees and GLT.
Director Membership Appointment date Retirement date
Charles Bancroft Chair of Audit & Risk Committee Chair 9 March 2021
Member of Nominations & Corporate Governance, and Science committees 6 May 2021 8 February 2022
(stepped down
from Science
Committee after
Dr Hal Dietz joined
the Committee)
Dr Anne Beal Member of Corporate Responsibility and 6 May 2021
Audit & Risk committees 23 July 2021
Dr Hal Dietz Member of Science Committee 1 January 2022
Judy Lewent Chair of Audit & Risk Committee Chair 9 March 2021
Member of Audit & Risk, Nominations & Corporate Governance, Remuneration, 5 May 2021
Science and Transformation & Separation committees
Lynn Elsenhans Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee 4 May 2022
Member of Audit & Risk, Corporate Responsibility and Nominations & Corporate After CH
Governance committees Demerger
Dr Anne Beal Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee 4 May 2022
Shobie Ramakrishnan Chief Digital and Technology Officer and member of GLT 16 December 2021
Board composition, tenure and diversity We are committed to the diversity of our Boardroom, just as
The Board seeks to balance its composition and tenure and GSK is committed to equal opportunities for all employees
that of its Committees, and to refresh them over time. This at all levels of our organisation. The Board and management
enables the Board to benefit from the experience of longer- seek to encourage a diverse and inclusive culture throughout
serving Directors and the fresh perspectives and insights from the company. An effective Board needs a range and balance
newer appointees. Our Non-Executive Directors are drawn from of skills, experience, knowledge, ethnicity, gender, social-
a wide range of industries and backgrounds, including the economic backgrounds and independence, with individuals
pharmaceuticals industry and R&D, vaccines, consumer who are prepared to challenge each other and work
products and healthcare, medical research and academia, collaboratively. This mix needs to be complemented by a
insurance and financial services. Collectively they have a diversity of personal attributes, including character, intellect,
wealth of experience of complex organisations with global judgement, honesty and courage.
reach. Many of our Board members also have experience of
longer-cycle industries, which is of great assistance in
understanding our sector.Our Board committee reports continued
Board and GLT diversity targets Transformation & Separation
The Committee is responsible for developing measurable Committee report
objectives and monitoring progress towards their achievement
to assist the implementation of the Board’s diversity policy,
Jonathan Symonds
including gender and ethnic diversity. Our progress against
Transformation & Separation Committee
these targets is set out below. For consistency, the diversity
metrics as at 1 January 2022 are shown in line with our gender I am pleased to present my second and final report as Chair of
diversity submission to the FTSE Women Leaders Review the Transformation & Separation Committee (the Committee)
(the Review). given that it has now fulfilled its purpose and mandate.
The Committee was established in May 2020 charged with two
Progress achieved
principal functions:
Diversity objectives Status Performance
At least 33% of Board positions Exceed 38.4% – Exercising oversight of the Future Ready transformation
held by women objective programme, particularly delivery of the targeted cost savings
At least 33% of GLT positions Met objective 35.7% and separation of the company’s infrastructure prior to the
held by women delivery team moving from project design into implementation
and
At least 33% of combined GLT Exceed 42.5%
and direct report positions held objective – Considering the optimal form of separation. This also
by women
included the implications of separation and the most
At least one Board Director is Exceed Two Directors appropriate listing location for Haleon
ethnically diverse objective
The Committee was pleased that the Future Ready
The Committee is particularly intent on increasing gender and, transformation programme was completed to schedule by the
especially, ethnically diverse representation on the Board and end of 2021 and exceeded the cost savings identified to be
GLT, and further developing the pipeline of direct reports to the derived from this programme.
GLT from ethnically diverse backgrounds.
During 2021, the Committee undertook a programme of work to
The Committee is supportive of the new gender diversity targets understand and consider the key fundamentals of separation.
in the Review published in late February 2022, including 40% This was not just the technical requirements. It considered how
women on boards by 2025. It has been pleased that for many to best unlock, release and maximise long-term shareholder
years the Board’s gender representation target has been value. This work was supported by guidance and advice from
comfortably exceeded and normally over 40% of Board positions external experts as appropriate. The Committee began by
have been held by women. We are in a transitional period as the considering how we should separate and the principal value to
company separates and the CH business is demerged. The be achieve from each option available. Discussions then
Committee is working to transition to the target Board profile for progressed to the capital structures required for the resulting
the new biopharma company. As a result, the composition and two companies to be competitive as independent entities.
diversity of the Board during this transition will inevitably be Following a decision to demerge the CH business it was
subject to fluctuation. I look forward to confirming completion of important to determine how to distribute shares in Haleon to our
this work in next year’s report and reporting our progress against shareholders, and on which exchanges Haleon should list and
the Review's increased gender diversity targets. why. The Committee also considered whether to retain a stake
The representation of women and ethnically diverse leaders is in Haleon and how big a stake to retain.
covered on page 37, as part of the diversity of GSK’s global This was a very intensive and detailed programme of work as
workforce. Progress against our inclusion and diversity the Committee addressed these major questions and the
commitments, including gender and ethnicity, is illustrated in impact for all our stakeholders. It then reported to the Board
our ESG Performance Report on gsk.com. accordingly on its conclusions and recommendations.
This process is now well into the execution phase. Oversight
Sir Jonathan Symonds of the remaining work more appropriately rests with the other
Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee Chair specialist Board committees and has been devolved to them
28 February 2022 as appropriate, or will be reviewed and overseen directly by
the Board.
Having fulfilled its mandate, it was agreed that the Committee
be decommissioned.
I would like to thank Board colleagues for their commitment and
diligence in supporting the Committee’s work in this respect.
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Transformation & Separation Committee Chair
28 February 2022
110 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 111
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board committee reports continued
Audit & Risk Committee report Our processes and systems
These are fundamental for appropriate financial reporting,
Charles Bancroft controls and managing risks. We are well positioned in this
Audit & Risk Committee respect, as the company’s main accounting and reporting
systems are centralised into two global instances of SAP. We
I am pleased to present this report, which is my first as Chair of
also have a well-established One Finance model with
the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee).
centralised transactional and controller activities embedded in
I joined the Committee back in May 2020. I succeeded Judy GSK’s four regional hubs. This frees up our in-market finance
Lewent as Chair in March 2021 after a comprehensive people to focus on the core business operations and decision
transition. I have been drawing on my business background, making. The Committee continues to exercise regular oversight
including the ten years I served as CFO of the major and monitoring activities over these critical financial systems.
pharmaceutical company, Bristol Myers Squibb. In doing so,
The integrity of our financial statements, including the Annual
I have always viewed people, processes, systems and
Report and quarterly results announcements, is an enduring key
importantly, culture as the critical foundation for successfully
focus of the Committee. Since joining the Board and
managing financial reporting, audit and compliance risks. In my
Committee, I have been impressed with the clarity and rigour
time serving on this Committee and through my observations
around these processes. The Committee’s position has always
more generally as a Board member, I am confident that GSK
been to aim for clear and transparent financial disclosure in all of
controls score highly in all these areas. I would therefore like to
GSK's financial reporting.
share my initial impressions of these key aspects.
As the previous Committee Chair highlighted in her report last
Our culture and people year, we have continued to ensure that the company’s financial
GSK has a strong compliance culture with a consistent tone reporting and controls framework remains robust and did not
and engagement from the top. This is regularly considered and require any fundamental changes. This has been important
emphasised in Committee discussions, and we have a zero- despite the ongoing impact of COVID-19 on the company’s ways
tolerance approach to any unethical behaviour. Our risk of working. In addition, the external auditor regularly tests our
management and internal control framework is mature and well financial systems and controls and challenges management, and
embedded in the organisation as demonstrated on pages 46 reports their results to the Committee. This includes any areas of
and 112 of the Annual Report. This enables the Committee to deficiencies that the external auditor has identified and progress
evaluate and oversee how GSK manages principal and in remediation of issues, all of which are discussed and evaluated.
emerging risks.
Key activities in 2021
The Committee also routinely exercises oversights of
Key decisions: As usual, it has been a busy year for the
improvements to our compliance culture. Everything we do at
Committee. Not only working through its regular programme of
GSK is underpinned by having great people with the right skill
activities, but making important decisions in support of the
sets. Indeed, our corporate governance framework requires
Board’s progression of its key priorities. These have included
good people to make quality decisions and do the right thing.
reviewing, in support of the Board:
As Committee Chair, I have unfettered access to the senior
– further incremental changes to the company’s commercial
leadership and key members of their teams. Regularly
model in China
throughout the year, I met individually with key Committee
attendees from management, including the CFO, General – the company’s new growth ambitions before they were
Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer, Head of Audit & shared at the Investor Update in June 2021 and
Assurance, the Group Financial Controller, the Company
– the move to a progressive dividend policy from 2022
Secretary, and external auditor. Additionally, the Committee
The matters considered and their outcomes are reported on
members have an opportunity to speak at the end of each
pages 96 and 97.
meeting with the external auditor without management being
present. Crucially, we also have the ability to speak with key
Preparation for the demerger
members of management in private sessions or alone as
required. The Committee is also a key CH governance delivery
workstream. We are now increasingly reviewing the technical
aspects of delivery of the demerger. The Committee is
specifically accountable for reviewing and recommending
to the Board approval of key transaction documents and
related matters.Our Board committee reports continued
The Board is ultimately responsible for the decision to Each principal risk has an assigned risk owner, drawn from
demerge, both in respect of the timing and final terms of the senior management, who is accountable for managing his/her
demerger. It will make the recommendation of the transaction to principal risk with oversight by a GLT Member, including setting
shareholders through the publication of the GSK Shareholder and implementing risk mitigation plans. Risk owners report
Circular. The Committee’s role is to scrutinise these documents quarterly on their respective risk management approach and
prior to the Board’s review. This process for both the progress at the ROCC and the appropriate Board Committee.
Committee and the Board will continue to intensify in the first Our Compliance function assists the ROCC and RMCBs.
half of this year as the formal point of separation approaches. Compliance is responsible for advancing enterprise-wide risk
management and for developing risk-based and ethically sound
The Committee has been assisting the CH management in
working practices. It also actively promotes ethical behaviours
establishing a robust internal control and risk management
by enabling all employees to operate in line with our values and
framework ready for separation. The overarching principle has
comply with applicable laws and regulations.
been to replicate GSK’s current internal governance controls
and finance systems and, where necessary, adapt the existing Our Audit & Assurance (A&A) function provides independent
framework and processes. The Committee is pleased that the assurance to senior management and the Board on the
CH business is currently well advanced in setting up the effectiveness of risk management Group-wide, in line with an
governance, processes and organisations to be managing all agreed assurance plan. This helps senior management and the
processes in a ‘business as usual’ environment in Q2 2022. Board to meet their oversight and advisory responsibilities in
fulfilling GSK’s strategic objectives and building trust with
Internal control framework patients and other stakeholders. A&A has a dual reporting line
Our Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced to our CFO and the Committee.
and understandable assessment of GSK’s current position and The Committee receives regular reports from business units,
prospects. Reflecting this responsibility, it is accountable for principal risk owners, Compliance and A&A on areas of
evaluating and approving the effectiveness of GSK’s internal significant risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
controls, including financial, operational and compliance These reports assess the internal control environment within
controls, and risk management processes. each principal risk area, including enhancements to strengthen
We ensure the reliability of our financial reporting, and controls. Following consideration of these reports, the
compliance with laws and regulations, through our internal Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness
control framework. This is a comprehensive enterprise-wide risk of GSK’s internal controls.
management model which supports the Board’s continuous In 2021, through the authority delegated to the Committee, the
identification, evaluation and management of the Group’s Board conducted a robust assessment of the Group’s principal
principal risks, as required by the FRC’s Code. The framework risks. This assessment, which was in line with the FRC’s 2018
is designed to manage the risk of us not achieving our business Code, included consideration of the nature and extent of risk the
objectives. Board is willing to take in achieving GSK’s strategic objectives.
A fit-for-purpose framework – complemented by our corporate The Board, via the Committee, also oversaw the effectiveness
values, culture, expectations and Speak Up processes – of our internal control environment and risk management
ensures that the risks associated with our business activities are processes across the Group for the whole year, up to the
actively and effectively controlled in line with our agreed risk approval date of this Annual Report.
appetite. We believe GSK’s framework provides reasonable, but
A review of the Group’s risk management approach is further
not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
discussed in the ‘Risk management’ section of the strategic
The Board mandates the Group’s Risk Oversight & Compliance report on pages 46 to 54.
Council (ROCC) of senior leaders to assist the Committee
Our management of each principal risk is explained in ‘Principal
in overseeing risk management and internal control activities.
risks and uncertainties’ on pages 275 to 287. The Group’s
It also provides the business with a framework for risk
viability is discussed in the Group risk management section of
management and upward escalation of significant risks. Risk
the strategic report on page 53.
Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) across the
Group promote the ‘tone from the top’ and establish our risk
culture, as well as ensuring effective oversight of internal
controls and risk management processes.
112 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 113
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board committee reports continued
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
In considering GSK’s quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results in the 2021 Annual Report, the Committee
reviewed the significant issues and management judgements in determining those results. It reviewed management papers setting
out the key areas of risk, actions taken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues, and judgements made by management on the
appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2021 are set out in the
following table, with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. The Committee and the external auditor have discussed
the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the
Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 156 to 167.
Significant issues considered by the Committee
in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly and year end reviews of current and
of the financial statements forecast net debt positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group.
The Committee also considered management’s review of the current and longer-term impacts of the COVID-19
pandemic, at the outbreak of the pandemic and at the year end. Following consideration of these assessments,
which included stress testing and viability scenarios, sources of liquidity and funding, forecasts and estimates, the
Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for the preparation of the financial
statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for
and rebates (RAR) accruals customer returns and rebates. The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was £5.0
billion at 31 December 2021 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and
concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the process operated
in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual necessary is set out in
‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 80.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external legal
investigations into the Group’s counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial practices.
commercial practices Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary in respect of
potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to determine if a
provision was necessary, or its amount. At 31 December 2021, the provision for legal matters was £0.2 billion,
as set out in Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with management’s
judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required. At 31 December 2021, a tax payable liability of £0.7
billion, including provisions for uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Group’s balance sheet.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible assets
for potential impairment. The Committee accepted management’s judgements on the intangible assets that
required writing down and the resulting impairment of £455 million in 2021. See Note 20 to the financial
statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered management’s judgement that it was necessary to increase the liability to pay
in relation to ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration as a result of increases in sales forecasts as well as the unwind of the discount and
updated exchange rate assumptions. After cash payments of approximately £0.8 billion in the year, at 31
December 2021, the Group’s Balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of £5.6 billion in relation
to ViiV Healthcare. The settlement with Gilead resulted in a re-measurement of the existing liabilities for the
contingent consideration at the year end and is included in the closing balance.
ViiV Healthcare put option The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option and concurred with management’s
judgement on the valuation of the put option of £1.0 billion at 31 December 2021. The settlement with Gilead
resulted in a re-measurement of the Pfizer put option at the year end and is included in the closing balance.Our Board committee reports continued
Auditor’s reappointment The Committee Chair regularly meets independently with the
External auditor audit partners. The Committee also meets the auditor at the
end of each meeting to discuss progress, as appropriate.
External auditor appointment
Having reviewed the above feedback, and noted any areas of
Last tender May – December 2016
improvement to be implemented by the audit team for 2022,
Transition year 2017
the Committee was satisfied with the:
First shareholder approval of current auditor May 2018
– effectiveness of the auditor and the external audit process
First audited Annual Report and 20-F Year ending 31 December 2018
and
Next audit tender required by regulations 2026
– auditor’s independence, qualifications, objectivity, expertise
There were no contractual or similar obligations restricting the and resources
Group’s choice of external auditor. The Committee considers
The Committee therefore agreed to recommend the
that during 2020 the company complied with the mandatory
reappointment of Deloitte to the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
audit processes and audit committee responsibility provisions
In making its recommendation, the Committee was free from the
of the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory Audit
influence of any third party.
Services Order 2014.
Effectiveness and quality of external audit process Non-audit services
The Committee is committed to ensuring that GSK receives a Our management operates on the presumption that other
high-quality and effective external audit. In evaluating Deloitte’s accountancy firms will provide non-audit services to GSK.
performance during 2020, prior to making a recommendation However, where the external auditor’s skills and experience
on its reappointment in early 2021, the Committee reviewed the make it the only suitable supplier of non-audit support – such
effectiveness of its performance against the criteria which it as for audit-related matters, tax, and other services – it may be
agreed with management at the beginning of 2020. The used, in the best interests of the company. In line with GSK’s
detailed criteria used for judging the effectiveness of Deloitte as non-audit services policy, the Committee must ensure that
external auditor (which are based on audit approach and auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded by
strategy, high-quality independent audit, effective partnership reviewing and pre-approving the external auditor’s provision of
and value for money) and its overriding responsibility to deliver a such services. The company policy complies with the FRC’s
smooth, thorough and efficiently-executed audit for 2021 are 2019 Revised Ethical Standard and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
available on gsk.com. In undertaking its review, the Committee of 2002. It observes the following core policy features on
considered: engaging the external auditor for non-audit services:
– the overall quality of the audit GSK non-audit services policy, key features:
– the independence of Deloitte Process: All non-audit services over £50,000 are put to competitive
tender with other financial services providers, in line with the
– whether Deloitte exhibited an appropriate level of challenge
Group’s procurement process, unless the skills and experience
and scepticism in its work
of the external auditor make it the only suitable supplier.
Deloitte’s length of tenure was not taken into account when
Safeguards: Adequate safeguards are established so that the objectivity
assessing its independence and objectivity, as it was only and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or
recently appointed as GSK’s auditor. However, the Committee compromised.
did consider how effectively it had assumed its role as auditor. Fee cap: The total fee payable for non-audit services should not
The Committee also considered feedback on the 2021 external exceed 50% of the annual audit fee, except in special
audit, through a survey of Committee members and the financial circumstances where there would be a clear advantage in
the auditor undertaking the additional work.
management team at corporate and business unit level. The
survey covered the: Prohibitions: GSK’s policy includes a ‘whitelist’ of permitted non-audit
services in line with the relevant regulations. Any service not
– effectiveness of the auditor’s challenge
on this list is prohibited.
– integrity of Deloitte Pre-approval: All non-audit services require pre-approval as set out in the
table below to ensure services approved are consistent with
– transparency of its reporting to management and the
GSK’s non-audit policy for permissible services. This process
Committee ensures all services fall within the scope of services permitted
and pre-approved by the Committee and does not represent
– clarity of the auditor’s communication and ways of working
a delegation of authority for pre-approval.
– alignment of the 2021 audit to the Group’s investment in
Value Pre-approver
Systems, Applications and Products (SAP) More than £50,000 Committee Chair and CFO
– quality of the audit team’s leadership Between £25,000 and Group Financial Controller
£50,000
– skills and experience of the audit team
Under £25,000 Designate of the Group
Financial Controller
The fees paid to the company's auditor and its associates are
set out overleaf. Further details are given in Note 8 to the
financial statements, ‘Operating profit’ on page 184.
114 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 115
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Our Board committee reports continued
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
Audit and other services comparison (£m)
The need for an annual report to be fair, balanced and
understandable is one of the key compliance requirements for a
2021 1.4 4.2 30.3 27.7 company’s financial statements. To ensure that GSK’s Annual
Report meets this requirement, we have a well-established and
documented process governing the coordination and review of
Group-wide contributions to the publication. This runs in parallel
2020 1.8 26.2 28.3
with the process followed by the external auditor. The
Committee received a summary of management’s approach to
GSK’s 2021 Annual Report to ensure it met the requirements of
2019 1.5 26.6 29.1 the FRC’s Code. This enabled the Committee, and the Board,
to confirm that GSK’s 2021 Annual Report as a whole is fair,
balanced and understandable and provides the necessary
0 10 20 30
information for shareholders to assess the company’s position
Audit and assurance services
Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and treasury-related and performance, business model and strategy.
services
Services relating to the Consumer Healthcare demerger preparation Code of Conduct and reporting lines
Note 8 to the Financial statements provides further details of fees payable to
We have a number of well-established policies (including a
the company's auditor.
Code of Conduct), which are available on gsk.com, together
with details of our confidential Speak Up lines for reporting and
During the year, fees for audit related and other assurance investigating unlawful conduct.
services of £4.0 million have increased by £2.4 million
compared to 2020. This increase is due to work associated
Charles Bancroft
with Deloitte’s reporting accountant role in preparing for the
Audit & Risk Committee Chair
demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business. Including
28 February 2022
audit fees in respect of the GSK pension schemes of £0.2
million, fees for audit related and other assurance services
represent 15.2% of the annual audit service fee (2020: 6.3%).
Excluding the demerger work, fees for audit related and other
assurance services would have represented 2.2% of the
annual audit fee.
The Committee considered that hiring Deloitte to undertake the
reporting accountant role for the demerger was in the best
interests of shareholders because:
– Deloitte possessed the type of expertise, experience, size and
international scope required to handle a major demerger of
this scale and complexity
– the company benefited specifically from Deloitte’s in-depth
knowledge and understanding of our CH business and their
processes and compliance environment and
– management time, that would otherwise have been devoted
to educating another firm on the company’s business and
operations, could instead be spent on delivering the
demerger and creation of Haleon.
The Committee considered the level of non-audit services
incurred as part of its annual review of Deloitte’s independence
set out on page 114 and was satisfied that the auditor continued
to be independent and exercise objectivity throughout 2021.Section 172 statement
Company directors are required by law to promote the success This allows it to build trust and fully understand the potential
of their organisation for the benefit of both shareholders and impacts of the decisions it makes on all our stakeholders. Our
their wider stakeholders, including employees, suppliers and the engagement with GSK’s main stakeholder groups, including our
community. patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and employees
at all levels and across the organisation, are summarised on
This statement aligns to such requirements, as set out in
pages 44 and 45 of our strategic report.
Section 172 and Section 414CZA of the Companies Act 2006
(the Act). It indicates how, during the year, our Directors The company’s governance architecture and processes are
addressed the matters set out in Section 172(1) (a) to (f) of the summarised on pages 94 to 103 of our Corporate Governance
Act when performing their duties. To avoid duplication, it report. This summary explores how the Board considers all
incorporates information from other areas of the Annual Report. relevant matters in making its principal decisions to contribute
The Board considers that the statement focuses on those risks to the delivery of GSK’s long-term priorities of Innovation,
and opportunities that are strategically important to GSK, and Performance and Trust.
consistent with the Group’s size and complexity.
More information on the issues, factors and stakeholders that
the Board considers relevant to complying with Section 172(1)
(a) to (f) of the Act can be found in the locations outlined below.
The Board has had regard to the following matters:
(a) Long-term results (b) Our workforce (c) Our business relationships
The likely consequences of any decision in the The interests of the Group’s employees The importance of developing the Group’s business
long-term relationships with suppliers, customers and others
Strategic report:
Strategic report: Our business model (page 1) Strategic report:
Our business model (page 1) Our culture (page 11) Our business model (page 1)
Chair’s statement (page 3) Being a modern employer (page 37) Our external environment (page 13)
CEO’s statement (page 5) Stakeholder engagement (page 44) Stakeholder engagement (page 44)
Key performance indicators (page 12) Innovation (page 17)
Corporate Governance report:
Risk management (page 46) Performance (page 29)
Board activity (page 95)
Viability statement (page 53) Reliable supply (page 38)
Board progress in 2021 (page 96)
Working with third parties (page 38)
The Board’s approach to continuous
Corporate Governance report: Risk management (page 46)
engagement (page 99)
Chair's governance statement (page 89)
Board-led purpose and culture (page 102) Corporate Governance report:
Board activity (page 95)
Audit & Risk Committee report (page 111) Board activity (page 95)
Board progress in 2021 (page 96)
Nominations & Corporate Governance Board progress in 2021 (page 96)
The Board’s approach to continuous
Committee report (page 107) The Board’s approach to continuous
engagement (page 99)
engagement (page 99)
Board-led purpose and culture (page 102) Remuneration report:
Audit & Risk Committee report (page 111)
Audit & Risk Committee report (page 111) Remuneration Committee Chair’s
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
statement (page 120)
(page 104)
Directors’ pay in a wider setting (page 132)
gsk.com:
Gender pay gap report
(d) The community and our environment (e) Our reputation (f) Fairness between our shareholders
The impact of the Group’s operations on the Our desire to maintain our reputation for high Our aim to act fairly as between members of the
community and our environment standards of business conduct Group
Strategic report: Strategic report: Corporate Governance report:
Trust section including: Our culture (page 11) Chair's governance statement (page 89)
Environment (page 39) Trust (page 34) The Board’s approach to continuous
Environment, Health and Safety, and Ethics and values (page 38) engagement (page 99)
Environmental Sustainability risks (page 48) Human rights (page 38) Transformation & Separation Committee
Climate-related financial disclosure (page 49) Reporting and investigating concerns (page 38) report (page 110)
Anti-bribery and corruption risk (pages 47 and 279) Investor information (page 257)
Corporate Governance report:
Non-financial information statement (page 54)
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
Our approach to tax (page 60)
(page 104)
Corporate Governance report:
gsk.com:
Corporate Responsibility Committee
ESG Performance Report
report (page 104)
gsk.com:
Modern slavery statement
116 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 117
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ report
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and The Nominations & Corporate Governance Committee
our Articles of Association, which contain rules about the reviewed the register of potential conflict authorisations (the
appointment and replacement of Directors. They provide that Register of Conflicts) in January 2022. The Committee reported
Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the to the Board that the conflicts had been appropriately
members or by a resolution of the Board, provided that, if authorised and that the process for authorisation continued to
appointed by the Board, the Director retires at the next Annual operate effectively. The Committee then recommended the
General Meeting following their appointment. approval of the Register of Conflicts to the Board which it
subsequently approved. Except as described in Note 39 to the
Our Articles also provide that all Directors are required to seek
financial statements, ‘Related party transactions’, during or at
re-election annually at the Annual General Meeting in
the end of the financial year no Director or Person Closely
accordance with the FRC's Code.
Associated had any material interest in any contract of
A Director will cease to be a Director if he or she: significance with a Group company.
– becomes bankrupt Our Articles prohibit a Director from voting on any resolution
– ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or concerning his or her appointment or the terms or termination
the Articles of his or her appointment.
– suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves
Independent advice
that he or she shall cease to be a Director
The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take
– has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s
six months without permission and the Board resolves that expense where they deem it necessary.
he or she shall cease to be a Director
Indemnification of Directors
– is prohibited from being a Director by law
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
– resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors
– is required to resign by the Board and former Directors who held office during 2021 and up to the
approval and signature of the Annual Report.
Directors’ conflicts of interest
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to Change of control and essential contracts
avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or We do not have contracts or other arrangements which
indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict with the individually are fundamental to the ability of the business to
company. Our Articles provide a general power for the Board operate effectively. Neither is the company party to any material
to authorise such conflicts. agreements that would take effect, be altered, or terminate upon
The Board reviews any new potential or actual conflict, which is a change of control following a takeover bid. We do not have
recorded by the Company Secretary. Directors are not counted agreements with any Director that would provide compensation
in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover,
potential conflicts. The Nominations & Corporate Governance except that provisions of the company’s share plans may cause
Committee reviews the Register of Conflicts on an annual basis options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a
which the Board subsequently approves. takeover.
On a continuing basis, the Directors are responsible for Details of the termination provisions in the Executive Directors’
informing the Company Secretary of any such new actual or service contracts are given in the full version of the company’s
potential conflicts that may arise or if there are any changes in 2020 Remuneration policy which is available at www.gsk.com
circumstances that may affect an authorisation previously given. in the Investors section.
Even when provided with authorisation, a Director is not
absolved from his or her statutory duty to promote the success
of the company. If an actual conflict arises post-authorisation,
the Board may choose to exclude the Director from receipt of
the relevant information and participation in the debate, or
suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, require
the Director to resign.Directors’ Report continued
The following information is also incorporated into the Directors’
Content of the Directors’ report
report:
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Location in Annual Report
Directors’ report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended Interest capitalised Financial statements,
31 December 2021 comprises: Notes 17 and 20
Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 55
Directors’ report Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Section Pages
Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Corporate governance report 82 to 118
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
Employee engagement 100
Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
Directors’ statements of responsibilities 154 to 155
by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking
Investor information 257 to 310
Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable
The strategic report sets out those matters required to be by a listed subsidiary
disclosed in the Directors’ report which are considered to Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable
be of strategic importance: shareholder
Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements,
Strategic report Notes 16 and 44
Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements,
Section Pages Notes 16 and 44
Risk management objectives and policies 46 to 54 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
and 275
to 287 The Directors’ report
Likely future developments of the company 1 to 81 – has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in
Research and development activities 17 to 28 reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the
Business relationships 38 Directors in connection with that Report shall be subject to
Diversity 37 the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Provision of information to and consultations with employees 11 and 37
– was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February
Carbon emissions 39
2022 and signed on its behalf by:
Section 172 statement 44 to 45
and 116
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chair
28 February 2022
118 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 119
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Remuneration
In this section
Committee Chair’s annual statement 120
Annual report on remuneration 125
2022 Remuneration policy summary 143
2022 Remuneration policy report 144
GSK Annual Report 2021 119
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationRemuneration report
Committee Chair’s annual statement
Dear Shareholder, – Vesting of LTI awards – Only 58% of the 2019 Performance
Share Plan (PSP) award vested. The pre-agreed measures
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee), I
for this award were: R&D new product performance; adjusted
am pleased to present our Remuneration report for 2021. This
free cash flow; and relative TSR, each of which was equally
includes my annual statement explaining the Committee’s work
weighted. Performance was measured over the three years
this year, our annual report on remuneration for 2021, our
to 31 December 2021. 74% of the R&D new product
updated 2022 Remuneration policy report explaining the
measure vested. This reflected delivery in strengthening the
change proposed to align our compensation arrangements for
pipeline and the successful commercialisation of newly
new GSK, and details of how we propose to operate the policy
launched products. The continued strong focus on cash
this year.
management and generation resulted in full delivery of the
adjusted free cash flow measure. Disappointingly, the
Review of 2021 IPT outcomes
company’s relative TSR performance over the last three years
I would like to set the decisions taken by the Committee over
has again resulted in this part of the award lapsing in full. The
the course of 2021 in context against our overall performance.
vested shares will be deferred for two years. See page 130.
Innovation: In terms of innovation, we made significant
– Base salary – Following a review of Executive Directors’
progress in 2021 in further strengthening our R&D biopharma
performance, the Committee agreed that they should receive
pipeline. It comprises 64 Vaccines and Specialty Medicines,
an annual increase of 2% for 2021 in line with increases
with exciting new developments in HIV and COVID-19
provided to the wider workforce in the UK and US. The
solutions.
Committee also agreed to award Dr Barron an increase of
Performance: Overall, 2021 was a year of strong sales 8% from 1 August 2021 to reflect the creation of One R&D.
performance and strategic progress for GSK. We saw Group This new organisation brought together the scientists and
sales growth of 5% CER driven by growth across governance across Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines to ensure
Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare that together they can focus on and invest in what matters
(excluding brands divested/under review). Total earnings across the Group as a whole. (See page 126 for further
declined by 9% CER reflecting the profit on disposal of the details).
Horlicks business in 2020. However, we achieved Adjusted
The 2021 bonus and all awards in relation to 2021 were made
EPS growth (including COVID-19 solutions) of 9% (CER)
in accordance with our Remuneration policy and in determining
ahead of updated guidance. The pipeline for 2022 remains
the outcomes, the Committee carefully considered each
robust, with continued progress in pharma and vaccines.
Executive Director’s performance but did not deem it necessary
Trust: The company continues to build its ESG leadership to exercise discretion or address any anomaly in the
position and during the year was ranked first again in the performance outcomes. This review included an assessment of
Access to Medicines Index for the eighth time in a row. GSK performance against all the relevant measures and in the wider
was also first in the pharmaceutical industry group of the Dow context, especially the company’s Culture and Trust priority.
Jones Sustainability Index, received gold recognition in S&P’s GSK did not access any COVID-19 Government support or job
Sustainability Yearbook and an A- in CDP Climate Change. retention schemes during 2021 or 2020. The dividend policy
was maintained during the year and the company delivered its
2021 remuneration outcomes upgraded financial guidance for the year.
This performance delivery resulted in higher total remuneration
in respect of 2021 for Emma Walmsley our CEO, Dr Hal Barron GSK’s remuneration policy
our CSO, and Iain Mackay our CFO than in 2020. This was due I would like to set out why the Committee is seeking to update
to an increase in variable performance related pay from the our Remuneration policy at this time.
annual bonus through achievement of the adjusted Group PBIT
The past four years have seen a period of significant
financial measure. In addition, the CFO’s remuneration increase
transformation for GSK, the results of which are becoming
also reflected the vesting of his first PSP award since joining the
evident as we seek to fundamentally address long standing
company in 2019.
issues and prolonged Total Shareholder Return under-
The key decisions made by the Committee were as follows: performance. The Committee agreed it was therefore essential
– Bonus – The outcomes for the CEO, CFO and CSO were to review our Remuneration policy ahead of the usual three-year
cycle to define the biopharma business’ new approach to
each determined by reference to performance against the
remuneration.
agreed financial measure of adjusted Group PBIT, and the
Committee’s assessment of their individual performance.
Financial performance resulted in a bonus payment at 104%
of the financial target. The Committee’s assessment of each
Executive’s performance against the personal objectives set
for them at the start of the year is set out on page 129. The
Committee believes the bonus outcomes appropriately reflect
the overall underlying performance achieved in 2021. Full
details are provided on page 128.
120 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 121
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
The policy review has sought to ensure our remuneration To support increased alignment with shareholders, we are
arrangements only reward the delivery of our bold new proposing that any bonus earned in excess of 200% of salary
performance ambitions. The key focus of the Investor Update (ie the maximum under the current Remuneration policy) up to
(IU) ambitions over the next five years is to deliver sales growth 300% of salary (the proposed maximum) would be delivered
of more than 5% CAGR and adjusted operating profit growth of fully in shares deferred for three years. Half of any bonus earned
more than 10% CAGR from 2021. These ambitions exclude up to 200% of salary will continue to be deferred into shares for
contributions from early stage assets, future business three years. This means that in the event management’s
development and COVID-19 solutions. We have significantly performance was such that the IU ambitions were significantly
changed our performance pay out curves to this end to focus exceeded and the increased maximum bonus was earned, only
expectations to over delivery. Going forward, achievement of 100% of base salary would be delivered in cash with the
these ambitions should deliver top quartile performance for our balance being deferred into GSK shares for three years.
sector.
In developing the new remuneration policy, we engaged
Following a comprehensive review, the Committee concluded extensively with shareholders to gain their views and feedback
that the main policy framework remained fit for purpose. Given for which the Committee is very grateful. As a result of this we
that driving long term performance through consistent year on made some adjustments to our approach to quantum and clarity
year short term improvement was the main aim, changing the of the performance measurement that feature in the final
Annual Bonus plan to support and deliver this was determined proposed policy. We are pleased that this process has allowed
to be the key imperative. us to develop a remuneration structure that works for both the
company and our shareholders as we enter a new phase for the
After careful consideration the Committee concluded that the
business post demerger.
changes required to the operation of the Annual Bonus were to:
It is important to note that to achieve the new maximum, annual
– raise the target performance level to align to delivery at or
sales growth and adjusted operating profit growth would each
above the IU ambitions;
be required to be at least 5 percentage points above their
– reduce the reward previously available for lower than “on respective targets. It is acknowledged that such performance is
target” performance; not expected to be a frequent occurrence. However, if achieved
– change the financial bonus measure from adjusted group the Committee believe it should be appropriately rewarded
PBIT to sales growth and adjusted operating profit growth in given the additional value that would be delivered to investors,
line with the key IU ambitions; patients and our people.
– strengthen and focus strategic and operational measures In the event the Annual Bonus financial measures are not
for the Executive Directors to a few stretch and personal achieved the Committee would consider the appropriateness of
objectives aligned to quantifiable IU ambitions, reflecting the other measures paying out.
personal areas of accountability. These would also reinforce In terms of competitiveness, for our CEO, Emma Walmsley, if
our culture and Trust priority; and the maximum opportunity was earned as a result of delivering
– given how fundamental ESG is to our DNA and success, it is the exceptional performance required to reach this, her overall
important to recognise this through a specific performance compensation package would be in the bottom quartile versus
condition to incentivise incremental year on year our global pharmaceutical comparator group. This assumes
improvements against our public ambitions. peers in this group only achieve target bonus. This group
includes companies listed in the UK and Europe.
We have significantly reduced the pay opportunity for less than
“on target” performance. The Committee therefore agreed it Post demerger, as a FTSE 20 company, new GSK will
was important to incentivise and reward truly exceptional pursue an ambitious growth strategy focused purely on
performance, on the occasions it is achieved, to reinforce the biopharmaceuticals. It will compete for talent in the highly
step change in performance culture. As a result, one key policy competitive global pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical
change to the Annual Bonus is proposed. sector where remuneration levels can significantly exceed those
seen in the UK. The proposed change to Annual Bonus has
The current bonus maximum of up to 200% of salary, paid 50%
been designed to strike a pragmatic balance between
in cash and 50% in shares deferred for three years, will be
shareholder expectations for a UK listed business and the
maintained.
commercial imperative and duty that the Committee has to
The change we are proposing is an additional opportunity for ensure the company can secure and retain the best talent. The
material outperformance of our IU ambitions of up to a further additional proposed Annual Bonus opportunity will only be
100% of salary. This means that the maximum potential annual awarded for exceptional outperformance which will underpin
bonus opportunity will be 300% of salary. However, this delivery of significant growth and shareholder value.
additional element could only be achieved if our public
Our remuneration arrangements with the enhanced Annual
ambitions for more than 5% sales growth and more than 10%
Bonus opportunity still remain overwhelmingly weighted to
adjusted operating profit growth were significantly exceeded
delivery of long-term performance. The Committee is therefore
bringing significant shareholder value.
confident that this change to the Annual Bonus is in the best
long-term interests of the company and our shareholders.Remuneration policy implementation for 2022 Each of the targets set this year are for new GSK, they will not
therefore require adjustment following the demerger. The Board
Annual Bonus and LTI performance measures
and the Committee believe that the proposals represent the
We are proposing to implement changes to our Annual Bonus
right approach to appropriately focus and reward executives to
and LTI measures going forward to align them with our IU
deliver our public ambitions and secure strong performance for
ambitions and Trust priority. These metrics will give greater
all our stakeholders.
linkage between our long- and short-term measures. They also
ensure we have a focus on both top line and bottom line growth Salary
which are critical to achieving our IU ambitions as well as The Committee agreed following a review of performance of
ensuring we have a sharp focus on our strategic priorities Executive Directors that they should receive a 3.0% salary
including pipeline, culture and ESG. increase for 2022 aligned with that provided to the wider
For 2022, the: workforce in each of their respective geographies.
– Annual Bonus measures will be: annual Total Sales growth Following the company’s announcement on 19 January 2022,
(30%); annual Adjusted Operating Profit growth (30%); Dr Hal Barron will transition from CSO to a non-independent
strategic and operational (30%); ESG - Human Capital Non-Executive Director on 31 July 2022. The Committee
Management: Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) (10%). determined that given Dr Barron had agreed to remain a
Director he should be treated as a good leaver. He will receive
– LTI measures will be: Relative TSR (30%), Total Sales
his existing salary up to 31 July 2022 and a pro-rated bonus for
growth over 3 years (20%); Adjusted Operating Profit growth
2022. He will retain his existing long-term incentive awards
over 3 years (20%); Pipeline Progress (20%); and ESG:
which will vest subject to performance and on a pro-rated basis.
Environment Composite Scorecard (10%).
From 1 August 2022 he will receive fees as a Non-Executive
The Committee will agree a few key stretch strategic and Director and, subject to shareholder approval, £200,000 per
operational objectives for each Executive Director. They will annum in respect of the additional responsibilities that he will
focus particularly on individual areas of accountability to undertake for GSK and R&D.
underpin delivery of the fundamentals of our strategy in support
Recoupment
our ultimate financial success. For example, the CEO and CSO
will each have clear pipeline delivery objectives. Each Further to the allegations notified to the Group in February 2021
executive’s objectives will also require demonstration of our in respect of Dr Moncef Slaoui, a former Executive Director of
Culture and Trust priority. The Committee will also ensure that the company, the Committee exercised its discretion and
the measures are quantifiable, suitably stretching and align to applied the claw back provisions under the Recoupment Policy
the delivery of our public ambitions. We will provide disclosure in respect of past stock incentives received by Dr Slaoui. In
of performance against these objectives to reassure December 2021, Dr Slaoui agreed to return to the Group
shareholders that they are stretching. $3,860,090 in the form of cash under the Recoupment Policy.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee supported the Consumer Healthcare Demerger
Committee in the key considerations for the design, We are making strong progress towards the separation of the
development and adoption of an aligned approach to our key company into new GSK and Haleon, a new listed Consumer
ESG commitments fundamental to how we operate. We are Healthcare company in mid-2022. The new Haleon Board will
introducing a 10% ESG measure initially into both our short and engage with shareholders on the proposed remuneration
long-term plans, to reward delivery of external ambitions for our arrangements for the new company.
Trust priority, specifically in respect of Human Capital
Management: I&D and our Nature Net Positive and Climate AGM
Net Zero ambitions by 2030. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank shareholders
for their input and engagement during this Remuneration policy
We chose to focus on an element of Human Capital
review, to help shape the new policy presented in this report.
Management for our first annual bonus ESG measure to
During this consultation we were pleased to be able to engage
reinforce delivery of our public I&D targets. An Access to
with approximately 50% of the company’s shareholder register. I
Medicines measure was considered, however, it was agreed
welcome all shareholders’ feedback on this report ahead of our
that given our success in this area it would not be a suitably
AGM. We look forward to receiving your support for our new
stretching target. Whereas I&D is an important business
Remuneration policy and Annual report on remuneration at our
imperative and suitably stretching targets could be set to
Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2022.
warrant additional reward.
Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chair
28 February 2022
122 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 123
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2021 at a glance
2021 Total Remuneration
The following shows the composition of total remuneration paid to Executive Directors in office at 31 December 2021, in
respect of 2021 and 2020.
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay Dr Hal Barron
£8m 80% US$12m 79%
72%
77% US$10m
£6m
US$8m
75%
£4m US$6m
US$4m
£2m 40% 28%
20% 23% US$2m 21%
25% 60%
£0m US$0m
2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Fixed pay – salary, benefits and pension
Performance pay – annual bonus and LTIs earned in respect of the three year performance period ending 31 December 2021
Pay for performance
2021 Annual bonus: financial performance 2019 LTI outcome: performance period ended 31 December 2021
Overall vesting 58%
Maximum
(105% of target) 104%
Relative R&D new
[•]%
Target TSR product
0% 24.66%
Threshold
(95% of target)
Adjusted Group PBIT
33.33%
Performance achieved Vested Adjusted
Maximum performance target Lapsed free cash flow
Executive Directors’ shareholdings (audited)
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those Share ownership vs SOR (multiples of base salary)
of shareholders, they are required to build and maintain
significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive Emma Walmsley 6.5x 9.9x
Directors are required to continue to satisfy these Share
Ownership Requirements (SOR) by holding 100% of their Iain Mackay(1) 0.6x 3.0x
SOR for the first 12 months after leaving GSK and not less
than 50% of their SOR for months 13-24 after leaving GSK. Dr Hal Barron 3.0x 5.7x
Executive Directors and GLT SOR % of salary 0 2x 4x 6x 8x 10x
SOR 31 December 2021 shareholding
CEO 650
Other Executive Directors 300 (1) Appointed with effect from 14 January 2019
Other GSK Leadership Team members 2002022 at a glance
Key change: stronger link between short and long-term performance
– Annual Bonus and LTI performance measures are directly – Target payout under the annual bonus of 100% of salary
aligned to the Investor Update (IU) ambitions will align with our IU ambitions (ie. no increase for
delivering our core ambitions)
– The measures are complementary by design to ensure
in-year performance delivers long-term sustained results – Any reward for the incremental exceptional performance
opportunity to be delivered fully in shares deferred for
– Annual Bonus and LTI performance calibration has been
three years so as to align to shareholder experience, and
toughened meaning reduced reward for below target
performance and maximum reward only for exceptional – Annual Bonus and LTI measures and their alignment
performance with the IU ambitions will be cascaded down to the GLT
and wider organisation
– Maximum annual bonus opportunity increased to 300%
of salary (from 200% of salary) to enable recognition of
exceptional outperformance when achieved
How our incentive measures align to our strategy
AB LTI
Performance measures Alignment to strategy Weighting Weighting
Relative total Alignment with shareholders as participants are only rewarded for strong – 30%
AB LTI
shareholder return shareholder returns
Total sales growth Top line growth to deliver against our IU ambition of more than 5% sales growth 30% 20%
AB LTI
Adjusted operating Bottom line growth to deliver against our IU ambition of more than 30% 20%
AB LTI
profit growth 10% profit growth
Pipeline Increases the emphasis on Innovation and rewards the acceleration and – 20%
AB LTI
strengthening of our pipeline
ESG ambitions Focus on our key ESG ambitions, including our Human Capital Management: 10% 10%
AB LTI
I&D priorities and Nature Net Positive and Climate Net Zero 2030 ambitions
Strategic and Focus on key areas of individual accountability to underpin delivery of our 30% –
AB
operational strategy and public ambitions
Key AB Annual bonus LTI Long-term incentives
2022 Executive Director Remuneration
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay
Fixed remuneration Salary £1,259,855 £915,335
Pension Will reduce to align with wider workforce by 1 January 2023
(% of salary)
Annual bonus Maximum opportunity: 200%, with half of any bonus paid in shares
(% of salary) deferred for three years
Incremental Exceptional Performance: up to an additional 100% of
salary paid in shares all deferred for three years
LTI 575% 400%
(% of salary)
Share ownership requirement 650% 300%
(% of salary)
Dr Hal Barron will transition to a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 August 2022.
124 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 125
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration
2021 Total remuneration (audited)
Fixed pay Pay for performance
Annual bonus Vested LTI Awards
– Maximum opportunity: – Vested at 58%
200% – 2019 PSP awards
Salary – Measures: – Measures:
70% Adjusted Group PBIT R&D new product Total
Benefits 30% Individual objectives AFCF remuneration
– Three year deferral of 50% Relative TSR
could b
Pension into GSK shares
Read more on pages Read more on pages 128 and 129 Read more on page 130 Read more below
126 and 127
2021 Total remuneration (audited)
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay Dr Hal Barron(2)
2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
£000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
Fixed pay
Salary 1,223 1,199 889 871 1,883 1,786
Benefits 134 141 242 155 145 58
Pension 245 245 178 175 651 1,247
Total fixed pay 1,602 1,585 1,309 1,201 2,679 3,091
Pay for performance
Annual bonus(1) 2,275 1,169 1,573 810 3,483 1,741
Vesting of LTI awards:
PSP(3) 4,326 4,277 2,408 – 6,371 6,387
Total pay for performance(4) 6,601 5,446 3,981 810 9,854 8,128
Total remuneration £8,203 £7,031 £5,290 £2,011 $12,533 $11,219
Notes:
(1) Details of the mandatory bonus deferrals in 2021 and 2022 under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) are set out on page 140.
(2) F rom 1 August 2021 Dr Barron’s base salary increased by 8% to reflect the creation of the One R&D organisation. This has brought scientists and governance across
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines together to focus on and invest in what matters most across the Group.
(3) The 2019 PSP was valued based on the closing share price on 16 February 2022 of £15.76 and the closing ADS price of $43.39. Of the vested amounts for the Executive
Directors, the amount attributable to share price appreciation over the performance period was for the CEO £149,246, the CFO £83,092 and the CSO $411,869. The Committee
did not exercise any discretion in relation to the vesting of the awards or share price changes.
(4) The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus, as it determines appropriate. Following due consideration by the Committee,
there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2021 in respect of any of the current Executive
Directors.Annual report on remuneration continued
2021 Total remuneration (audited) continued
The following sections provide details of each element of 2021 ‘Total remuneration’, including how the Committee implemented
the approved Remuneration policy during the year.
Fixed pay (audited)
Salary The table below provides an analysis of Total benefits (grossed
The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive up for tax) received by the Executive Directors in 2021 and
Directors over the last two years compared to increases for the 2020.
2021 Benefits 2020 Benefits
UK and US workforce.
£000 £000
% change Base salary Emma Walmsley
and 2021
effective date 2021 2020 Benefits available to employees 71 62
Emma Walmsley £1,223,160 £1,199,176 Business related services(1)
Iain Mackay 2% from 1 January £888,675 £871,250 Business travel 22 36
Dr Hal Barron $1,821,781 $1,786,060 Other benefits 41 43
Dr Hal Barron(1) 8% from 1 August $1,967,523 – Total benefits 134 141
UK & US employees 2% from 1 April – – Iain Mackay
(1) B ase salary increased by 8% from 1 August 2021 to reflect the creation of the Benefits available to employees 131 149
One R&D organisation. This has brought scientists and governance across
Business related services(1)
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines together to focus on and invest in what matters
most across the Group. Business travel 9 5
Details of salary levels for 2022 are provided on page 136. Other benefits(2) 102 1
Total benefits 242 155
Benefits
Dr Hal Barron $000 $000
The UK remuneration reporting regulations require the company
Benefits available to employees 83 58
to add into each Executive Director’s Total benefits calculation
Business related services(1)
all items which are deemed by tax authorities to be a taxable
Business travel(3) 63 –
benefit for them.
Accommodation whilst on business travel(4) (2) –
These comprise:
Other benefits 1 –
– Employee benefits in line with the policy for other Total benefits 145 58
employees, which may vary by location and role; and
Notes:
– Business related services provided to employees to assist (1) B usiness related services which tax regulations deem to be a taxable benefit in
or enable them to carry out their role, which a tax authority the UK and/or the US.
(2) I ain Mackay’s Other benefits have increased year on year. This is mainly due to
has deemed to be a taxable “benefit” to the individual. membership of a global business organisation which supports his work as CFO
Because these are business expenses, the company meets and is not recognised by UK HM Revenue & Customs so is therefore deemed to
be a taxable benefit. This was not incurred in 2020.
the tax which arises on them and therefore the items are
(3) I ncreased travel costs compared with 2020 following changes to COVID-19
shown grossed up for tax. These can be split into three areas: restrictions.
(4) O ne-off refund of accommodation costs relating to prior year.
– Business travel: includes travel costs for the Executive
Director and as appropriate for their spouse/partner
associated with accompanying the Executive Director on
GSK business which are deemed to be taxable benefits
for the Executive Director.
– Accommodation whilst on business travel.
– Other benefits.
126 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 127
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Fixed pay (audited) continued
Pensions
Please see details of changes to pensions policy on page 145 of the future policy table and its implementation on page 136.
In addition, the Committee previously determined that all current and future UK and US Executive Directors will have their pension
arrangements aligned to the wider UK and US workforce, as appropriate, by 1 January 2023.
Executive Director Member since Pension arrangements in 2021
Emma Walmsley 2010 Pension contributions of 20% of base salary and matching contributions on the first £13,333 of salary, with a cash
Iain Mackay 2019 supplement of 20% of base salary in lieu of pension on salary in excess of £13,333(1) (2).
Dr Hal Barron 2018 The CSO is a member of the 401(k) plan open to all US employees and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan
(ESSP), a savings scheme open to US executives to accrue benefits above the 401(k) plan limits.
He receives 38% of base salary, less a contribution to the 401(k) and ESSP equivalent to 5% of total base salary
and bonus (net of the bonus deferred under the DABP). In addition, in line with the wider US workforce, from 1
January 2021, a combined contribution rate under the 401(k) and ESSP plans of 11% (7% core contribution plus
a match of up to 4%) of total base salary and bonus (net of the bonus deferred under the DABP).
(1) As a member of the defined contribution plan, Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay are eligible to receive a matching award of up to 5% on the first £13,333 of their salaries in
accordance with the terms of the plan.
(2) Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay receive cash payments in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in excess of £13,333, in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values set out on page 125. The pension remuneration figures have been
calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2008 (Remuneration regulations).
Emma Walmsley Iain Mackay Dr Hal Barron
2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 2020
Pension remuneration values £000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
UK defined contribution 3 5 3 5 – –
US defined benefit – – – – 350 1,059
Employer cash contributions 242 240 175 170 301 188
Total pension remuneration value 245 245 178 175 651 1,247
Further details regarding the 2021 pension values for Dr Hal Barron are set out in the table below. The pensions figures disclosed
for Dr Hal Barron, who is a member of the US style defined benefit plans, are in accordance with paragraph 10.e.ii of Schedule 8 of
the Remuneration regulations.
The table shows the accrued benefit (ie the annual pension accrued to date). In accordance with the Remuneration regulations, the
pension remuneration in 2021 was calculated as the increase in the accrued benefit, adjusted for inflation and multiplied by 20 to
reflect the fact that the benefit will be received for a number of years. The normal retirement age under the Cash Balance Pension
Plan is age 65. There is no additional benefit for retiring early.
Accrued pension Pension remuneration
31 December 2021 31 December 2020 value for 2021
Dr Hal Barron pension values $000 $000 $000
US – Funded 2 2 (6)
US – Unfunded 187 158 356
Total 189 160 350Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual bonus
30%
70%
Individual Annual bonus
Adjusted Group PBIT
objectives
2021 performance against targets
For 2021, the performance measures and weightings were as follows:
Weighting 2021 Adjusted Group PBIT performance
Positioning
Performance measure Executive Directors 2021 target Outcome against target
Adjusted Group PBIT 70% £8,254m £8,562m 104%
Individual objectives 30%
Threshold and maximum performance targets were set at 95% and 105% of target respectively.
The Adjusted Group PBIT target and outcome for the purposes of the Annual bonus calculation differ from Adjusted Group PBIT
disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report, primarily because both the target and outcome numbers are calculated by applying
GSK’s budget exchange rates and not actual exchange rates.
The following table shows actual bonuses earned compared to the bonus opportunity for 2021:
2021 bonus opportunity 2021 bonus outcome
Financial Individual Total 2021 Total 2021
Target Maximum 2021 performance objectives bonus bonus
Bonus (% of salary) (% of salary) Base salary (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) 000
Emma Walmsley £1,223,160 60 186 £2,275
Iain Mackay 100 200 £888,675 126 51 177 £1,573
Dr Hal Barron $1,967,523 51 177 $3,483
Details of the mandatory deferral by Executive Directors into the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan of 50% of annual bonus earned are set
out on page 140.
The table below provides more detail on delivery against Adjusted Group PBIT:
Financial performance
– Overall an encouraging performance exceeding updated guidance despite the uncertainties of the COVID-19 pandemic.
– Delivered full-year reported Group sales of £34 billion (stable AER, +5% CER) with strong commercial execution driving CER growth
across Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare (excluding brands divested/under review) including COVID-19 solutions
sales of £1.4 billion.
– Adjusted Group PBIT of £8,839 million above target driven by higher sales and effective cost control. Outcome adjusted to exclude the
commercial benefit from COVID-19 solutions.
– Adjusted EPS of 113.2p (-2% AER, +9% CER), ahead of guidance including COVID-19 solutions, delivery driven by higher sales and
effective cost control.
128 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 129
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
The following table summarises performance against the scorecard of individual objectives agreed by the Committee for each
Executive Director, in addition to their contribution to the financial performance for 2021:
Individual objectives Achievements
Emma Walmsley
The Committee determined that the CEO clearly exceeded or met her individual objectives. 2021 was a highly successful year of focus and
acceleration against GSK’s long-term IPT priorities, and the company exceeded its financial targets. GSK is on track for separation to unlock the
potential of two new growth companies in a landmark year for the company in 2022:
Strengthen pipeline and – Continued progress in strengthening and advancing Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines pipeline, with 43 potential new
build GSK’s reputation medicines and 21 vaccine candidates in development
for Innovation – COVID-19 solutions focussed on prevention and treatment, including Xevudy (sotrovimab) launched for treatment,
with positive data against Omicron
Drive growth and return – Delivered EPS ahead of initial and updated guidance, with sales growth driven by commercial execution excellence.
on investment Pharmaceuticals sales £17.7 billion, Vaccines £6.8 billion and Consumer Healthcare £9.6 billion
Demonstrate continued – Transformed Specialty Medicine commercial capabilities and effectiveness across key markets
commercial execution – Exceptional supply chain reliability through continued COVID-19 disruption, and continued network strengthening and
excellence simplification
Deliver separation – All demerger milestones on track.
programme milestones – New ambitions set out for new GSK to deliver a step change in growth and performance, and health impact at scale
Demonstrate strong – Sustained leading ESG performance, with delivery against all Global Health, Environment and Inclusion and Diversity
Environmental, Social and commitments. Maintained sector-leading rankings in key ESG indices, as well as progress to deliver on climate and
Governance (ESG) credentials nature commitments
and build trust in future delivery
Demonstrate strong culture – Culture and talent to deliver success for both new companies, and strong progress to build a stronger, more diverse
and leadership workforce (40% senior female representation; on track for 2025 gender and race & ethnicity aspirations)
– Continued development and succession planning for leadership team roles, with internal candidates appointed Chief
Scientific Officer Designate and Chief Digital and Technology Officer
Iain Mackay
The Committee determined that the CFO successfully met his individual objectives:
Demonstrate financial – Strong financial leadership, with key role in delivery of Investor Update setting out competitive growth profile for new GSK
leadership – Delivered full year reported Group sales of £34.1 billion (stable at AER, +5% CER)
Demonstrate financial – Adjusted EPS of 113.2p (-2% AER, +9% CER) ahead of updated guidance, delivery supported by cost discipline and
oversight and cost discipline initial savings from scale transformation programme
Deliver separation – Separation preparations on track, including corporate finance and capital market readiness
programme milestones
Demonstrate strong culture – Strong oversight across Finance and Tech during transformation, including appointment of new Head of Investor Relations
and leadership and Chief Digital and Technology Officer
Dr Hal Barron
The Committee determined that the CSO successfully met his individual objectives:
Strengthen pipeline and – Continued R&D momentum both in R&D delivery and strengthening of pipeline, with pipeline progress targets exceeded.
build GSK’s reputation 12 approvals, 8 Phase III starts and 6 Phase II starts. 43 potential new medicines and 21 vaccine candidates in
for Innovation development. Business development to augment the pipeline, including: Vir, iTeos, Alector and Halozyme
Drive growth and return – Continued progress to improve R&D productivity and success rates, including achieving US FDA emergency use
on investment authorisation for Xevudy in 13 months from deal signing with Vir in pre-clinical phase. This medicine has proven effective
against multiple COVID-19 variants, including Omicron
– Creation of One R&D organisation, bringing scientists and governance across Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines together to
focus on and invest in what matters most
Demonstrate strong culture – Continuing focus on top talent in key roles in R&D (80%, with 31% of new talent in key roles external hires). Robust
and leadership succession planning, including appointment of new Global Head of Vaccines R&D and Global Head of Oncology
Development
Malus and clawback policy
For details of our existing policy on malus and clawback, please resolved, where it is legally permissible to disclose and where
refer to the company’s 2020 Remuneration policy report on it can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and
page 144 of the 2019 Annual Report, available on gsk.com. therefore shareholders.
The Committee reviews and discloses whether it (or the In line with these disclosure guidelines, the Committee has
Recoupment Committee) has exercised malus or clawback. exercised one instance of clawback during 2021. For further
Disclosure is only made when the matter has been the subject details on this recoupment by the Committee please see
of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully page 122.Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Other policies
For details of our existing policies on recruitment remuneration, loss of office and termination payments, please refer to the
2020 Remuneration policy report on pages 141 to 150 of the 2019 Annual Report, available on gsk.com. No changes to our loss of
office policy are proposed in the 2022 Remuneration policy.
Value earned from long-term incentives (LTIs)
The following tables set out the performance achieved against the targets set for the company’s LTI plans and also includes
an update on performance of outstanding awards.
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, for each measure applicable to the LTI awards, actual performance against
the targets is reviewed and adjustments made as appropriate to ensure that the vesting outcome reflects genuine underlying
business performance and that results are being delivered in line with our Culture and Trust business priority.
2019 PSP awards with a performance period ended 31 December 2021
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP awards granted to Executive Directors against the targets set. The Adjusted
free cash flow (AFCF) target was revised in line with the disclosure on page 121 of the 2020 Annual Report. It has been further
restated to take account of the revised phasing of the Future Ready programme restructuring cash payments, separation costs and
revised timing of divestments based on detailed programme and separation planning undertaken in 2021. As a result, the target was
increased by £0.21 billion to £11.48 billion.
For 2021, the 2019 PSP was valued based on the closing share price on 16 February 2022 of £15.76 and the closing ADS price of
$43.39. Of the vested amounts for the Executive Directors, the amount attributable to share price appreciation over the performance
period was for the CEO £149,246, the CFO £83,092 and the CSO $411,869. The Committee did not exercise any discretion in
relation to the vesting of the awards or share price changes.
The performance achieved in the three years to 31 December 2021 and the vesting levels are set out in the table below.
Outcome and vesting level
Performance measures % of % of
and relative weighting Performance targets Outcome maximum award
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new £11.12bn 74 24.66
performance products launched in the three-year performance period and the preceding two
(1/3rd) years, ie 2017-21.
Target % vesting
Maximum £12.25bn 100%
£11.14bn 75%
£10.58bn 50%
Threshold £10.02bn 25%
Adjusted free In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included adjustments £14.53bn 100 33.33
cash flow for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements, exchange rate
performance movements and special pension contributions.
(1/3rd)
Original Revised
target target(1) % vesting
Maximum £13.91bn £13.20bn 100%
£13.31bn £12.63bn 75%
£12.10bn £11.48bn 50%
Threshold £11.74bn £11.14bn 25%
(1) T he revised target has been further adjusted since the 2020 Annual Report as noted above.
Relative TSR Ranked 10th 0 0
TSR ranking within comparator group(2) % vesting
performance
Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
(1/3rd)
4th 70%
5th 40%
Threshold(3) Median 25%
6th to 10th 0%
(2) T SR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GSK,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
(3) T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 25% vesting for median performance.
In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls between two companies.
Total vesting in respect of 2019 awards 58% 57.99%
130 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 131
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Update on performance of ongoing LTI awards
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the PSP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2020 and 2021.
The following charts provide an estimate of the vesting levels taking into account performance to 31 December 2021. Actual
vesting levels will only be determined based on performance over the full three-year performance periods. The indications below
should therefore not be regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels. The AFCF threshold and associated vesting scales for
the 2020 and 2021 PSP awards have been adjusted. The net overall impact is an increase of £0.17 billion to £10.09 billion for the
2020 award and an increase £0.40 billion to £8.66 billion for the 2021 award.
These adjustments are to take account of the following items: revised phasing of the Future Ready programme restructuring cash
payments based on detailed programme planning undertaken in 2021, and revised dividends to non-controlling interests (ViiV
Shionogi and Pfizer).
There are no changes to the targets set for the Innovation sales (previously named R&D new product) or the relative TSR
performance measures for the 2020 and 2021 awards.
2020 PSP award 2021 PSP award
Ranked 3rd 122% of Ranked 3rd 122% of
or above £11.60bn threshold or above £9.96bn threshold
Maximum
Commercially Commercially Commercially Commercially
Median £10.09bn sensitive sensitive Median £8.66bn sensitive sensitive
Threshold
Relative Adjusted free Innovation Pivotal trial Major Relative Adjusted free Innovation Pivotal trial Major
TSR cash flow sales starts regulatory TSR cash flow sales starts regulatory
(30%) (30%) (20%) approval (30%) (30%) (20%) approval
milestones milestones
Estimated vesting level Estimated lapsing level Pipeline progress Pipeline progress
(20%) (20%)
For threshold performance 25% of each award will vest in respect of each performance measure. Individual 2020 LTI award levels
appear on page 121 of the 2020 Annual Report. They are set out below for the 2021 LTI awards.
Historical vesting for LTI plans
Vesting %
Year of Adjusted free R&D new Business Lapsed Total vested
grant Relative TSR cash flow product diversification % %
2011 0 13 16 11 60 40
2012 0 0 7 7 86 14
2013 0 0 21 17 62 38
2014 0 0 33 67 33
2015 15 21 33 31 69
2016 0 26 33 41 59
2017 0 33 33 33 67
2018 0 33 33 33 67
2019 0 33 25 42 58
2021 LTI awards
The 2021 DABP awards (in respect of the deferral of 2020 bonus) and the 2021 PSP awards are shown in the table below.
2021 DABP awards 2021 PSP awards
2020
% of total bonus Number of Face value Award level as % Number of Face value
deferred shares of award(1) of base salary shares of award(2)(3)
Emma Walmsley 45,779 shares £0.585m 575% 550,757 shares £7.0m
Iain Mackay 50% 31,725 shares £0.405m 400% 278,363 shares £3.6m
Dr Hal Barron 24,355 ADS $0.871m 500% 254,794 ADS $9.1m
(1) The face values of the DABP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £12.77 and an ADS price of $35.75, being the closing prices on 9 February 2021 (the day before
grant). These are nil-cost options for the UK Executive Directors and restricted shares for the US Executive Director. No performance conditions are attached to the DABP awards,
as they reflect the mandatory 3 year deferrals in respect of the 2020 annual bonus earned.
(2) The face values of the PSP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £12.77, and an ADS price of $35.75, being the closing prices on 9 February 2021 (the day
before grant). These are conditional shares, based on the performance measures outlined above.
(3) The performance period for the 2021 PSP awards is from 1 January 2021 to 31 December 2023. Awards vest at 25% of maximum for threshold performance.Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting
Internal context
In setting executive pay it is important that the Committee and I do so with a good understanding of our wider workforce pay. To
that end on an annual basis I meet with our Human Resources Business Leaders of Global Support Functions, Pharmaceuticals,
ViiV Healthcare, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare to understand perspectives on pay and GSK’s remuneration package for
the wider workforce. This year was the third such annual meeting I have held. I was pleased to discuss progress on the Group’s
human capital management and I&D agenda to attract and retain diverse talent which lies at the heart of the company’s
fundamental commitment to the equity of its employment and reward practices.
At the meeting, we covered the current Reward environment for employees across the enterprise and notable global competitive
challenges facing the company; namely:
– Competitive pressures for in-high demand skills in our businesses and the actions taken to attract and retain key talent in
these areas
– Handling different pay levels across the Group and in different geographies. This included where the company was
experiencing particular pay challenges currently or were anticipated to experience in the future and the mitigatory steps that
were being taken to address these
– Preparation of a competitive Reward strategy and programmes for the Consumer company for implementation after the
demerger
– Progress against the company’s publicly disclosed gender and ethnically diverse leader aspirations. We discussed the
country-based reviews and the clear guidance, tools and support provided to markets to ensure pay equity
Finally, Dame Vivienne Cox, our Workforce Engagement Director and member of the Committee, ensures that employee views
and perspectives on pay and reward are reflected in the Committee’s discussions.
Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chair
Remuneration structure for employees during 2021
Element Wider workforce pay Comparison with Executive Director and GLT pay
Salary – The market competitiveness of salaries across the company – For our Executive Directors and for the GLT, ordinarily
is assessed at a local market level. The competitiveness of following a performance review, increases in base salaries
roles, which is measured against the external market and are in line with the average of the wider employee
internal peers, is kept under regular review population unless there is a change in scope of the
individual’s role, responsibilities or experience
Pensions – The company seeks to provide an appropriate pensions – Our Executive Directors and the GLT are eligible to
and and benefits package that is aligned to competitive receive benefits broadly in line with the policy for our other
benefits market practices in those countries in which the employees, which may vary by location
company operates and our employees are based – Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with
where our Executive Director or GLT member is expected
to retire. Current and future UK and US Executive
Directors will have their pension arrangements aligned to
the wider UK and US workforce by 1 January 2023
Annual – With the exception of our sales force, who participate in – Our Executive Directors and the GLT participate in a plan
bonus separate arrangements, our wider workforce participates based on an assessment of a combination of stretching
in a plan based on performance against four business financial / business and personal objectives
and financial measures (three measures for Consumer – Our Executive Directors are required to defer 50% –
Healthcare). This is structured to reflect the priorities of and the GLT 25% – of any bonus earned into shares or
the specific business area ADSs as appropriate for three years
– This plan is designed to reward our employees’ collective – Clawback and/or malus provisions apply
contribution to business achievement. Separate
mechanisms are in place to recognise outstanding
individual performance or to address under-performance
LTI plans – Our employees at Senior Vice President (SVP) and Vice – Our Executive Directors and the GLT are granted annual
President (VP) level participate in the same PSP as our PSP awards with the same performance targets and
Executive Directors and the GLT with the same periods
performance targets and periods – Our Executive Directors are required to hold vested
– Clawback and/or malus provisions apply awards for an additional two-year period
– Our SVP and VP employees, together with Directors and – Clawback and/or malus provisions apply
Managers below the GLT, receive annual Share Value – Our Executive Directors and the GLT do not receive Share
Plan awards of restricted shares Value Plan awards following appointment
132 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 133
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting continued
CEO pay ratios Supplemental/Additional ratios
(Lower (Upper GSK’s CEO pay ratio is likely to vary, potentially significantly, over
Quartile) (Median) Quartile) time since it will be driven largely by CEO variable pay outcomes.
Financial year Methodology P25 P50 P75
In line with our reward principles, the CEO has a larger portion of
2021 154:1 108:1 67:1
her pay based on performance than the individuals at P25, P50
2020 Option A 130:1 96:1 62:1
and P75. This means that depending on GSK’s performance the
2019 160:1 119:1 73:1
ratio could increase or decrease significantly. The Committee
The pay ratios above are calculated using actual earnings for believes that our senior executives should have a significant
the CEO and UK employees. The CEO total single figure proportion of their pay directly linked to performance.
remuneration of £8,203,422 for 2021 and £7,031,871 for
In light of this we have also provided supplemental ratios,
2020 are detailed on page 125 of this Report.
where LTI compensation has been excluded. We believe
Total remuneration for all UK full-time equivalent employees of this provides an additional view as LTIs formed a substantial
the company on 31 December 2021 has been calculated in line percentage of the CEO’s total remuneration, which is highly
with the single figure methodology, except for employer pension variable and dependent on business performance. The CEO
contributions for employees with a Defined Benefit pension due 2021 total remuneration excluding LTI compensation is
to the cost and complexity of such calculations. Instead, the £3,877,617.
Future Service Rate agreed at the most recent actuarial funding
Financial Year Methodology P25 P50 P75
valuation has been used for these employees. Otherwise this
2021 73:1 51:1 34:1
reflects their actual earnings received in 2021 (excluding
2020 Option A* 51:1 38:1 26:1
business expenses), which were used to produce the percentile
2019 65:1 48:1 32:1
calculation under Option A of the Remuneration regulations.
Business expenses have been excluded as they are reimbursed * Total remuneration less vesting of long-term incentive awards.
to employees and not sufficiently substantial in value to
Historic CEO remuneration
significantly impact the ratios.
Emma Walmsley £000
GSK continues to choose Option A because it is the most 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
robust and statistically accurate way for the company to Total remuneration 8,203 7,031 8,0945,8874,883(1)
calculate the three ratios from the options available in the Annual bonus award(2) (% of maximum) 93% 49% 79% 93% 77%
Remuneration regulations. The increase in the pay ratio for Vesting of LTI awards (% of maximum) 58% 67% 67% 59% 69%
2021 is due to a higher level of bonus received compared to
Sir Andrew Witty £000
2020, reflecting higher business and individual performance.
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013
Set out in the table below are the base salary, and total pay and Total remuneration 715(2) 6,8306,661 3,902 7,207
benefits for each of the percentiles. Annual bonus award(2) (% of maximum) 0%(2) 97%100% 42% 88%
Vesting of LTI awards (% of maximum) 0%(3) 33% 38% 14% 31%
2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
£ P25 P50 P75 (1) Emma Walmsley’s total remuneration includes her pay for the period 1 January
Salary 37,251 36,924 34,510 51,492 50,000 47,029 72,997 70,203 66,561 to 31 March 2017, before she became CEO.
Total (2) Sir Andrew Witty received a pro-rata payment for 2017 in lieu of a variable bonus
opportunity, in accordance with the 2014 Remuneration policy.
pay and
benefits 53,151 54,133 50,467 76,234 73,340 68,200 122,852113,830110,638 (3) PSP and DABP awards for Sir Andrew Witty granted in 2015 did not vest until April
2018, in accordance with the terms of the Executive financial recoupment policy.
The Committee believes that the median pay ratio is consistent
with the company’s pay, reward and progression policies.
The base salaries of all employees, including the Executive
Directors, are set with reference to a range of factors including
market practice, experience and performance in role.Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting continued
Percentage change in remuneration of Directors
2021 percentage change 2020 percentage change
Salary/fee Benefits Bonus Salary/fee Benefits Bonus
% % % % % %
UK Employees(1) 2.0 0.0 4.85 2.5 0.0 1.1
Executive Directors(2,3)
Emma Walmsley 2.0 (5.0) 94.6 8.0 (26.6) (33.4)
Iain Mackay 2.0 56.1 94.2 5.6 11.5 (31.6)
Dr Hal Barron 5.4 150.0 100.1 2.5 (91.2) (34.9)
Non-Executive Directors(2,4)
Sir Jonathan Symonds – 50.0 – 201.7 0.0 –
Charles Bancroft(5) 156.1 – – – – –
Vindi Banga (4.6) (50.0) – 23.6 (50.0) –
Dr Anne Beal(5) – – – – – –
Dame Vivienne Cox (5.6) (50.0) – 55.4 (75.0) –
Lynn Elsenhans (7.3) (75.0) – (12.3) (73.3) –
Dr Laurie Glimcher (8.3) (61.8) – (18.2) (55.3) –
Dr Jesse Goodman (5.6) – – (12.5) (65.2) –
Urs Rohner (5.6) 175.0 – 16.3 (69.2) –
Judy Lewent(6) (73.8) (25.0) – (17.6) (85.4) –
(1) The UK employee population was considered to be the most relevant comparison as it most closely reflects the economic environment encountered by the majority of the Executive
Directors.
(2) Percentage changes have been calculated based on the 2021 Total remuneration table on page 125 for Executive Directors and the 2021 Total fees table on page 139 for
Non-Executive Directors.
(3) Further information on salary and benefits for Executive Directors can be found on page 126. Further information on annual bonus for Executive Directors can be found on page 128.
(4) Fees of Non-Executive Directors include fees received as cash and in the form of shares or ADS under the terms of the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan.
(5) Charles Bancroft and Dr Anne Beal were appointed to the Board on 1 May 2020 and 6 May 2021 respectively.
(6) Judy Lewent retired from the Board on 5 May 2021.
Relative importance of spend on pay Participants of the company’s Share Save plan may save up to
The table shows total employee pay and the Group’s dividends £250 a month for three years and at the end of the period have
paid to shareholders. the option to buy GSK shares at a 20% discount to the share
Change 2021 2020 price at the start of the savings contract. Participants of the
% £m £m
Share Reward plan contribute up to £125 a month to purchase
Total employee pay (12.2) 9,003 10,249
GSK shares which the company then matches.
Dividends paid in the year 0.6 3,999 3,977
For further details see page 140.
The figures in the table above, which reflect payments made
during each year and the impact of movements in exchange Dilution limits
rates, are as set out on pages 185 and 192. However, dividends All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution
declared in respect of 2021 were £4,006 million (2020 – limits consistent with the guidelines published by the Investment
£3,989 million) an increase of 0.4%. Association. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten-year period
Total employee pay is based on 91,961 employees, the average for all plans and 5% in any rolling ten-year period for executive
number of people employed during 2021 (2020 – 95,884). share plans (granted to senior executives). Estimated dilution
from existing awards made over the last ten years up to 31
There were no share repurchases made by the company
December 2021 is as follows:
during 2021 and 2020.
All-employee share plans
UK Executive Directors may participate in HMRC approved All GSK employee share plans
all-employee share plans with the wider UK workforce, ie.
Share Save and Share Reward plans.
1.56% 10%
10%
0 02 04 06 08 10
Executive share plans
01.22% 02 04 5% Actual Limit
134 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 135
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ pay in a wider setting continued
External context
Comparator groups for pay and relative TSR Performance graph
The Committee used two pay comparator groups when The following graph sets out the performance of the company
considering executive pay for 2021. The Global pharmaceutical relative to the FTSE 100 index and to the pharmaceutical
comparator group is also used to measure relative TSR performance comparator group for the ten-year period to 31
performance. The primary groups used for each Executive December 2021. These indices were selected for comparison
Director were as follows: purposes as they reflect both the primary index of which GSK is
a constituent and the industry in which it operates.
European cross-industry comparator group
Emma Walmsley Roche Holding AG Linde Deutsche Telekom 400
Iain Mackay Novartis Sanofi Kering
LVMH AstraZeneca Heineken
350
Anheuser-Busch Inbev Diageo BASF
Unilever Siemens Vinci
SAP Christian Dior Adidas 300
L’Oreal Inditex Bayer
Novo Nordisk A/S BAT Safran
250
Airbus Volkswagen Reckitt Benckiser
Global pharmaceutical comparator group 200
Dr Hal Barron France US
Sanofi AbbVie(1) 150
Switzerland Amgen(1)
Novartis Bristol-Myers Squibb 100
Roche Holdings Eli Lilly
Johnson & Johnson
UK Merck & Co 50
AstraZeneca Pfizer 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.14 31.12.15 31.12.16 31.12.17 31.12.18 31.12.19 31.12.20 31.12.21
GSK Total Return GSK Pharma Peers FTSE 100
Total Return Index* Total Return Index
(1) A bbVie and Amgen are included for remuneration benchmarking, but are not
included in the relative TSR comparator group. * This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
2021 CEO total remuneration positioning
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee has
also referenced pay for the Global pharmaceutical group.
European Global
cross-industry pharmaceutical
group group
(£m) 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
Lower quartile Median to upper Emma Walmsley’s
to median quartile current position
Remuneration includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on the
Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology.Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2022
Fixed Pay Pay for performance
Salary Annual bonus
The Committee considered the average increases being The Annual bonus plan has been redesigned to better align with
awarded to employees below the level of Executive Directors our IU ambitions and Trust priority. For full details of the proposed
in the UK and US. After due consideration of performance, it changes to the Annual bonus plan, please refer to ‘2022 at a
was agreed that it was appropriate to award increases in line glance’ on page 124 and the proposed 2022 Remuneration
with the wider workforce to the CEO, CFO and CSO to ensure Policy report on pages 145 and 146.
the competitiveness of their remuneration could be maintained.
Bonus opportunity % of salary
Base salary 2022 % change Exceptional
Target Maximum performance(1)
Wider workforce(1) –
Emma Walmsley
Emma Walmsley £1,259,855
3.0 Iain Mackay 100 200 300
Iain Mackay £915,335
Dr Hal Barron
Dr Hal Barron(2) $2,026,549
(1) Exceptional performance: up to an additional 100% of salary fully paid in shares
(1) Based on the average increase budget for employees below the level of GLT in the deferred for three years.
UK and US.
Weighting of performance measures %
(2) Dr Barron will transition to a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 August 2022.
Adjusted Strategic and
Benefits Total sales operating operational ESG: Inclusion
No significant changes to the provision of benefits are proposed growth profit growth measures & Diversity
Emma Walmsley
for 2022. For full details of the policy in relation to benefits,
please refer to the proposed new 2022 Remuneration Policy Iain Mackay 30 30 30 10
report, page 144. Dr Hal Barron
Pension There will be a reduced payout for below target performance
The table below provides an overview of the pension compared to the current policy. The proposed increase in
arrangements for each ongoing Executive Director in 2022. payout opportunity for above target performance is to
incentivise exceptional outperformance, in excess of our IU
The Committee has previously committed to reduce existing
ambitions and Trust priority goals.
UK Executive Directors’ pensions to align with the wider UK
workforce by 1 January 2023. The increasing importance of our Trust business priority and
ESG commitments has led us to propose an Inclusion &
Any new UK-based or US-based Executive Director’s pension
Diversity human capital management measure in the Annual
will be aligned to the appropriate wider workforce on
bonus, based upon our progress towards our aspirational
appointment.
targets for gender and ethnically diverse representation in senior
2022 Pension contribution roles (see page 37).
Emma Walmsley 20% of base salary and matching contributions of 5% on
Iain Mackay the first £13,333 of salary in accordance with the terms Inevitably, targets linked directly to our financial and strategic
of the plan open to all employees, and 20% of base plan are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not
salary in lieu of pension on salary in excess of £13,333 consider it appropriate to disclose Annual bonus targets during
Dr Hal Barron(1) 38% of base salary, less a contribution to the 401(k) and the year, as it may result in competitive harm. However, details of
ESSP equivalent to 5% of total base salary and bonus the performance targets will, as usual, be disclosed on a
(net of the bonus deferred under the DABP). In addition,
retrospective basis in the 2022 Annual Report.
in line with the wider US workforce, from 1 January
2021, a combined contribution rate under the 401(k)
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) 2022 awards
and ESSP plans of 11% (7% core contribution plus a
match of up to 4%) of total base salary and bonus (net The table below provides details of the mandatory deferral into
of the bonus deferred under the DABP). the DABP of 50% of 2021 Annual bonus payments and the
associated awards granted. The shares awarded have no
(1) Dr Barron will transition to a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 August 2022.
performance conditions, but must be held for three years,
regardless of continued employment.
Total bonus deferred DABP awards
into shares % Shares ADS
Emma Walmsley 72,399
Iain Mackay 50 50,056
Dr Hal Barron 40,617
136 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 137
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2022 continued
Performance Share Plan (PSP) 2022 awards Performance
The table below provides details of awards granted under Relative TSR will continue to be measured against GSK’s
the PSP. Global pharmaceutical comparator group (see page 135).
The Total Sales growth and Adjusted Operating Profit growth
% of salary Shares
Emma Walmsley 575 461,059 measures recognise the importance of the commercial
Iain Mackay 400 233,028 ambitions in our IU and the Committee has set targets that align
with those ambitions.
Dr Barron did not receive a PSP award given his transition to a
Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2022. Trust – business priority
We are proposing a new ESG Environment measure based
LTI performance measures upon our Trust priority and goal of having a Nature Net Positive
We are proposing changes to the measures and weighting for and Climate Net Zero impact by 2030 (see page 122). The
the 2022 LTI awards to better align to our IU ambitions and our targets for the ESG Environment measure for the 2022 grant
Trust priority. For further details please refer to the 2022 are based upon a series of Nature goals relating to Water,
Remuneration Policy report on page 146. The new proposed Waste & Materials reduction, Biodiversity impact and Climate
LTI measures and weighting are: goals that incorporate Scope 1 & 2 emission reduction targets,
carbon offsetting and our industrialisation of green Ventolin.
LTI measure Measure Weighting
Innovation Pipeline progress 20%
Shareholdings versus Share Ownership Requirement
Performance Relative TSR 30%
(SOR) (audited)
Total Sales Growth 20%
Adjusted Operating Profit Growth 20% To align the interests of Executive Directors with those
Trust ESG: Environment(1) 10% of shareholders, they are required to build and maintain
significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive
(1) A composite scorecard incorporating Scope 1 & 2 Targets for which assessment of
performance against this metric will be determined in line with the World Resources Directors are required to continue to satisfy these Share
Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development GHG Protocol
Ownership Requirements (SOR) by holding 100% of their SOR
methodology for accounting and reporting of our emissions footprint.
for the first 12 months after leaving GSK and not less than 50%
Innovation
of their SOR for months 13-24 after leaving GSK.
The Pipeline progress measure seeks to reward acceleration
and strengthening of the pipeline. This is based on two equally Value of holdings as % of salary
SOR
weighted elements of our key assets or indications measured % of salary 27 February 2022 31 December 2021
over a three-year performance period. Emma Walmsley 650 1,292 985
Points are allocated for successful assets in each sub-measure Iain Mackay 300 261 64
based upon their forecast commercial value (peak year sales) at Dr Hal Barron 300 799 566
the end of the performance period.
Shares subject to performance conditions are excluded from
The sub-measures for the 2022 award will vest as follows:
each Executive Director’s SOR calculation until the end of the
Pivotal Trial Starts performance period. These vested shares are then included as
Focuses mainly on phase III registrational trial starts, but may part of the Director’s SOR to the extent that the performance
also include phase II starts (eg in oncology). conditions are met. The value of the holdings has been
calculated on a post-tax basis.
Performance level Points Payout
Below Threshold <11 Nil For Dr Hal Barron, ADS contributing to his SOR include his
Threshold 11 25% investments under the GSK 401(k) plan and the ESSP.
13 50% Emma Walmsley and Dr Barron currently exceed their SOR.
15 75% Iain Mackay, who joined the Board in early 2019, is currently
Maximum 17 100% working towards satisfying his SOR.
The company has processes in place to ensure that each
Major Regulatory Approvals
Executive Director’s SOR will continue to be satisfied after
Performance level Points Payout
leaving GSK, including the monitoring of nominee accounts.
Below Threshold <16 Nil
Each Executive Director also agrees to the terms of the SOR
Threshold 16 25%
included within their service contract.
18 50%
20 75%
Maximum 22 100%
The Pipeline progress measure is commercially sensitive at the
time of grant. At the end of the performance period we will
provide full disclosure of what has been achieved.Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration governance
Committee role and membership This is subject to election and subsequent annual re-election.
These details are available on page 93 and are incorporated Subject to mutual agreement, they are each expected to serve a
by reference to this Report. The Chair, CEO, Chief People further three years, and up to nine years from appointment in line
Officer, Head of Reward, Group Financial Controller and the with the provisions of the 2018 Code, subject to annual
Company Secretary assisted the Committee during the year. re-election.
Adviser to the Committee Committee focus during 2021
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) has been the independent
Remuneration policy
adviser to the Committee since it was appointed in 2018 for The Committee sets the broad structure for the Remuneration policy
an initial period of three years after a full commercial tender and determines the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the
exercise was concluded by the company. Prior to the expiry of Chair and other corporate officers.
this initial period, the Committee reviewed the quality of the Items discussed:
services PwC provided. As a result, it was agreed to extend – Proposed 2022 Remuneration policy
PwC’s term further to the end of 2022. This would allow for – Remuneration impact of major Group restructuring and CH
a full market review to be undertaken over the summer of 2022, demerger
followed by a full commercial tender if appropriate, prior to – Engagement with shareholders and consideration of feedback
presenting recommendations to the Committee for adviser Salary review
support from January 2023. PwC is a member of the The Committee periodically reviews and considers the remuneration
Remuneration Consultants’ Group and, as such, voluntarily environment for Executive Directors and GLT, approving annual
operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive adjustments as necessary having regard to performance and the
remuneration consulting in the UK. The code of conduct can remuneration of the wider workforce.
be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com. Items discussed:
– Review of remuneration environment and wider employee trends
During the year, in addition to providing consultancy services to
– Executive Director and GLT benchmarking, competitiveness and
the Committee, PwC provided other consulting and assurance
GSK comparator groups
services to the company. In line with the protocols agreed and set – GLT and Company Secretary salary review and recommendations
by the Committee Chair under which PwC provided their advice, for 2021
the Committee is satisfied that such advice has been objective – Executive Director salary review and recommendations for 2022
and independent. PwC has provided independent commentary
Annual bonus
on matters under consideration by the Committee and updates
The Committee is responsible for setting specific performance
on market practice and legislative requirements. It also reviewed
measures for the Annual bonus and for assessments of performance.
the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were
Items discussed:
appropriate safeguards against such conflicts. PwC’s fees for
CEO, Executive Directors and GLT 2020 bonus recommendations
advice during the year, which were charged on both a fixed and a
and 2021 CEO and Executive Directors’ bonus objectives
time and materials basis, were £168,200. Willis Towers Watson
provided additional market data to the Committee. LTI plans
The Committee is responsible for approving LTI plan rule changes,
Shareholder votes on remuneration matters
grants, assessments of performance, and the vesting of LTI awards for
Votes the Executive Directors, GLT and below (including interim awards).
Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million) Items discussed:
Remuneration report – LTI performance outcomes and vesting of LTI awards for GLT and
2021 AGM 3.5 93.1 6.9 15.4 below
Remuneration policy – Confirmation of LTI grants for GLT and below
2020 AGM 2.7 88.2 11.8 620.1
Governance and other areas of focus
The Committee adheres to a robust remuneration governance
Service contracts and letters of appointment
framework, ensuring alignment between internal actions and external
The table below sets out the dates of the Executive Directors’ reporting/compliance requirements.
service contracts, which are available for review at the company’s
Items discussed:
registered office and on gsk.com. Each Executive Director’s
– Remuneration considerations and committee programme for 2021
service contract contains a 12-month notice period. – Review of Terms of Reference
Date of contract Effective date Expiry date – Committee evaluation annual review
Emma Walmsley 29.03.17 01.04.17 30.06.34 – 2020 Remuneration report
Iain Mackay 18.09.18 14.01.19 n/a – Confirmation of 2021 Group Budget for remuneration purposes
– AGM and Remuneration report feedback, the external
Dr Hal Barron(1) 16.12.17 01.01.18 31.12.24
remuneration environment and performance target disclosure for
(1) Dr Barron will transition to a Non-Executive Director (with a letter of appointment) with incentive plans
effect from 1 August 2022.
– 2021 Remuneration report disclosures, including CEO pay ratio
The Non-Executive Directors (NED) have letters of appointment, – Annual governance meeting key Committee messages
which are available to view at the company’s registered office. – Committee Chair consultation with employee representatives
Each NED is expected to serve on the Board until the end of the on setting pay and wider workforce pay practices
AGM following the third anniversary of their appointment.
138 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 139
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Chair and other Non-Executive Directors 2021 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
The company aims to provide the Chair and other Non- The Non-Executive Directors’ fees that applied during 2021 are
Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with those set out in the table below:
paid by other companies of equivalent size and complexity, Per annum
subject to the limits contained in its Articles of Association. Standard annual fee £95,000
Supplemental fees
Chair’s fees Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
The Chair is paid a fee of £700,000 per annum, of which he Senior Independent Director £50,000
takes 25% in GSK shares. The Chair’s fees were reviewed on Scientific & Medical Experts £30,000
his appointment and have been reviewed annually since. It was Chairs of the Remuneration, Corporate £40,000
Responsibility and Science Committees
concluded they remained appropriate.
Workforce Engagement Director
Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental £7,500 per meeting
travel to meetings
Implementation of Non-Executive Directors’ policy in 2022
Non-Executive Directors’ standard and supplemental fees were last increased with effect from 1 January 2020.
Following a review, and subject to shareholder approval, it was agreed to authorise the payment of fees from 1 January 2022 to
Science Committee members of up to £200,000 per annum. These would be paid in respect of additional responsibilities
undertaken on behalf of GSK and to support R&D and would reflect the time commitment of such responsibilities.
We do not expect to make any other increases to the fees payable to Non-Executive Directors during the new policy period.
2021 Total fees (audited)
The audited table below sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and
shares or ADS. Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan are set out on page 141. Non-Executive
Directors’ fees that are paid in a currency other than Sterling are converted using an average exchange rate that is reviewed from
time to time. The average exchange rates were updated in 2021. Non-Executive Directors’ fees were converted to US Dollars using
an exchange rate of $1.3481 in 2021. Benefits comprise the grossed up cash value of travel and subsistence costs incurred in the
normal course of business, in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings. For overseas-based Directors, this
includes travel to meetings in the UK.
2021 2020
Non-Executive Directors’
Fixed fees Fixed fees
emoluments (000) (audited)
Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay
Sir Jonathan Symonds £525 £175 £3 £703 £525 £175 £2 £702
Vindi Banga £109 £36 £1 £146 £114 £38 £2 £154
Charles Bancroft – $210 $5 $215 – $82 – $82
Dr Anne Beal $62 $21 – $83 – – – –
Dame Vivienne Cox £101 £34 £1 £136 £107 £36 £2 £145
Lynn Elsenhans $134 $45 $5 $184 $93 $100 $20 $213
Dr Laurie Glimcher – $165 $13 $178 – $180 $34 $214
Dr Jesse Goodman $164 $55 $23 $242 $174 $58 $23 $255
Urs Rohner £101 £34 £11 £146 £107 £36 £4 £147
Judy Lewent(1) $48 $16 $9 $73 $183 $61 $12 $256
(1) R etired from the Board on 5 May 2021.Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Executive Directors of the company in office during 2021 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are
shown in the table below:
As at 31 December 2021
Unvested share plan interests
Beneficial Subject to
Total directors’ interests as at interests Not subject to performance performance
27 February 2022(1) 31 December 2021(1) Shares/ADS(2) Shares/ADS(3,7) Options(4,7) Shares/ADS(5)
Shares
Emma Walmsley 1,521,133 1,195,364 364,520 654,043 176,801 1,495,049
Iain Mackay 275,681 71,972 – – 71,972 779,782
ADS
Dr Hal Barron 519,723 424,186 224,353 199,833 – 740,680
1) Total directors’ interests include beneficial interests and unvested share plan interests not subject to performance. The balance as at 27 February 2022
includes shares/ADS awarded in 2019 under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) and the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) which vested in February 2022
less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts. Executive Directors’ shareholdings versus their SOR are outlined on page 137.
2) B eneficial interests include shares/ADS held by the Executive Directors and their PCAs. For Emma Walmsley, this includes 2,385 shares purchased
through the GlaxoSmithKline Share Reward Plan. Iain Mackay does not currently participate in the Share Reward Plan. As a US employee, Dr Hal Barron is
not eligible to participate in the Share Reward Plan which is only open to UK employees. Dr Barron’s beneficial interests include ADS and notional ADS held
by way of his investments in the GSK 401(k) plan and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP). Further details on Dr Barron’s membership of the
plans can be found on page 127.
3) U nvested shares/ADS not subject to performance represent PSP shares/ADS which have vested but are subject to an additional two-year holding
period for Emma Walmsley and Dr Barron. Unvested ADS not subject to performance for Dr Barron also represent bonus deferrals (as described in
note 7 below).
4) Unvested options not subject to performance represent bonus deferrals under the DABP which are awarded as nil-cost options (as described in
note 7 below).
5) Unvested shares/ADS subject to performance represent unvested PSP awards.
6) Vested but unexercised options: None of the Directors hold vested but unexercised options.
7) D ABP: The table below shows bonus deferrals and subsequent reinvestment of dividends under the DABP. The amounts represent the gross shares/ADS
balances prior to the sale of any shares/ADS to satisfy tax liabilities on vesting.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (Bonus deferrals) 27 February 2022 31 December 2021 1 January 2021
Shares
Emma Walmsley 178,962 176,801 189,554
Iain Mackay 122,866 71,972 36,655
ADS
Dr Hal Barron 100,301 101,801 72,192
As UK employees, bonus deferrals under the DABP are granted as nil-cost options to Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay and the following table sets out
details of nil-cost options exercised.
Number of shares Date of Market price Gain on exercise
DABP Date of grant under option exercise Grant price at exercise (000)
Emma Walmsley
Deferral award 01.03.18 68,716 01.03.21 £0.00 £12.11 £832
In respect of nil-cost options awarded in 2018 under the DABP, the bonus which is deferred by the Executive Director was recorded as remuneration (under
Annual bonus) in the Total remuneration table in respect of 2017. Number of shares under option includes the initial award amount together with reinvested
dividends accrued to the date of exercise.
140 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 141
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Non-Executive Directors’ interests in shares
The interests of the Non-Executive Directors of the company in office during 2021 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are
shown in the table below:
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors
Total directors’ interests as at(1) Number of shares/ADS
Beneficial Dividends Elected &
31 December interests at 31 reinvested after 31 December allocated during
27 February 2022 2021 December 2021(2) year end 2021 the year(3) 1 January 2021
Shares
Sir Jonathan Symonds 64,467 63,474 35,757 993 27,717 15,865 11,851
Vindi Banga 106,013 104,473 71,800 1,541 32,673 4,780 27,893
Dame Vivienne Cox 10,997 10,548 – 449 10,548 3,345 7,203
Urs Rohner 17,168 16,427 – 741 16,427 3,673 12,754
ADS
Charles Bancroft 7,665 7,466 – 199 7,466 6,099 1,367
Dr Anne Beal 509 504 • 5 504 504 –
Dr Hal Dietz – – – – – – –
Lynn Elsenhans 47,168 44,984 1,000 2,184 43,984 3,849 40,135
Dr Laurie Glimcher 23,664 22,653 – 1,011 22,653 6,039 16,614
Dr Jesse Goodman 10,695 10,223 – 472 10,223 2,136 8,086
Judy Lewent(4) – – – – – 1,928 18,892
1) T otal directors’ interests include beneficial interests and any shares/ADS received as all or part of their fees under the Non-Executive Directors’
share allocation plan. Dividends received on shares/ADS under the plan during the year and in January 2022 were converted into shares/ADS as at
13 January 2022.
2) Beneficial interests includes shares/ADS held by the Non-Executive Directors and their PCAs.
3) S hares/ADS allocated during the year under the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan cover five quarters of allocations for the period from
October 2020 to December 2021 due to a change in the timing of allocations during 2021. Shares/ADS allocated also includes dividends reinvested during
the year.
4) J udy Lewent retired from the Board on 5 May 2021, at which time her holding of 20,820 ADS under the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan
was released to her under the terms of the plan. The holding was subject to UK income tax.
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (the group).
For this purpose, the group is defined as the Executive and Non-Executive Directors, other members of the GLT and the Company
Secretary. For the financial year 2021, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during
which they served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2021 £
Total compensation paid 29,205,417
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 39,483
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 1,421,723
During 2021, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various LTI plans, as set out in the table
below. To align the interests of Senior Management with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and GLT members are required
to build and maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. GLT members are required to hold shares to an equivalent
multiple of two times their base salary, and must continue to satisfy these share ownership requirements for a minimum of 12
months after leaving GSK.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2021 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Performance Share Plan 2,305,483 471,211 351,369 83,884
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) 274,510 – 18,759 –
Share Value Plan(2) 16,380 – – –
1) N otional shares and ADS.
2) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors and Senior Management continued
At 27 February 2022, the group and their PCAs had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Interests awarded
under the various LTI plans are described in Note 44 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on page 245.
Interests at 27 February 2022 Shares ADS
Owned 2,482,185 526,342
Unexercised options 3,440 –
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 588,815 121,198
Performance Share Plan 7,245,586 959,612
Deferred Investment Awards(1,2) 348,947 8,563
Share Value Plan(2) 32,760 11,480
(1) N otional shares.
(2) E xecutive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.
Fees in respect of Executive Directors’ external appointments
CEO
Emma Walmsley is an independent non-executive director of Microsoft Corporation. During 2021, she received $325,000, of
which $125,000 was delivered as cash and $200,000 as stock options under the Microsoft Corporation’s Deferred Compensation
Plan for its non-employee directors.
CSO
Dr Hal Barron was a non-executive director of GRAIL Inc (a private company) until 24 August 2021. During 2021, he earned
$30,000 in fees.
Payments to past Directors (audited)
Simon Dingemans left the Board on 8 May 2019 as a voluntary leaver. The vesting of the DABP awards is governed by the
Remuneration policy prevailing at the time Mr Dingemans left the Board. The table below reflects the value of the deferred bonus and
accrued dividends to the point of release.
Number of
Date of vesting shares vested
2019 DABP 14 February 2022 51,712
Payments for loss of office (audited)
No loss of office payments were made in 2021 or 2020.
How our Remuneration policy continues to reflect Provision 40 of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code)
Clarity and Simplicity
The remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors are set out in a clear and simple way in the Remuneration policy. Prior to
finalising the Remuneration policy, the Committee consulted extensively with our shareholders to ensure transparency and clarity regarding
its implementation. The fixed remuneration elements (salary, benefits and pension) are closely aligned with wider workforce arrangements
and our pay for performance plans (annual bonus and long-term incentive) reward delivery of financial, strategic and ESG objectives in the
short and long-term.
Risk
In line with the Code, we operate both deferral and post-vesting holding periods, in addition to malus and clawback provisions. The
Committee retains discretion to adjust award outcomes (to zero if appropriate) if it considers the payout determined does not appropriately
reflect the overall position and performance of the company.
Predictability and proportionality
Our Remuneration policy defines maximum limits on the total annual bonus and long-term incentive opportunities, and payouts under these
elements are linked to fulfilment of performance conditions that support the company’s publicly stated ambitions. Through its
implementation, maximum reward under our short and long-term plans are only achievable for material outperformance against our stated
ambitions.
Alignment to culture
GSK’s purpose, values and strategy are directly reflected in the performance conditions set under the annual bonus and long-term
incentive. In particular, we are introducing an ESG measure in both our short and long-term plans given our external ambitions for our Trust
priority, and our Nature Net Positive and Climate Net Zero ambition by 2030. Our Share Ownership Requirements strengthen the focus on
our strategic aims, and ensure alignment with the interests and experiences of shareholders, both during and after employment.
The Remuneration policy has operated as intended in terms of company performance and quantum during 2021.
142 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 143
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2022 Remuneration policy summary
Remuneration policy review
Our current Remuneration policy (policy) was approved by our – Create long-term shareholder value, and
shareholders at our Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2020
– Drive the success of the company for the benefit of
when it received a 88.18% vote in favour. Shareholders are being
shareholders, patients, our people and other key stakeholders
asked to approve a new policy at our Annual General Meeting on
4 May 2022 which is intended to apply for the next three years. In addition, changes to the policy have been made to ensure its
implementation will support the delivery of business strategy
During 2021, the Committee considered the policy to define the
whilst delivering a clear, understandable and appropriately
biopharma business’ new approach to remuneration. The
competitive package to attract, retain and motivate executive
decision-making process that the Committee followed for its
talent.
determination, review and implementation of the proposed new
policy is set out in the Committee Chair’s statement on pages The Committee developed the new policy for Executive and
120 to 124. Non-Executive Directors in the context of its oversight of wider
workforce pay, however, it did not consult directly with employees
The Committee’s review of the policy sought to ensure that it
on the new policy. It consulted with our largest shareholders in
continues to:
respect of the proposed changes and took shareholders’
– Align with the company’s business priorities, culture, wider feedback into account when finalising the new policy.
workforce pay policies and emerging best practice
The table below provides an overview of the main changes that
– Support the bold performance ambitions announced to are proposed in respect of the new policy. The full policy that
investors in June 2021 and company’s key ESG commitments shareholders are asked to approve is set out on pages 144 to 152.
Remuneration element Proposed changes to policy Rationale for the change
Pension – The description of the policy has been updated to – This reflects the commitment given in the
reflect that the pension arrangements of any current UK 2020 Remuneration Report that the pension
and US Executive Directors will be aligned to the new arrangements of US Executive Directors
Executive Directors’ arrangements from 1 January 2023 would also be aligned to those of the new
– The US contribution rates have been updated Executive Directors from January 2023
– The US references have been updated to
reflect the latest contribution rates for the
US wider workforce which came into effect
in January 2021
Annual bonus – The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors – The additional opportunity of 100% is being
will be 300% of salary. For target performance, the introduced in the annual bonus to
bonus payout will be 100% of salary appropriately focus and reward executives
– For bonus up to an equivalent of 200% of salary, to deliver and exceed our public ambitions
Executive Directors are required to defer 50% of any and to secure strong performance for all our
bonus earned into shares, or ADS as appropriate, for stakeholders
three years. Any portion of the bonus earned in excess – The additional opportunity would be
of 200% of salary must be deferred 100% on the same deferred in full to ensure alignment with
basis shareholders’ interests
Non-Executive – Authority is sought for a Non-Executive Director who – To appropriately remunerate Non-Executive
Directors’ fees is a member of the Science Committee to be Directors for their work
remunerated up to £200,000 per annum for
undertaking additional responsibilities on behalf of GSK
and to support R&D
– The current requirement for Non-Executive Directors – If the company chooses to replace the
and the Chair to invest 25% of their net basic fees in current investment requirement, the
shares or ADS of the company is retained, but the minimum ownership requirement would
company may choose to replace this for the Chair or continue to maintain a meaningful and
one or more Non-Executive Directors with a minimum prudent level of investment to align Non-
share or ADS ownership requirement of at least one Executive Directors’ interests with
times their gross annual standard fee until their shareholders
retirement from the Board. Shares or ADS previously
– The ability to replace the current investment
acquired through investment of fees would continue to
requirement would facilitate greater flexibility
be held under those arrangements and would be
in operation of these arrangements
delivered or released following retirement from the
Board. Such shares or ADS would count towards any
expected minimum ownership requirement2022 Remuneration policy report
Subject to shareholder approval on 4 May 2022 at GSK’s Annual General Meeting, the Remuneration policy for each remuneration
element will be as outlined in the table below.
Future Policy Table
Salary To provide a core reward for the role. Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre
No change individuals needed to deliver the Group’s strategic priorities.
Operation Opportunity
Individual’s role, experience, performance and independently There is no formal maximum limit and, ordinarily, salary increases
sourced data for relevant comparator groups considered when will be broadly in line with the average increases for the wider
determining salary levels. GSK workforce.
Salary increases typically take effect in the first quarter of However, increases may be higher to reflect a change in the
each year. scope of the individual’s role, responsibilities or experience.
Salary adjustments may also reflect wider market conditions in
Salaries are normally paid in the currency of the Executive
the geography in which the individual operates.
Director’s home country.
Details of current salary levels are set out in the Annual report
on remuneration.
Performance measures
The overall performance of the individual is a key consideration
when determining salary increases.
Benefits Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre individuals to execute the business strategy.
No change
Operation Where an Executive Director is based outside the UK, but is
Executive Directors are eligible to receive benefits in line with required to travel to the UK to fulfil the responsibilities of their
the policy for other employees which may vary by location. role and to attend Board Meetings, they may be subject to tax
These include, but are not limited to, car allowances, healthcare, on their business travel expenses to and from the UK and on the
life assurance/death in service (where not provided as part of provision of any accommodation in the UK. Although in reality it
the individual’s pension arrangements), personal financial advice represents a business expense, the tax treatment requires that
and contractual post-retirement benefits. In line with the policy their travel and accommodation expenses are then included as
for other employees, Executive Directors may be eligible to benefits. Because of the business context, the tax liabilities will
receive overseas relocation allowances and international be covered by the company on a grossed-up basis.
transfer-related benefits when required. Executive Directors Benefit provision is tailored to reflect market practice in the
in the UK are also eligible to participate in all-employee share geography in which the Executive Director is based and
schemes (e.g. Share Save and Share Reward Plan), under different policies may apply if current or future Executive
which they are subject to the same terms as all other Directors are based in a different country.
employees.
Opportunity
In order to recognise the high business travel requirements of
There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs can fluctuate
the role, Executive Directors are also entitled to car travel and
depending on changes in provider cost and individual
exceptionally may be accompanied by their spouse/partner on
circumstances.
business trips. Other benefits include expenses incurred in the
ordinary course of business, which are deemed to be taxable Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the Annual
benefits on the individual. report on remuneration.
Performance measure
None
144 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 145
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2022 Remuneration policy report continued
Future policy table continued
Pension Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement income.
Change
Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement Any new Executive Directors in the UK will receive from date
income. of appointment:
– 7% of base salary contribution to defined contribution plan
Operation
and further 3% in matched contributions subject to any
Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the relevant cap and in line with implementation principles for
plans operated in the country in which the individual is likely to other members of the plan; and
retire. Where the individual chooses not to become a member – 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
of the pension plan, cash in lieu of the relevant pension contribution for the portion above the relevant cap;
contribution is paid instead. Executive Directors in the UK are or
entitled either to join the defined contribution pension plan or – 7% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension
to receive a cash payment in lieu of pension contribution. contribution.
Where an individual is a member of a GSK legacy defined
US(1):
benefit plan, a defined contribution plan or an alternative – Supplemental Cash Balance pension plan, providing annual
pension plan arrangement and is subsequently appointed contribution of 38% of base salary, less 5% of total base salary
to the Board, he or she may remain a member of that plan. and bonus (net of the bonus deferred under the DABP)(3).
– GSK 401(k) plan(1) and the ESSP(1) with core contributions of
Opportunity
7% of salary and bonus(2) and matched contributions of 4% of
The policy for all current Executive Directors is: salary and bonus(2).
UK: From 1 January 2023, any current US Executive Directors who
– 20% of base salary contribution to defined contribution plan are still in role will have their pension arrangements aligned to
and further 5% in matched contributions subject to any new Executive Directors’ arrangements as follows.
relevant cap and in line with implementation principles for Any new Executive Directors in the US will receive from date of
other members of the plan; and appointment:
– 20% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension – GSK 401(k) plan(1) and the ESSP(1) with core contributions of
contribution for the portion above the relevant cap; 7% of salary and bonus(2) and matched contributions of 4% of
or salary and bonus(2).
– 20% of base salary as a cash payment in lieu of pension Global:
contribution. – Eligible for appropriate equivalent arrangement not in excess
From 1 January 2023, any current UK Directors who are still in of the US/UK arrangements.
role will have their pension arrangements aligned to new
Performance measures
Executive Directors’ arrangements as follows.
None.
(1) I n the event of any change to the plans operated in the US, a similar treatment would be
provided under any successor arrangements introduced within the market
(2) L ess bonus deferred under the DABP
(3) The 5% offset is equal to the contribution to the 401(k) and ESSP which was moved
from the pension plans, in line with the wider US workforce, from 1 January 2021
Annual bonus To incentivise and recognise execution of the business strategy on an annual basis. Rewards the
Change achievement of stretching annual financial, strategic and operational measures.
Operation The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting outcome (either
Financial, operational and business targets are set at the start of up or down) to ensure that the overall outcome reflects underlying
the year by the Committee and bonus levels are determined by business performance over the vesting period. Clawback and/or
the Committee based on performance against those targets. malus provisions apply as described on page 147.
Strategic and operational measures are set at the start of the Opportunity
year by the Committee and performance against those
The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is
measures is assessed by the Committee.
300% of salary. Below 99% of target performance, the bonus
Executive Directors are required to defer part of any bonus earned payout on the financial measures will be nil. For target
into shares, or ADS as appropriate, for three years. 50% of the performance, the bonus payout will be 100% of salary.
equivalent of the first 200% of salary is deferred, and any portion
in excess of 200% is deferred in full. Deferred bonus shares are
eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of vesting.2022 Remuneration policy report continued
Future policy table continued
Performance measures
Based on a combination of financial targets and individual/ For this reason the majority of the annual bonus opportunity is
strategic and ESG performance objectives, with the majority based on a formal review of performance against stretching
of the bonus assessed against the financial measures. The financial targets, with the remainder of the bonus subject to
weighting between different measures will be determined each assessment of individual performance against the key strategic
year according to business priorities. Further details, including and operational measures which are aligned to the company’s
the measures to be used in the financial year, are provided in the key objectives for that financial year and/or assessment of
Annual report on remuneration. performance against ESG targets.
Selection of annual bonus measures The annual bonus financial targets are set by reference to
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of internal budget and external consensus targets.
GSK’s annual financial, strategic and operational measures.
Performance To incentivise and recognise delivery of the longer term business priorities, financial growth and
Share Plan (PSP) increases in shareholder value compared to other pharmaceutical companies. In addition, to
provide alignment with shareholder interests, a retention element, to encourage long-term
No change
shareholding and discourage excessive risk taking.
Operation Opportunity
Conditional awards are made annually with vesting dependent The normal maximum award limits that may be granted under
on the achievement of performance conditions over three years the PSP to an individual in any one year are set out in the table
and are subject to an additional two-year holding period. PSP below:
targets are set by reference to internal budget and external % of salary
consensus targets. CEO 600
Awards are eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of CFO 400
vesting and release. Other Executive Directors 500
The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting outcome
Performance measures
(either up or down) to ensure that the overall outcome reflects
Based on a combination of financial, share price related and
underlying business performance over the vesting period.
strategic and ESG performance conditions which are aligned to
Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as described on the company’s strategic plan. For all measures, 25% of awards
page 147. will vest at threshold performance. Further details, including
the performance targets attached to the PSP in respect of each
year, and the weightings of the targets for the 2022 PSP awards
are provided in the Annual report on remuneration.
Selection of long-term incentive measures Any major adjustment in the calculation of performance
The Committee selects performance measures which focus measures will be disclosed to shareholders on vesting.
Executive Directors’ long-term remuneration on the delivery of The Audit & Risk Committee chair and other members, who are
GSK’s key strategic priorities over the longer term. In addition to also members of the Remuneration Committee, provide input on
setting robust targets, the Committee has implemented a number the Audit & Risk Committee’s review of the Group’s
of safeguards to ensure the targets are met in a sustainable way performance and oversight of any risk factors relevant to
and performance reflects genuine achievement against targets remuneration decisions.
and therefore represents the delivery of value for shareholders.
Details of the rationale behind the performance measures
For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition or selected and how they are calculated are set out in the Annual
divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the event. report on remuneration.
Share Ownership Requirements
No change
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of As a minimum, Executive Directors are required to maintain
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain 100% of their share ownership requirements to the end of
significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. The the first year following retirement from the company and 50%
requirements for each Executive Director are as follows: to the end of the second year.
%% salary
CEO 650
Other Executive Directors 300
146 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 147
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2022 Remuneration policy report continued
Future policy table continued
Clawback and malus No change
In the event of a ‘triggering event’ (i.e. significant misconduct by In respect of each financial year, the Remuneration Committee
way of violation of regulation, law, a significant GSK policy, such will disclose whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has
as the Code of Conduct, or a material misstatement of results, exercised clawback or malus. Disclosure will only be made
or serious reputational damage), the company will have the when the matter has been subject to public reports of
ability to claw back up to three years’ annual and deferred misconduct, where it has been fully resolved, where it is legally
bonuses as well as vested and unvested LTIs. In addition, in permissible to disclose and where it can be made without
respect of PSP awards made from 2020, if a participant is unduly prejudicing the company and therefore shareholders.
subject to an investigation, then the vesting of their awards
Additionally, where there has been continuity of responsibility
may be delayed until the outcome of that investigation.
between initiation of an adverse event and its emergence as a
A separate Recoupment Committee has been established to problem, the adverse event should be taken into account in
investigate relevant claims of misconduct. The Recoupment assessing annual bonus awards and LTI vesting levels in the
Committee exercises this authority for the wider employee base. year the problem is identified and for future periods. The
It comprises of senior executives with relevant oversight and Remuneration Committee (or Recoupment Committee) may
appropriate experience, including the Senior Vice President, make appropriate adjustments to individual annual bonuses as
Chief Compliance Officer, and the Senior Vice President and well as grant and vesting levels of LTI awards to reflect this.
Group General Counsel, Legal and Compliance.
Approach to recruitment remuneration No change
The Committee determines the remuneration package of new For any internal appointments, entitlements under existing
Executive Directors on a case-by-case basis depending on remuneration elements will continue, including pension
the role, the market from which they will operate and their entitlements and any outstanding awards. However, where
experience. Total remuneration levels will be set by reference not already the case, internal appointments will be required
to a relevant pay comparator group and, where appropriate, to move to Executive Director contractual terms, including
will allow for future development in the role. termination provisions.
It is expected that new Executive Directors will participate The Committee is mindful of the sensitivity relating to
in short and long-term incentive plans on the same basis as recruitment packages and, in particular, the ‘buying out’ of
existing directors. However, in exceptional circumstances, rights relating to previous employment. It will therefore seek
the Committee reserves the flexibility to set the incentive limit to minimise such arrangements. However, in certain
for a new Executive Director at up to an additional 50% of the circumstances, to enable the recruitment of exceptional talent,
existing limits. the Committee may determine that such arrangements are in
the best interests of the company and its shareholders. Such
The Committee retains this flexibility in recognition of the high
arrangements will, where possible, be on a like-for-like basis
levels of variable pay in GSK’s global pharmaceutical
with the forfeited remuneration terms. Arrangements will
competitors. However, the Committee will only use this flexibility
therefore vary depending on the plans and arrangements put
when it is considered to be in the best interests of the company
in place by the previous employer and may be in the form of
and its investors.
cash or shares and may or may not be subject to performance
Pension arrangements for any external recruit as an Executive conditions. Explanations will be provided where payments are
Director will be as set out in the Remuneration policy table on made as compensation for previous remuneration forfeited.
page 145.
The remuneration arrangements for any newly appointed
Other benefits will be provided in line with the policy for existing Executive Director will be disclosed as soon as practicable
Executive Directors. after the appointment.
Where required to meet business needs, relocation support
will be provided in line with company policy.2022 Remuneration policy report continued
Future policy table continued
Loss of office payment policy No change
The company does not have a policy of fixed term contracts. Notice period on termination by the employing company or the
Generally, contracts for new appointments will expire in line with Executive Director is 12 calendar months.
the applicable policy on retirement age, which since 2009 has
The ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period (and a
been 65.
non-solicitation restriction) on an Executive Director is
Contracts for existing Executive Directors will expire on the considered important by the company to have the ability to
dates shown on page 138. protect the Group’s intellectual property and staff. In light of this,
the Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to
provide for mitigation in the contracts.
Termination of employment
In the event that an Executive Director’s employment with the company terminates, the following policies and payments will apply.
Element of
Remuneration Loss of office payment policy
Termination Termination by notice: 12 months’ annual salary payable on termination by the company (pro-rated where part of the notice period is worked).
payment No termination payment is made in respect of any part of a notice period that extends beyond the contract expiry date.
A bonus element is not normally included in the termination payment. However, the terms of the contracts seek to balance commercial
imperatives and best practice.
Redundancy: As above, for termination by notice. In the UK, only statutory redundancy pay will apply. In the US, general severance policy does
not apply.
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: No termination payment.
LTI awards PSP awards are governed by the plan rules as approved by shareholders.
The following provisions will normally apply:
Termination by notice: Unvested awards will lapse.
Redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other reason: Generally, awards will continue to vest over the original
timescales subject to performance and pro-rated for time.
In the event of a change of control, PSP awards will vest, taking into account performance to date and normally taking into account the
proportion of the performance period that has elapsed. Alternatively, the awards may be exchanged for new awards.
Annual bonus Termination by notice by individual: If an individual serves notice and the termination date falls before 31 December, the bonus is forfeited.
Termination by notice by the company, redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury or disability: If the termination date falls during the
financial year, eligible for pro-rated on-target bonus (if employed on 31 December, bonus payable based on actual results).
Mandatorily DABP deferred bonus awards in respect of mandatorily deferred bonus amounts are governed by the plan rules as approved by shareholders.
deferred The following provisions will normally apply:
bonus under Termination for gross misconduct: Generally, unvested awards will lapse
the DABP
Any other reason: Generally, awards will vest in full on the original vesting date.
In the event of a change of control, awards will vest or may be exchanged for new awards.
Pensions Pension scheme contributions by the individual and the company, and any pension scheme benefit accruals, generally cease at the termination
date in accordance with pension scheme rules. Access to pension scheme benefits is governed by the pension scheme rules and country
legislation.
Benefits Generally, benefits will continue to apply until the termination date. The Committee may make payments in connection with an existing legal
obligation or in respect of any claim related to the cessation of employment. This may include fees for outplacement assistance, legal and/or
professional advice.
Termination by notice by the company and retirement (US executives): In line with the policy applicable to US senior executives, they may
become eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing medical and dental insurance after termination/retirement.
Termination by mutual agreement
In certain circumstances, it can be in the best interests of the company for the Board to manage proactively succession planning and the development of
the senior talent pipeline. In such circumstances, the Board may therefore agree that an Executive’s departure will be by mutual agreement. In order for this
to apply, the Committee will need to be satisfied that the Executive has demonstrated performance in line with expectations and where required they should
have contributed to an orderly succession. In the case of an Executive Director, they would then be treated as a ‘good leaver’ for the purposes of GSK’s
long-term incentive plans. If the termination date falls during the financial year, they would be eligible for a pro-rated on-target bonus and if they are
employed on 31 December, the bonus payable would be based on actual results.
148 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 149
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2022 Remuneration policy report continued
Loss of office payment policy continued
The Committee does not anticipate the exercise of discretion Where an Executive Director leaves the company, the
provided by the PSP and DABP plan rules in respect of Committee will carry out an assessment of the individual’s
termination payments in a manner which would benefit an performance and conduct over the time in role. If it is
Executive Director. However, there may be unforeseen determined that the individual’s performance or conduct was
circumstances where this is in the best interests of the company contrary to the legitimate expectations of the company, the
and its shareholders. Where it is necessary to exercise Committee reserves the right to apply appropriate mechanisms
discretion, explanations will be provided. such as clawback or reduction or lapsing of outstanding
incentive awards (malus), to ensure that any termination
payments are in the best interests of the company and its
shareholders (see page 147).
Differences between remuneration policy for Executive Directors
and other employees
When setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, While employees are not directly consulted in respect of the
the Committee considers the company’s strategic priorities, Remuneration policy, Urs Rohner, the Committee Chair,
prevailing market conditions for global talent, the competitive meets with senior HR representatives from across the business
environment (through comparison with the remuneration of to review employee feedback. Dame Vivienne Cox, an
executives at companies of similar size, complexity and Independent Non-Executive Director, engages with employees
international reach) and the positioning and relativities of pay on various topics, including remuneration, in her role as
and employment conditions across the broader GSK workforce. Workforce Engagement Director. Board members engage
with employees around during Board meetings where they are
In particular, the Committee considers the range of base
encouraged to share their views on the company, management
salary rises for the workforces of those parts of GSK where
and remuneration.
the Executive Directors are employed. This is considered to
be the most relevant comparison as these populations reflect In the wider organisation, we have aligned our performance
most closely the economic environments encountered by the and reward systems with our Innovation, Performance and Trust
individuals. priorities and a culture anchored in purpose and performance.
Our performance system evaluates employees on both ‘what’
The same principles apply to the Remuneration policy for
they need to do and ‘how’ they do it. Also, for our most senior
Executive Directors and other employees although
people we disincentivise unethical working practices using a
the remuneration offered to Executive Directors under this
clawback mechanism that allows us to recover performance-
policy has a stronger emphasis on performance-related pay
related pay.
than that offered to other employees of the Group.
– Salary and benefits (including pension) are tailored to the
local market.
– The annual bonus plan applies to the wider employee
population and is based on business performance.
– A combination of performance-related and restricted share
plans apply to the wider employee population.
– All-employee share plans are available to employees in the
UK, including the HM Revenue & Customs approved UK
Share Save and Share Reward Plans.2022 Remuneration policy report continued
Scenarios for future total remuneration
The charts opposite provide illustrations of the future total
remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of Emma Walmsley (£000)
the remuneration opportunity granted to each of them in 2022
under the proposed 2022 Remuneration policy. A range of 18,000
£16.29m
potential outcomes is provided for each Executive Director and
16,000 22%
the underlying assumptions are set out below.
14,000
£12.67m
All scenarios:
12,000 57% 45%
– 2022 base salary has been used.
10,000
– 2021 benefits figures have been used, ie. based on actual
amounts received in 2021. 8,000
£6.53m
– Pensions for Emma Walmsley and Iain Mackay are based 6,000 56%
upon their 2022 salaries. 30% 23%
4,000
– The amounts shown under value of PSP awards are based
upon the relevant multiples for 2022. They do not include 2,000 £1.65m 19%
100% 25% 13% 10%
amounts in respect of dividends reinvested and do not factor 0
in changes in share price over the vesting period (except as Fixed Expected Maximum Maximum with
share price
described below). increase
Fixed:
– Includes base salary, pension and benefits. Excludes Pay for Iain Mackay (£000)
performance, ie. no Annual bonus would be paid and PSP
awards would not vest.
10,000 £9.58m
19%
Expected: 8,000 £7.75m
47% 38%
– Includes Fixed pay.
6,000
– For the Annual bonus, it is assumed that target performance £4.09m
4,000
is achieved. 45% 36% 29%
– For PSP awards, amounts reflect 50% vesting levels. 2,000 £1.34m 22%
100% 33% 17% 14%
0
Maximum: Fixed Expected Maximum Maximum with
share price
– It is assumed that the Annual bonus would be payable at the increase
maximum level (i.e. 300%) and that the awards under the PSP
would vest in full.
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP 50% share price increase
Maximum with 50% share price increase:
– All elements are the same as Maximum but assuming a 50%
increase in share price.
150 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 151
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
2022 Remuneration policy report continued
Non-Executive Director remuneration policy 2022
Non-Executive Directors’ fees Change
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
Chair’s fees To provide an inclusive flat rate There is no formal maximum. However, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference
fee that is competitive with to a review of the Chair’s performance and independently sourced market data.
those paid by other companies
The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board
of equivalent size and
on the fees payable to the Chair. The Chair does not participate in discussions in respect of their fees.
complexity subject to the limits
contained in GSK’s Articles of
Association.
Basic fees As above There is no formal maximum. As with the Chair, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference to
independently sourced data.
The Chair and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the
fees payable to the company’s Non-Executive Directors.
Fee payment Alignment with shareholders Fees are paid in cash. Non-Executive Directors (including the Chair) are required to invest at least 25%
of their total net fees in shares or ADS of the company, but the company may choose to replace this with
an ownership requirement to hold shares or ADS with an aggregate value at or above one times their
gross annual standard fee until their retirement from the Board. If the current investment requirement is
replaced with this ownership requirement, shares or ADS previously acquired through investment of fees
would continue to be held under those arrangements and would be delivered or released following
retirement from the Board. Such shares or ADS would count towards any minimum ownership
requirement.
Supplemental To compensate Non-Executive Additional fees for the Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairs, Science and Medical Experts,
fees Directors (other than the the Workforce Engagement Director role and intercontinental travel.
Chair) for taking on additional The company has the authority to pay an additional fee, up to the equivalent of the Committee Chair
Board responsibilities or supplement to a Non-Executive Director, should the company require significant additional time
undertaking intercontinental commitment in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances.
travel.
The company has the authority to pay an additional fee of up to £200,000 to Non-Executive Directors
(excluding the Chair) who are members of the Science Committee for undertaking additional
responsibilities on behalf of GSK and to support R&D.
Benefits To facilitate execution of Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the normal course of business
responsibilities and duties in relation to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other GSK-hosted events. For overseas-
required by the role. based Non-Executive Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK. In the event it is necessary for
business purposes, whilst not normal practice, Non-Executive Directors may be accompanied by their
spouse or partner to these meetings or events. The costs associated with the above are all met by the
company and, in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable and therefore treated
as benefits for the Non-Executive Director.
Approach to recruitment remuneration No change
The following policy and principles apply to the roles of Chair Non-Executive Directors
and Non-Executive Director. It seeks to ensure alignment with Fee levels for new Non-Executive Directors will be set on the
shareholders through the requirement to invest in company same basis as for existing Non-Executive Directors of the
shares and ADS. company, subject to local laws and regulations.
In the event of a Non-Executive Director with a different role and
Chair
responsibilities being appointed, fee levels will be benchmarked
Fees will be set at a level that is competitive with those paid by
and set by reference to comparable roles in companies of
other companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fees will be
equivalent size and complexity.
paid partly in shares.
Loss of office No change
The Chair and other Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any payments in respect of fees for loss of office when they
retire or step down from the Board.2022 Remuneration policy report continued
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy
The Remuneration policy (Policy) is set out on pages 144 to 152 (ii) before the Policy came into effect, provided that the terms
of the 2021 Annual Report and it is intended that the Policy for of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved
GSK’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors will operate for a Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; or
period of three years from the date of approval at the company’s
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of
Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2022.
the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment
The Committee wrote the Policy principally in relation to the was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst of the company. For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the
taking into account the possible recruitment of a replacement Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and,
or an additional Executive Director during the operation of the in relation to an award over shares or ADS, the terms of the
Policy. The Committee intends the Policy to operate for the payment are ‘agreed’ at the time the award is granted.
period set out above in its entirety. However, it may after due
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards are subject to the
consideration seek to change the Policy during this period,
terms of the PSP plan rules under which the award has been
but only if it believes it is appropriate to do so for the long-term
granted. The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in
success of the company, after consultation with shareholders
accordance with the provisions of the plan rules. This includes
and having sought shareholder approval at a general meeting.
making adjustments to reflect one-off corporate events, such
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration as a change in the company’s capital structure.
payments and/or payments for loss of office (including
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy
exercising any discretions available to it in connection with
(for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes
such payments) notwithstanding that they are not in line with
or to take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining
the Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed:
shareholder approval for such amendments.
(i) before the AGM on 7 May 2014 (the date the company’s
first shareholder-approved Directors’ remuneration policy came Statement of consideration of shareholder views
into effect); The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders
and holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to
discuss and take feedback on its Remuneration policy practices
and governance matters.
Basis of preparation
The Annual report on remuneration has been prepared in The Annual report on remuneration has been approved
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations).
In accordance with the Regulations, the following parts of
Urs Rohner
the Annual report on remuneration are subject to audit: total Remuneration Committee Chair
remuneration figures for Executive Directors including further
28 February 2022
details for each element of remuneration (salary, benefits,
pension, annual bonus and long-term incentive awards);
Non-Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments received in the
year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests in GSK
share plans; payments to past Directors; payments for loss
of office; and share ownership requirements and holdings,
for which the opinion thereon is expressed on page 164. The
remaining sections of the Annual report on remuneration are
not subject to audit nor are the pages referred to from within
the audited sections.
152 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 153
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 154
Independent Auditor’s report 156
Financial statements 168
Notes to the financial statements 172
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP 252
GSK Annual Report 2021 153
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationDirectors’ statement of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
the Remuneration report and the Group and parent company records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
regulations. the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure
that the Group financial statements and the Remuneration
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of
statements for each financial year. The Directors are required
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding
to prepare the Group consolidated financial statements in
the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps
accordance with International Accounting Standards in
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006
and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as The Group financial statements for the year ended
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). 31 December 2021, comprising principal statements and
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company supporting notes, are set out in the ‘Financial statements’
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom on pages 168 to 251 of this report. The parent company
Accounting Standards and applicable law (United Kingdom financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2021,
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). Under company law comprising the balance sheet and the statement of changes in
the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless equity for the year ended 31 December 2021 and supporting
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state notes, are set out on pages 252 to 256.
of affairs of the Group and its profit or loss for that period.
The responsibilities of the auditor in relation to the financial
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are statements are set out in the Independent Auditor’s report on
required to: pages 156 to 167.
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2021
consistently; are included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed
form and made available on our website. The Directors are
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual
reasonable and prudent;
Report on our website in accordance with UK legislation
– state that the Group financial statements comply with governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
IFRS, as issued by the IASB and in conformity with the statements. Access to the website is available from outside
requirements of the Companies Act 2006; the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
– state with regard to the parent company financial statements Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are
that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Report 2021 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
explained in the parent company financial statements; and
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis in accordance with IFRS, as issued by the IASB and in
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the conformity with the requirements of Companies Act 2006,
parent company will continue in business. give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit of the Group; and
– the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
which represent the management report, include a fair review
of the development and performance of the business and the
position of the company and the Group taken as a whole,
together with a description of the principal risks and
uncertainties that it faces.
154 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 155
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Directors’ statement of responsibilities continued
Disclosure of information to auditor The 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code
The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the
each confirmed that: principles and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code maintained by the Financial Reporting
– so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit
Council, as described in the Corporate Governance section
information of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and
on pages 83 to 118. The Board further considers that the
– he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any understandable, and provides the information necessary for
relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance,
auditor is aware of that information. business model and strategy.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the the auditor has considered the Directors’ statement of
Companies Act 2006. compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate
Governance Code which are specified for their review.
Going concern basis
Pages 56 to 81 contain information on the performance of Annual Report
the Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2021,
and borrowing facilities. Further information, including Treasury comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration
risk management policies, exposures to market and credit risk report, the Financial statements and Additional information
and hedging activities, is given in Note 43 to the financial for investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors
statements, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. and signed on its behalf by
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters
considered in connection with the viability statement, the
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern
Chairman
basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
28 February 2022
Internal control
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed
the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that
operates in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the
system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year
covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval
by the Board of Directors. Further detail on the review of internal
controls is set out in the Governance report on page 112.Independent Auditor’s report to the members
of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
1. Opinion 2. Basis for opinion
In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
– The financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc (the ‘Parent
Our responsibilities under those standards are further
company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and
described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent
financial statements section of our report.
company’s affairs as at 31 December 2021 and of the
Group’s profit for the year then ended; We are independent of the Group and the Parent company in
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
– The Group financial statements have been properly prepared
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the
in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international
Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as
accounting standards and International Financial Reporting
applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our
Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the International Accounting
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
Standards Board (IASB);
requirements. We confirm that we have not provided any
– The Parent company financial statements have been properly non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard to
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally the Group or the Parent company, as noted in the Audit & Risk
Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 “Reduced Committee report within the Corporate Governance section of
Disclosure Framework”; and the Annual Report on page 111.
– The financial statements have been prepared in accordance We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the:
3. Audit scope and execution
Group
We structured our approach to the audit to reflect how the
– Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2021;
Group is organised as well as ensuring our audit was both
– Consolidated income statement for the year then ended;
effective and risk focused. Our audit approach can be
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the summarised into the following areas that enabled us to obtain
year then ended; the evidence required to form an opinion on the Group and
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year Parent company financial statements:
then ended;
– Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level. The
– Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; central control and common systems throughout most of the
and Group enabled us to structure our audit centrally. The use of
– Notes 1 to 47 to the financial statements, which includes the data analytic tools allowed for a more detailed understanding
accounting principles and policies. of the flow of transactions, enabling us to focus our risk
assessment and design targeted audit testing procedures.
Parent company Our risk assessment procedures considered, amongst other
– Balance sheet as at 31 December 2021; factors, the impact of the global pandemic and climate
change on the account balances, disclosures and company
– Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
practices. We appointed partners from the Group audit team
– Notes A to L to the financial statements, which includes the
to lead the global audit of each of the three business units
accounting principles and policies.
(pharmaceuticals, vaccines and consumer healthcare), in
addition to partners responsible for the component and legal
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
entity audits in each country. These global business unit
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law,
partners met regularly with senior business unit management
United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards
to understand the strategy, performance and other matters
and IFRSs as issued by the IASB. The financial reporting
which arose throughout the year that could have impacted the
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the
financial reporting. In addition, we held regular meetings with
Parent company financial statements is applicable law and
members of the Internal Audit, the internal Legal Counsel and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101
the Global Ethics & Compliance teams to understand their
“Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally
work and to review their reports to enhance our risk
Accepted Accounting Practice).
assessment;
– Audit work performed at global shared service centres.
A significant amount of the Group’s operational processes
that cover financial reporting is undertaken in shared service
centres. Our Group audit team included senior individuals
responsible for each of the global processes who
coordinated our audit work at the shared service centres
156 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 157
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
in-scope for the Group audit to ensure we developed a good The impact of climate change on our audit
understanding of the end-to-end processes that supported Climate change has the potential to impact the Group in a
material account balances, classes of transactions and number of ways as set out in the strategic report on pages
disclosures within the Group financial statements. We then 49 - 52 of the Annual Report and Notes 17, 19 and 20 of the
evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls over financial financial statements. The Group has set out their environmental
reporting for these processes and considered the goals under the Paris Climate Accord to have a net zero impact
implications for the remainder of our audit work; on climate and a net positive impact on nature by 2030.
– Audit work executed at component level and individual In the planning of our audit, we have considered the potential
legal entities. The following components were subject to impact of climate change on the Group’s business and its
audit procedures as well as the assessment of the financial statements.
effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting:
We have sought to understand the Group’s identification and
Australia; Belgium; Canada; China; France; Germany; Italy;
assessment of the potential impacts of climate change, how
Japan; Spain; Switzerland; United Kingdom; and the United
these risks influence the Group’s strategy and their implications
States. The Group audit team was in active dialogue
on the financial statements.
throughout the audit with the component audit teams
responsible for the audit work under the direction and The Group’s assessment focused on the impacts of more
supervision of the Group audit team. This included frequent extreme weather conditions, water scarcity, changes
determining whether the work was planned and performed in the political landscape and media focus which has the
in accordance with the overall Group audit strategy and the propensity to cause changes in consumer and market
requirements of our Group audit instructions to the behaviour; volatility in the costs and availability of materials and
components. Due to restrictions on overseas travel, we did resources that could impact future financial performance and
not visit the components this year, consistent with the prior asset valuations.
year. To satisfy ourselves that our oversight and supervision
In consultation with our climate change specialists, we:
was appropriate we performed remote reviews of audit
working papers using videoconferencing technology, – Conducted detailed risk assessment procedures across all
increased the frequency and length of those reviews in-scope balances and transactions to determine any risks of
depending on the significance and risk of the component and material misstatement in the financial statements by applying
continued to attend the planning and clearance meetings of the expected impact of climate change to our understanding
components; of the business;
– Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on the – Challenged the appropriateness of the Group’s assessment
parent company. In addition to the above, we also performed of the potential impact of climate change and the impact of
audit work on the Group and Parent company financial these on the financial statements, including in the area of
statements, including but not limited to the consolidation intangible assets as described in section 6 to this report; and
of the Group’s results, the preparation of the financial – Used our own assessment of the impact of climate change
statements, certain disclosures within the Directors’ to challenge the Group’s assessment of going concern,
Remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures in including considering the potential impact on future
addition to entity level and oversight controls relevant to performance and availability of financing.
financial reporting. All components or legal entities with
We have not been engaged to provide assurance over the
annual revenue greater than 1.8% of the total Group revenue
accuracy of climate change disclosures set out on pages 49
were included in our audit scope. The components or legal
to 52 in the Annual Report. As part of our audit procedures,
entities not covered by our audit scope were subject to
we are required to read and consider these disclosures to
analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there
consider whether they are materially inconsistent with the
were no significant risks of material misstatement in the
financial statements or knowledge obtained in the audit.
aggregated financial information; and
We did not identify any material inconsistencies as a result
– Internal controls testing approach. We tested the of these procedures.
effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting
across all in-scope entities and entity level controls at the 4. Our application of materiality
Group level. Common systems allowed for relevant IT
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the
controls to be tested centrally across all components. We
financial statements that makes it probable that the economic
were able to place reliance on controls where planned and
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be
it was more efficient. Notwithstanding the IT controls
changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the
deficiencies disclosed in the key audit matters section of
scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our
this report, mitigating controls existed which allowed us to
work.
continue to take reliance on controls where planned.
Our audit scope addressed 73% of the Group’s revenue,
76% of the Group’s profit before tax and 85% of the Group’s
total assets.Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Based on our professional judgement, we determined We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £10
million (2020 – £10 million) as well as any differences below
Parent company
Group financial statements financial statements this threshold, which in our view, warranted reporting on
Materiality £275 million £68 million qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit & Risk
(2020 – £290 million) (2020 – £68 million) Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when
Basis for In determining our benchmark for Materiality was assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
determining materiality, we considered the determined using the
materiality metrics used by investors and other total assets benchmark
5. Conclusions relating to going concern
readers of the financial statements. capped at 25% of
In particular, we considered: Group materiality. Our In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the
Statutory profit before tax, Adjusted materiality represents
directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the
profit before tax, Revenue and Net 0.1% of total assets.
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
cash flows from operations.
Using professional judgement, we Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group’s and
have determined materiality to be Parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern
£275 million.
basis of accounting included:
Metric %
– Enquiries of the Group directors and management regarding
Statutory profit before tax 5.1%
the assumptions used in the going concern models, including
Adjusted profit before tax* 4.1%
the potential impact of climate change;
Revenue 0.8%
Net cash inflow from 3.5% – Evaluating the Group’s existing access to sources of
operating activities financing, including undrawn committed bank facilities;
* A reconciliation between the Statutory
– Reading analyst reports, industry data and other external
profit before tax and Adjusted profit
before tax is detailed in the Adjusting information to determine if it provided corroborative or
Items section of the strategic report. contradictory evidence in relation to assumptions used;
– Comparing forecasted sales to recent historical financial
Rationale Given the importance of the above The Parent company
information;
for the metrics used by investors and other holds the Group’s
benchmark readers of the financial statements, investments and is not – Testing the underlying data generated to prepare the forecast
applied we concluded Statutory profit in itself profit-oriented.
scenarios and determined whether there was adequate
before tax to be the primary The strength of the
benchmark with Adjusted profit balance sheet is the key support for the assumptions underlying the forecast; and
before tax, Revenue and Net cash measure of financial
– Evaluating the Group’s disclosures on going concern against
inflow from operating activities the health that is important
supporting benchmarks. to shareholders since the requirements of IAS 1.
The component materiality the primary concern for Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified
allocated to the in-scope the Parent company is any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that,
components ranged between the payment of
£83 million and £193 million. dividends. Using a individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the
benchmark of total Group’s and Parent company’s ability to continue as a going
The range of materiality allocated
assets is therefore the concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the
across components in the audit
appropriate metric.
of the prior year’s Group financial financial statements are authorised for issue.
statements was between
In relation to the reporting on how the Group has applied the
£87 million and £203 million.
UK Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to
We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement in
to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and the financial statements about whether the Directors considered
undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
financial statements as a whole. Group and Parent company Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with
performance materiality was set at 70% of Group and Parent respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections
materiality respectively for the 2021 audit (2020 – 70%). In of this report.
determining performance materiality, we considered factors
including:
– Our risk assessment, including our assessment of the
Group’s overall control environment and that we consider it
appropriate to rely on controls over a number of business
processes; and
– Our past experience of the audit, which has indicated a low
number of corrected and uncorrected misstatements
identified in prior periods.
158 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 159
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
6. Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to
fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy, the allocation of
resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion on the
financial statements as a whole, we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of the ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent Audit procedures performed
consideration liability We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
The Group has completed a number of significant transactions related to the sales forecasts:
which resulted in the recognition of material contingent
– Obtained the Group’s assessment of the key inputs and
consideration liabilities, which are a key source of estimation
assumptions used in the forecasts and evaluated their
uncertainty. The most significant of these liabilities was the
appropriateness, including through enquiries of key individuals
ViiV Healthcare Shionogi Contingent Consideration Liability from the senior leadership team, commercial strategy team and
(ViiV CCL).
key personnel involved in the budgeting and forecasting process,
The Group completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% and inspection of supporting evidence;
interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012.
– Challenged the US volume assumptions made by the Group to
Upon completion, the Group recognised a contingent
estimate sales forecasts. This involved benchmarking forecast
consideration liability for the fair value of the expected future
market share data against external data, such as total
payments to be made to Shionogi. As at 31 December 2021
prescription volumes and new patient prescription volumes, in
the liability was valued at £5,559 million.
order to assess for any sources of contradictory evidence;
We identified the ViiV CCL as a key audit matter because of the
– Evaluated the reasonableness of US pricing assumptions by the
significant management estimates and assumptions relating to
Group, by comparing the forecasted Returns and Rebates rate
the sales forecasts used in valuing the ViiV CCL and the
by product against the current rate, and assessing the forecasted
sensitivity of the valuation to these inputs. The most significant
Returns and Rebates against comparable products and
of these relate to sales forecasts in the United States (US) on expected changes in payer policy;
certain products in the treatment portfolio. Such forecasts are
based on an assessment of the expected launch dates, the – Considered the results of clinical studies undertaken in the year
ability to shift market practice and prescriber behaviour towards by the Group and key competitors in order to assess whether
long-acting injectable treatments and 2-drug regimens, the these are corroborative or contradictory to assumptions used
continuing impact of COVID-19 related restrictions on HIV in the product portfolio sales forecasts in the US;
prescriptions and subsequent sales volumes and pricing. The
– Benchmarked the Group’s sales forecasts against those
forecasts also required significant audit effort to perform
included in reports from 14 analysts and considered sales
appropriate audit procedures to challenge and evaluate the
forecasts on both a total ViiV basis and an individual product
reasonableness of those forecasts.
basis, assessing against identified contradictory data;
As set out in Note 47 ‘Post balance sheet events’ of the Group
– Inspected the agreement with Gilead and evaluated
financial statements, the agreement reached with Gilead to
management’s approach to ensure it meets relevant accounting
settle the global patent infringement litigation relating to
standards requirements and that the inputs used in estimating
commercialisation of Gilead’s Biktarvy increases the future
the impact on the fair value of the ViiV CCL are consistent with
consideration payable to Shionogi and therefore impacts the fair
the agreement and external data; and
value of the ViiV CCL. As a result, in our audit we assessed
management’s estimate of this impact. – Tested the controls over the key inputs and assumptions used
in the valuation of the contingent consideration liability, including
Contingent consideration liabilities, including the ViiV CCL, are
review controls over the sales forecasts of the treatment product
disclosed as a key source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of
portfolio used to value the ViiV CCL.
the Group financial statements with further disclosures provided
in Notes 28, 32 and 43. The matter is also discussed in the Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate The sales forecasts used in the valuation are reasonable and in line
Governance section of the Annual Report. with relevant supporting information. We are satisfied that the sales
forecasts are reasonable appropriately reflect trends in the overall
HIV treatment market including changes in the competitive
environment and shifts towards both long-acting injectable
treatments and 2-drug regimens.
The approach to valuing the ViiV CCL was consistent with prior
periods and overall we are satisfied that the valuation liability is
reasonable and consistent with IFRS.Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals Audit procedures performed
In the US the Group sells to customers under various commercial We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
and government mandated contracts and reimbursement related to estimates in the RAR accruals:
arrangements that include rebates, chargebacks and a right of
– Challenged assumptions for a selection of utilisation rates,
return for certain pharmaceutical products. As such, revenue
focusing on certain products where we concluded the accrual is
recognition reflects gross-to-net sales adjustments. These
most sensitive to these assumptions. Our challenge included
adjustments are known as the Returns and Rebates (RAR)
comparison to historical utilisation rates, consideration of
accruals and are a source of significant estimation uncertainty
historical accuracy and drivers of market changes such as the
which could have a material impact on reported revenue.
impact of ongoing generic competition and the macroeconomic
In the US Pharmaceuticals business in 2021 $17,215 million of impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic;
RAR deductions were made to gross revenue of $33,598 million,
– Supplemented this with substantive analytical procedures by
resulting in net revenue of $16,383 million. The balance sheet
developing an independent expectation of the accrual balance
accrual at 31 December 2021 for the combined US
for each of the key segments, based on historical claims received
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses amounted to $6,795
adjusted to reflect market changes in the period including an
million.
assessment of the time lag between the initial point of sale and
The three most significant payer channels (also referred to as the claim receipt. We then compared this independent
buying groups) to which the RAR accrual relates are managed expectation to those recorded to evaluate the appropriateness of
healthcare organisations, Medicaid, Ryan White and Medicare the year ending accrual position;
Part D.
– Considered the historical accuracy of estimates and evaluated
The two main causes of significant estimation uncertainty are: whether forecast assumptions had been appropriately updated in
a selection of cases where the actual rebate claims differed to
– The utilisation rate, which is the portion of total sales that will
the amount accrued;
be made into each payer channel, estimated by the Group in
recording the accruals. The utilisation assumption is the most – Challenged the appropriateness of, and completeness of,
challenging of the key assumptions used to derive the accrual period-end adjustments to the liability made as part of the
given that it is influenced by market demand and other factors ongoing review of the estimated accrual; and
outside the control of the Group; and
– Tested the key controls over the estimation of RAR accruals
– The time lag between the point of sale and the point at which including the controls associated with the forecasting of
exact rebate amounts are known to the Group upon receipt of utilisation rates process and the month-end accrual review
a claim. Those payer channels with the longest time lag result controls.
in a greater accrued period, and therefore, a greater level of
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
estimation uncertainty in estimating the period end accrual.
We are satisfied that the estimated liability of the RAR accruals at
The level of estimation uncertainty is also impacted by significant
the year-end is appropriate. We observed a level of prudence in
shifts in channel mix driven by changes in the competitive
the estimate when assessing against our own independent
landscape, including competitor and generic product launches
expectations, which is in accordance with the requirements of IFRS
and other macroeconomic factors. As such, we focus on the
15 Revenue from contracts with customers to limit the risk of a
utilisation assumptions for those products where we deem the
significant reversal of revenue.
level of estimation uncertainty to be the most significant.
Furthermore, auditing standards presume that a significant fraud
risk exists in revenue recognition. In line with this presumption, we
also focus on the period-end adjustments made to the RAR
accruals. These adjustments reflected updates made to the initial
assumptions included within the forecasted RAR rates and, in our
view, present the greatest opportunity for fraud in revenue
recognition (notwithstanding the existence of internal controls).
US Pharmaceuticals returns and rebates are disclosed as a key
source of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the Group financial
statements with further disclosures provided in Note 28. The
matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report
within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
160 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 161
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of other intangible assets Audit procedures performed
As at 31 December 2021, the Group held £29,115 million of We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others,
other intangible assets (including licences, patents, trademarks related to the future sales growth, likelihood of successful new
and brand names, but excluding goodwill and computer product innovations and profit margin levels used in the assessment
software). The recoverable amount of these other intangible of other intangible assets for impairment:
assets relies on certain assumptions and estimates of future
– Met with the key individuals from the senior leadership team,
trading performance which create estimation uncertainty.
product category leads, and key personnel involved in the
The assets most at risk of material impairment were identified forecasting process to discuss and evaluate the Group’s
using sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and a review of evidence to support future sales growth rates and profitability
potential triggering events that could be indicative of an assumptions;
impairment in the carrying value of associated assets. As a
– Evaluated the Group’s risk assessment of the impact of climate
result of this analysis, we performed additional audit procedures
change on long term forecasts which focused on the largest
on certain indefinite life Consumer Healthcare intangible assets.
products with material carrying values and the least headroom
Key assumptions applied in determining the recoverable amount by comparing to external data points.
include the future sales growth rates and profit margin levels, as
– Evaluated the business assumptions applied in estimating sales
well as the likelihood of successful new product innovations.
and gross profit margin forecasts, including benchmarking of
Changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment of forecasts against external market data and actual trading
the carrying value of the other intangible assets.
performance costs. This included independent market research
We identified the valuation of other intangible assets as a key of expected category growth and assessment of any sources of
audit matter due to the inherent judgements involved in contradictory evidence;
estimating future cash flows. During the year there was
– Compared the forecast sales and gross profit margins to the
increased uncertainty brought about by the COVID-19
Plan data (asset by asset internal forecasts) approved by the
pandemic and associated lockdowns. Auditing such estimates
GSK Leadership Team and the Board of Directors;
required extensive audit effort to challenge and evaluate the
reasonableness of forecasts. – Assessed the historical accuracy of forecasts including
consumption data and estimates of new sales from innovation;
The disclosures relating to other intangible assets are included
in Note 20 and 40 of the Group financial statements. The matter – Considered whether events or transactions that occurred after
is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report within the balance sheet date but before the reporting date affect the
the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. conclusions reached on the carrying values of the assets and
associated disclosures; and
– Tested review controls over the key inputs and assumptions used
in the valuation of other intangible assets. The controls
encompass review of the valuation models, which contain a
number of assumptions such as the revenue growth rates and
profit margins.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
Our audit challenged the future forecast performance of consumer
healthcare products, and we concluded that the assumptions
underpinning the impairment review of intangible assets were
reasonable and in accordance with IFRS.Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer Audit procedures performed
pricing With the support of tax specialists, we assessed the
The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and there are appropriateness of the uncertain tax provisions by performing the
open tax and transfer pricing matters and exposures with UK, following audit procedures amongst others:
US and overseas tax authorities that give rise to uncertain tax
– Assessed and challenged provisions for uncertain tax positions
positions. There is a wide range of possible outcomes for
through the evaluation of possible outcomes. Our procedures
provisions and contingencies. Certain judgements in respect of
were focused on those jurisdictions where the Group has the
estimates of tax exposures and contingencies are required in
greatest potential exposure and where the highest level of
order to assess the adequacy of tax provisions, which are
judgement is required;
sometimes complex as a result of the considerations required
over multiple tax laws and regulations. – Assessed the assumptions and judgements that are required to
determine the range of possible outcomes for recognition and
At 31 December 2021, the Group has recorded provisions of
measurement of uncertain tax positions in compliance with the
£858 million in respect of uncertain tax positions.
requirements of IFRIC 23;
Valuation of uncertain tax positions is disclosed as a key source
– Involved our transfer pricing specialists to evaluate the transfer
of estimation uncertainty in Note 3 of the Group financial
pricing methodology of the Group and associated approach to
statements with further disclosures included in Note 14. The
provision recognition and measurement;
matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report
within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. – Considered evidence such as the actual results from the recent
tax authority audits and enquiries, third-party tax advice obtained
by the Group and our tax specialists’ own knowledge of market
practice in relevant jurisdictions; and
– Tested key controls over preparation, review and reporting of
judgmental tax balances and transactions, which include
provisions for uncertain tax provisions.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
We are satisfied that the estimates in relation to uncertain tax
positions and the related disclosures are in accordance with IFRS.
From our work we concluded that a consistent approach has been
applied to estimating uncertain tax provisions which, whilst
continuing to be prudent as required by IFRIC 23, are appropriate
and supportable.
162 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 163
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
IT systems which impact financial reporting Audit procedures performed
The IT systems within the Group form a critical component of Our IT audit scope is driven by the level of reliance placed on
the Group’s financial reporting activities and impact all account technology to obtain sufficient audit evidence within a business
balances. process. The technology deemed relevant to the audit is based on
the financial data, system configured automated controls and/or key
We identified the IT systems that impact financial reporting as a
financial reports that reside within it. We used IT specialists to
key audit matter because of the:
support our evaluation of the risks associated with technology and
– Pervasive reliance on complex technology that is integral to with the testing of the design and operation of IT controls.
the operation of key business processes and financial
Testing over the technology deemed relevant to the audit included
reporting;
the following areas:
– Reliance on technology which continues to increase in line
– General IT controls, including user access and change
with the business strategy, such as the increase in the use of
management controls;
automation across the Group;
– Key financial reports and system configured automated controls;
– Importance of the IT controls in maintaining an effective
control environment. A key interdependency exists between – Controls to provide assurance over the completeness and
the ability to rely on IT controls and the ability to rely on accuracy of relevant data migrations; and
financial data, system configured automated controls and
– Testing of remediation of previously identified deficiencies.
system reports;
Our risk assessment procedures included an assessment of the
– Continued remediation of IT controls supporting the
impact of all unremediated IT control deficiencies to determine the
application systems relevant to the Group’s financial
impact on our audit plan. Where relevant, the audit plan was
reporting activities; and
adjusted to include the testing of additional manual business
– The implementation of application systems in key business process controls to mitigate the unaddressed IT risk.
areas during the year.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
IT systems which impact financial reporting are discussed in
We are satisfied that IT controls impacting the Group’s financial
the Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate
reporting activities are designed and operating effectively or control
Governance section of the Annual Report.
deficiencies identified were remediated by year end or mitigated by
compensating controls.
Significant progress was made in the year in remediating control
deficiencies relating to user access and change management. The
Group has many layers of business process controls to mitigate the
risk associated with the remaining IT control deficiencies.Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
7. Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s
report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the other information contained within the Annual Report. Our opinion on the
financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise
to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there
is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We summarise below our work in relation to areas of the other information including those areas upon which we are specifically
required to report:
Matters we are specifically required to report
Our responsibility Our reporting
Principal risks and viability statement
Review the confirmation and description in the light of the knowledge As set out in the “Corporate governance statement”
gathered during the audit, such as through considering the directors’ section, we have nothing material to report, add or draw
processes to support the statements made, challenging key judgements attention to in respect of these matters.
and estimates, consideration of historical forecasting accuracy and evaluating
macro-economic assumptions.
Consider if the statements are aligned with the relevant provisions of the Code.
Directors’ Remuneration report
Report whether the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to be audited As set out in the ‘Opinions on other matters prescribed by
is properly prepared and the disclosures specified by the Companies Act the Companies Act 2006’ section, in our opinion, the part
have been made. of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has
been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act
2006.
Strategic report and directors’ report
Report whether they are consistent with the audited financial statements and As set out in the “Opinions on other matters prescribed
are prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. by the Companies Act 2006” section, in our opinion,
based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit,
Report if we have identified any material misstatements in either report in the
the information in these reports is consistent with the
light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent
audited financial statements and has been prepared in
company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
accordance with applicable legal requirements.
164 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 165
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Other reporting on other information
Our responsibility Our reporting
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
APMs are measures that are not defined by generally accepted accounting In our opinion:
practice (GAAP) and therefore are not typically included in the financial
– the use, calculation and disclosure of APMs is
statement part of the Annual Report. The Group use APMs, such as adjusted
consistent with the Group’s published definitions and
profit, free cash flow and constant currency growth rates in its reporting of
policies;
financial performance.
– the use of APMs in the Group’s reporting results is
We have reviewed and assessed the calculation and reporting of these
consistent with the guidelines produced by ESMA and
metrics to assess consistency with the Group’s published definitions and
FRC; and
policies for these items.
– there is an appropriate balance between the use of
We have also considered and assessed whether the use of APMs in the
statutory metrics and APMs, together with clear
Group’s reporting results is consistent with the guidelines produced by
definitions and reconciliation for APMs used in financial
regulators such as the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA)
reporting.
guidelines on the use of APMs and the FRC Alternative Performance
Measures Thematic Review published in October 2021.
We also considered whether there was an appropriate balance between the
use of statutory metrics and APMs, in addition to whether clear definitions and
reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting have been provided.
Dividends and distribution policy
Consider whether the dividends policy is transparent, and the dividends paid In our opinion the dividends policy is appropriately
are consistent with the policy, as outlined in the strategic report on page 69. disclosed, and dividends paid are consistent with the
policy.
8. Responsibilities of directors 9. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee
due to fraud or error. that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
responsible for assessing the Group’s and the Parent
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
on the basis of these financial statements.
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either
intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms
part of our auditor’s report.Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Audit response to risks identified
10. Extent to which the audit was considered
As a result of performing the above, we identified the Valuation
capable of detecting irregularities, including
of US Returns and Rebates accruals as a key audit matter
fraud related to the potential risk of fraud. The key audit matters
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with describes the specific procedures in response to that key audit
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material matter. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk
extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting of management override.
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks
identified included the following:
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to
irregularities – reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to
In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in supporting documentation to assess compliance with
respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as
with laws and regulations, we considered the following: having a direct effect on the financial statements;
– the nature of the industry and sector, control environment and – enquiring of the senior leadership team, the Audit & Risk
business performance including the design of the Group’s Committee and in-house and external legal counsel
remuneration policies, key drivers for directors’ remuneration, concerning actual and potential litigation and claims;
bonus levels and performance targets;
– performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or
– results of our enquiries of the senior leadership team, internal unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material
audit and the Audit & Risk Committee, including obtaining misstatement due to fraud;
and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the
– reading minutes of meetings of those charged with
Group’s policies and procedures relating to:
governance, reviewing internal audit reports and
– identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and correspondence with regulators; and
regulations and whether they were aware of any instances
– in addressing the risk of fraud through management override
of non-compliance;
of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and
– detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made
they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential
fraud; and bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of
– the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to
business.
fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations; and
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations
– the matters discussed among the engagement team including
and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members and
significant component audit teams and involving relevant
significant component audit teams and remained alert to any
internal specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions, IT and
indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and
industry specialists regarding how and where fraud might
regulations throughout the audit.
occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators
of fraud.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory
frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on provisions
11. Opinions on other matters prescribed by
of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the
the Companies Act 2006
determination of material amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. The key laws and regulations we In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration report to
considered in this context included the provisions of the UK be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act, pensions legislation and tax legislation. We Companies Act 2006.
have also considered key laws and regulations that had a
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of
fundamental effect on the operations of the Group, including
the audit:
the Good Clinical Practice, the FDA regulations, General Data
Protection requirements, Anti-bribery and corruption policy and – the information given in the strategic report and the directors’
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. report for the financial year for which the financial statements
are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
– the strategic report and the directors’ report have been
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
166 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 167
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group Directors’ remuneration
and of the Parent company and their environment obtained in Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report
the course of the audit, we have not identified any material if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report. have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration
report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting
12. Corporate governance statement records and returns.
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statement in We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of
the corporate governance statement relating to the Group’s 14. Other matters which we are required to
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate address
Governance Code specified for our review.
Auditor tenure
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have
Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee,
concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate
with effect from 1 January 2018 we were appointed by the
Governance Statement is materially consistent with the financial
Board of Directors to audit the financial statements for the year
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
ended 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
– the directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness The period of total uninterrupted engagement of the firm is four
of adopting the going concern basis of accounting and any years.
material uncertainties identified set out on page 154;
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to
– the directors’ explanation as to its assessment of the Group’s
the Audit & Risk Committee
prospects, the period this assessment covers and why the
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the
period is appropriate is set out on page 53;
Audit & Risk Committee we are required to provide in
– the directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable accordance with ISAs (UK).
Annual Report set out on page 115;
15. Use of our report
– the board’s confirmation that it has carried out a robust
assessment of the emerging and principal risks set out on This report is made solely to the Parent company’s members,
pages 46 to 48; as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so
– the section of the Annual Report that describes the review of
that we might state to the Parent company’s members those
effectiveness of risk management and internal control
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report
systems set out on pages 111 to 112; and
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
– the section describing the work of the audit and risk
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
committee set out on pages 111 to 115.
the Parent company and the Parent company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
13. Matters on which we are required to report by have formed.
exception
In due course, as required by the Financial Conduct Authority
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records (FCA) Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule (DTR)
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to 4.1.14R, these financial statements will form part of the
you if, in our opinion: European Single Electronic Format (ESEF)-prepared Annual
Financial Report filed on the National Storage Mechanism of the
– we have not received all the information and explanations we
UK FCA in accordance with the ESEF Regulatory Technical
require for our audit; or
Standard (ESEF RTS). This auditor’s report provides no
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the assurance over whether the annual financial report has been
Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not prepared using the single electronic format specified in the
been received from branches not visited by us; or ESEF RTS.
– the Parent company financial statements are not in agreement The Parent company has passed a resolution in accordance
with the accounting records and returns. with section 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior
statutory auditor’s name should not be stated.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
28 February 2022Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2021
2021 2020 2019
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 34,114 34,099 33,754
Cost of sales (11,603) (11,704) (11,863)
Gross profit 22,511 22,395 21,891
Selling, general and administration (10,975) (11,456) (11,402)
Research and development (5,278) (5,098) (4,568)
Royalty income 419 318 351
Other operating (expense)/income 7 (476) 1,624 689
Operating profit 8 6,201 7,783 6,961
Finance income 11 28 44 98
Finance expense 12 (784) (892) (912)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 33 33 74
Loss on disposal of interest in associates (36) – –
Profit before taxation 5,442 6,968 6,221
Taxation 14 (346) (580) (953)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,096 6,388 5,268
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 711 639 623
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,385 5,749 4,645
5,096 6,388 5,268
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 87.6p 115.5p 93.9p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 86.6p 114.1p 92.6p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2021
2021 2020 2019
Notes £m £m £m
Profit for the year 5,096 6,388 5,268
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 37 (239) (59) (832)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries and associates 37 (25) 36 (75)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 5 (19) (20)
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges (8) (18) 16
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 12 54 3
(255) (6) (908)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 37 (20) (34) (75)
Fair value movements on equity investments (911) 1,348 372
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments 131 (220) (95)
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 941 (187) (1,050)
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit plans (223) 69 189
(82) 976 (659)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 37 (337) 970 (1,567)
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,759 7,358 3,701
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 4,068 6,753 3,153
Non-controlling interests 691 605 548
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,759 7,358 3,701
168 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 169
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consolidated balance sheet
as at 31 December 2021
2021 2020
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 9,932 10,176
Right of use assets 18 740 830
Goodwill 19 10,552 10,597
Other intangible assets 20 30,079 29,824
Investments in associates and joint ventures 21 88 364
Other investments 22 2,126 3,060
Deferred tax assets 14 5,218 4,287
Derivative financial instruments 43 18 5
Other non-current assets 23 1,676 1,041
Total non-current assets 60,429 60,184
Current assets
Inventories 24 5,783 5,996
Current tax recoverable 14 486 671
Trade and other receivables 25 7,860 6,952
Derivative financial instruments 43 188 152
Liquid investments 29 61 78
Cash and cash equivalents 26 4,274 6,292
Assets held for sale 27 22 106
Total current assets 18,674 20,247
Total assets 79,103 80,431
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 29 (3,601) (3,725)
Contingent consideration liabilities 32 (958) (765)
Trade and other payables 28 (17,554) (15,840)
Derivative financial instruments 43 (227) (221)
Current tax payable 14 (489) (545)
Short-term provisions 31 (841) (1,052)
Total current liabilities (23,670) (22,148)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 29 (20,572) (23,425)
Corporation tax payable 14 (180) (176)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (3,556) (3,600)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 30 (3,113) (3,650)
Other provisions 31 (630) (707)
Derivative financial instruments 43 (1) (10)
Contingent consideration liabilities 32 (5,118) (5,104)
Other non-current liabilities 33 (921) (803)
Total non-current liabilities (34,091) (37,475)
Total liabilities (57,761) (59,623)
Net assets 21,342 20,808
Equity
Share capital 36 1,347 1,346
Share premium account 36 3,301 3,281
Retained earnings 37 7,944 6,755
Other reserves 37 2,463 3,205
Shareholders’ equity 15,055 14,587
Non-controlling interests 6,287 6,221
Total equity 21,342 20,808
The financial statements on pages 168 to 251 were approved by the Board on 28 February 2022 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
ChairmanConsolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2021
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Non-controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves* Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 31 December 2018, as revised 1,345 3,091 (2,716) 2,061 3,781 (109) 3,672
Implementation of IFRS 16 – – (93) – (93) – (93)
At 31 December 2018, as adjusted 1,345 3,091 (2,809) 2,061 3,688 (109) 3,579
Profit for the year – – 4,645 – 4,645 623 5,268
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (1,766) 274 (1,492) (75) (1,567)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 2,879 274 3,153 548 3,701
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (364) (364)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – (10) (10)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,953) – (3,953) – (3,953)
Recognition of interest in Consumer Healthcare JV – – 8,082 – 8,082 6,887 14,969
Realised losses on disposal of equity investments – – (4) 4 – – –
Shares issued 1 50 – – 51 – 51
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 33 295 (328) – – –
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (344) 344 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 365 – 365 – 365
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 19 – 19 – 19
At 31 December 2019 1,346 3,174 4,530 2,355 11,405 6,952 18,357
Profit for the year – – 5,749 – 5,749 639 6,388
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (133) 1,137 1,004 (34) 970
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 5,616 1,137 6,753 605 7,358
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (1,208) (1,208)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – – – – – 3 3
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – (131) (131)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,977) – (3,977) – (3,977)
Shares issued – 29 – – 29 – 29
Realised profits on disposal of equity investments – – 163 (163) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits – – 44 (44) – – –
on disposal of equity investments
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 78 531 (609) – – –
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (529) 529 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 381 – 381 – 381
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (4) – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2020 1,346 3,281 6,755 3,205 14,587 6,221 20,808
Profit for the year – – 4,385 – 4,385 711 5,096
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – 454 (771) (317) (20) (337)
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 4,839 (771) 4,068 691 4,759
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (642) (642)
Contributions from non-controlling interests – – – – – 7 7
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,999) – (3,999) – (3,999)
Realised profits on disposal of equity investments – – 132 (132) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits – – 7 (7) – – –
on disposal of equity investments
Shares issued 1 20 – – 21 – 21
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (168) 168 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 367 – 367 – 367
Transactions with non-controlling interests – – – – – 10 10
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 11 – 11 – 11
At 31 December 2021 1,347 3,301 7,944 2,463 15,055 6,287 21,342
* an analysis of Other reserves is presented as part of Note 37, ‘Movements in equity’.
170 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 171
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Consolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 December 2021
2021 2020 2019
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 5,096 6,388 5,268
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 41 4,147 3,708 4,264
Cash generated from operations 9,243 10,096 9,532
Taxation paid (1,291) (1,655) (1,512)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,952 8,441 8,020
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,172) (1,226) (1,265)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 143 68 95
Purchase of intangible assets (1,759) (1,013) (898)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 772 1,255 404
Purchase of equity investments (162) (411) (258)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 202 3,269 69
Contingent consideration paid (114) (120) (113)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 40 – 15 (3,571)
Disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed 40 (17) 259 104
Investments in associates and joint ventures 40 (1) (4) (11)
(Increase)/decrease in liquid investments 18 (1) 1
Interest received 27 39 82
Proceeds from disposal of associates and joint ventures 277 – –
Dividends from associates, joint ventures and equity investments 9 31 7
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities (1,777) 2,161 (5,354)
Cash flow from financing activities
Issue of share capital 36 21 29 51
Purchase of non-controlling interests – – (7)
Increase in long-term loans – 3,298 4,794
Repayment of short-term Notes (2,313) (3,738) (4,160)
(Repayment of)/increase in other short-term loans 318 (3,567) 3,095
Repayment of lease liabilities (215) (227) (214)
Interest paid (786) (864) (895)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,999) (3,977) (3,953)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (642) (1,208) (364)
Contributions from non-controlling interests 7 3 –
Other financing cash flows 20 119 (187)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (7,589) (10,132) (1,840)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts 42 (1,414) 470 826
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,262 4,831 4,087
Exchange adjustments (29) (39) (82)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,414) 470 826
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,819 5,262 4,831
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 4,274 6,292 4,707
Cash and cash equivalents reported in assets held for sale – – 507
4,274 6,292 5,214
Overdrafts (455) (1,030) (383)
3,819 5,262 4,831Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business Financial period
GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged These financial statements cover the financial year from
in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture and 1 January to 31 December 2021, with comparative figures for
marketing of pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the- the financial years from 1 January to 31 December 2020 and,
counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer where appropriate, from 1 January to 31 December 2019.
products. GSK’s principal pharmaceutical products include
Accounting principles and policies
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: respiratory,
HIV, immuno-inflammation, oncology as well as metabolic, The financial statements have been prepared using the
anti-bacterials and dermatology. historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain
items, as stated in the accounting policies, and on a going
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS concern basis.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with international accounting standards in conformity with the
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the International
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’.
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB.
Information on the application of these accounting policies,
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3,
Composition of financial statements
‘Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling,
uncertainty’.
the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in
accordance with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
statements comprise: generally accepted accounting principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
– Consolidated income statement
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
– Consolidated balance sheet the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Parent company financial statements
– Consolidated cash flow statement
The financial statements of the parent company,
– Notes to the financial statements.
GlaxoSmithKline plc, have been prepared in accordance with
Composition of the Group UK GAAP and with UK accounting presentation. The company
A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion balance sheet is presented on page 252 and the accounting
of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net policies are given on pages 253 to 256.
assets of the Group is given in Note 45, ‘Principal Group
companies’.
2. Accounting principles and policies
Consolidation Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over,
The consolidated financial statements include: and rights to, the net assets of entities, the entities are
accounted for as joint ventures. Where the Group has the ability
– the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of
to exercise joint control over an arrangement, but has rights to
the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
specified assets and obligations for specified liabilities of the
– the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates arrangement, the arrangement is accounted for as a joint
and joint ventures operation. Where the Group has the ability to exercise
significant influence over entities, they are accounted for as
– the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
associates. The results and assets and liabilities of associates
of joint operations.
and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
to 31 December each year. The Group’s rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial
relevant activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, statements in accordance with those rights and obligations.
generally through control over the financial and operating Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
policies, are accounted for as subsidiaries. Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated
from the date control ceases.
172 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 173
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets
and no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries and the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries,
until the products are sold to customers outside the Group. associates and joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less
The relevant proportion of profits on transactions with joint exchange differences arising on related foreign currency
ventures, joint operations and associates is also deferred until borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment in these
the products are sold to third parties. Transactions with non- operations, are taken to a separate component of equity within
controlling interests are recorded directly in equity. Deferred Retained Earnings.
tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit is accounted for only
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results
to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
Business combinations ventures which are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary
economies, adjustments are made where material to reflect
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition
current price levels. Any loss on net monetary assets is charged
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
to the consolidated income statement.
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and Revenue
includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
Turnover
The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities are
The Group receives revenue for supply of goods to external
reassessed at each balance sheet date with changes customers against orders received. The majority of contracts
recognised in the income statement. Payments of contingent
that GSK enters into relate to sales orders containing single
consideration reduce the balance sheet liability and as a result
performance obligations for the delivery of pharmaceutical,
are not recorded in the income statement.
vaccine and consumer healthcare products. The average
The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of the duration of a sales order is less than 12 months.
fair value of the contingent consideration on acquisition is
Product revenue is recognised when control of the goods is
reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement and
passed to the customer. The point at which control passes is
the part of each payment relating to the increase in the liability
determined by each customer arrangement, but generally occurs
since the acquisition date is reported within operating cash flows.
on delivery to the customer.
Where the consideration transferred, together with the non-
Product revenue represents net invoice value including fixed and
controlling interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets,
variable consideration. Variable consideration arises on the sale of
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is goods as a result of discounts and allowances given and accruals
recorded as goodwill. The costs of effecting an acquisition
for estimated future returns and rebates. Revenue is not
are charged to the income statement in the period in which
recognised in full until it is highly probable that a significant reversal
they are incurred.
in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur.
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates
subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of
of joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated in contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience
the currency of the operation acquired. and projected market conditions. Estimates associated with
returns and rebates are revisited at each reporting date or when
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net
they are resolved and revenue is adjusted accordingly. Please refer
assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the
to Note 3 for the details on rebates, discounts and allowances.
income statement.
The Group has entered into collaborative agreements, typically
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the
with other pharmaceuticals or biotechnology companies to
non-controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the
develop, produce and market drug candidates and vaccines that
non-controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary,
do not qualify as joint arrangements. When GSK has control over
on a case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership
the commercialisation activities, the Group recognises turnover
percentage of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity.
and cost of sales on a gross basis. Profit sharing amounts and
Foreign currency translation royalties due to the counterparty are recorded within cost of sales.
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional Cost of sales includes profit sharing costs of £640 million (2020
currency of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling – £4 million; 2019 – £54 million). When the counterparty controls
on the date of transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets the commercialisation activities and records the sale, the Group is
and liabilities are retranslated into the functional currency at not deemed principal in the customer contract and instead records
rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. Exchange its share of gross profit as co-promotion income, on a net basis,
differences are included in the income statement. within turnover. The nature of co-promotion activities is such that
the Group records no costs of sales. Pharmaceutical turnover
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related
includes co-promotion revenue of £7 million (2020 – £12 million;
goodwill, of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
2019 – £16 million). Reimbursements to and from the counterparty
ventures, are translated into Sterling at rates of exchange
in our collaborations for ‘selling, general and administration’ and
ruling at the balance sheet date. The results and cash flows
‘research and development’ costs are recorded net in the
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are
respective lines in the Consolidated income statement.
translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange.Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Other operating income and royalty income This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total costs and
GSK enters into development and marketing collaborations also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’ costs
and out-licences of the Group’s compounds or products to when it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their
other parties. These contracts give rise to fixed and variable respective shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of
consideration from upfront payments, development milestones, reimbursements are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
sales-based milestones and royalties.
Legal and other disputes
Income dependent on the achievement of a development
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
milestone is recognised when it is highly probable that a
other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources
significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue
is considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of
recognised will not occur, which is usually when the related event
the likely outcome. In respect of product liability claims related
occurs. Sales-based milestone income is recognised when it is
to certain products, provision is made when there is sufficient
highly probable that the sales threshold will be reached.
history of claims made and settlements to enable management
Sales-based royalties on a licence of intellectual property are to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to cover
not recognised until the relevant product sale occurs. unasserted claims.
For all revenue, if the time between the recognition of revenue In certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial
and payment from the customer is expected to be more than technique is used to determine this estimate. In addition,
one year and the impact is material, the amount of consideration provision is made for legal or other expenses arising from
is discounted using appropriate discount rates. claims received or other disputes.
Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue. The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in
respect of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess
Expenditure
whether the outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services quantify or reliably estimate the liability. In these cases,
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability but no provision would be made.
in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
Costs associated with claims made by the Group against third
obligation can be reliably estimated. Manufacturing start-up
parties are charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
costs between validation and the achievement of normal
production are expensed as incurred. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes
statement as incurred. are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from
Shipment costs on inter-company transfers are charged to cost
the employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified
of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers are included in
actuaries.
selling, general and administrative expenditure.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
yields of high-quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets are
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
affected has been undertaken. The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in
a similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread
Research and development
over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived
Research and development expenditure is charged to the from the employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of
income statement in the period in which it is incurred. qualified actuaries. The service cost of providing retirement
Development expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for benefits to employees during the year, together with the cost of
recognising an asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing any curtailment, is charged to operating profit in the year.
has been made in a major market and approval is considered
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial
highly probable. Property, plant and equipment used for
assumptions are recognised in the statement of comprehensive
research and development is capitalised and depreciated
income in the year in which they arise.
in accordance with the Group’s policy.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are
Environmental expenditure
charged to the income statement as incurred.
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions
resulting from past or current operations and from which no Employee share plans
current or future benefit is discernible is charged to the income Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees
statement. The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site under share option and share award schemes.
basis when it can be reliably estimated.
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and
charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
174 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 175
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase Non-lease components are accounted for separately from the
company shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when lease components in plant and equipment leases but are not
employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running the separately accounted for in land and buildings or vehicle leases.
ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
If modifications or reassessments of lease obligations occur, the
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other lease liability and right of use asset are re-measured.
reserves. A transfer is made between other reserves and retained
Right of use assets where title is expected to pass to GSK at
earnings over the vesting periods of the related share options or
a point in the future are depreciated on a basis consistent with
awards to reflect the ultimate proceeds receivable from
similar owned assets. In other cases, right of use assets are
employees on exercise.
depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or
Property, plant and equipment the lease term.
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of Goodwill
purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
deemed to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for
qualifying assets in construction.
impairment at least annually.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual
Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s
value of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the
basis over the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are
consideration paid, this excess is recognised immediately
reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted annually. The normal
as a gain in the income statement.
expected useful lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
Other intangible assets
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for
Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
amortisation and impairments.
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial
exceeding 30 years, using the straight-line basis, from the
statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken
time they are available for use. The estimated useful lives for
to the income statement.
determining the amortisation charge take into account patent
Leases lives (exclusivity period), where applicable, as well as the value
The Group recognises right of use assets under lease obtained from periods of non-exclusivity. For Pharmaceutical
arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term intangible assets, depending on the characteristics, competitive
leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or environment and estimated long-term profits of the asset,
less) and leases of low value assets. Rights to use assets between 80% to 90% of the book value is amortised over the
owned by third parties under lease agreements are capitalised exclusivity period on a straight-line basis and the remaining
at the inception of the lease and recognised on the consolidated book value is amortised over a non-exclusivity period of 5-15
balance sheet. years on a straight-line basis. For Vaccines intangible assets,
cost is usually amortised over the exclusivity period plus 10
The corresponding liability to the lessor is recognised as a lease
years, or 30 years if no exclusivity period is granted, on a
obligation within short and long-term borrowings. The carrying
straight-line basis. Asset lives are reviewed, and where
amount is subsequently increased to reflect interest on the
appropriate adjusted, annually.
lease liability and reduced by lease payments made.
Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point
For calculating the discounted lease liability on leases with annual
that the contingent event becomes probable. Any development
payments of £2 million or more, the implicit rate in the lease is
costs incurred by the Group and associated with acquired
used. If this is not available, the incremental borrowing rate with a
licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off
lease specific adjustment is used. If neither of these is available,
to the income statement when incurred, unless the criteria for
and for leases with annual payments of less than £2 million, the
recognition of an internally-generated intangible asset are met,
incremental borrowing rate is used. The incremental borrowing
usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major market
rate is calculated at the rate of interest at which GSK would have
and approval is considered highly probable.
been able to borrow for a similar term and with a similar security
the funds necessary to obtain a similar asset in a similar market. Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value
of businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a
Finance costs are charged to the income statement so as to
value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands
produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining
either are contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately
balance of the obligations for each accounting period.
from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised
Variable rents are not part of the lease liability and the right of use over their estimated useful lives of up to 20 years using the
asset. These payments are charged to the income statement as straight-line basis, except where it is considered that the useful
incurred. Short-term and low-value leases are not capitalised and economic life is indefinite.
lease rentals are also charged to the income statement as incurred.Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for Expected credit losses are recognised in the income statement
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as on financial assets measured at amortised cost and at fair value
intangible fixed assets where the software or site supports a through other comprehensive income apart from equity
significant business system and the expenditure leads to the investments.
creation of a durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised
Other investments
over seven to ten years and other computer software over three
Other investments comprise equity investments and
to five years using the straight-line basis.
investments in limited life funds. The Group has elected to
Impairment of non-current assets designate the majority of its equity investments as measured at
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for FVTOCI. They are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to
cash generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets fair value. Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in other
might be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with comprehensive income.
indefinite useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet
On disposal of the equity investment, gains and losses that have
available for use are tested for impairment annually. Any
been deferred in Other comprehensive income are transferred
provision for impairment is charged to the income statement
directly to retained earnings. Investments in limited life funds are
in the year concerned.
measured at FVTPL. They are initially recorded at fair value and
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
other non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a Unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the income
change in estimates used to determine recoverable amounts statement.
and only to the extent that the revised recoverable amounts do
Dividends on equity investments and distributions from funds
not exceed the carrying values that would have existed, net of
are recognised in the income statement when the Group’s right
depreciation or amortisation, had no impairments been
to receive payment is established.
recognised.
Purchases and sales of Other investments are accounted for
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint on the trade date.
operations
Trade receivables
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
Trade receivables are measured in accordance with the
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net
business model under which each portfolio of trade receivables
assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition
is held. The Group has portfolios in each of the three business
retained profits or losses and other comprehensive income
models under IFRS 9: to collect the contractual cash flows
together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. The Group
where there is no factoring agreement in place (measured at
recognises its rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
amortised cost), to sell the contractual cash flows where the
of joint operations.
trade receivables will be sold under a factoring agreement
Inventories (measured at FVTPL), and both to collect and to sell the
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower contractual cash flows where the trade receivables may be sold
of cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs under a factoring arrangement (measured at FVTOCI). Trade
and related production overheads) and net realisable value. receivables measured at amortised cost are carried at the
Cost is generally determined on a first in, first out basis. original invoice amount less allowances for expected credit
Pre-launch inventory is held as an asset when there is a high losses.
probability of regulatory approval for the product. Before that Expected credit losses are calculated in accordance with the
point a provision is made against the carrying value to its simplified approach permitted by IFRS 9, using a provision matrix
recoverable amount; the provision is then reversed at the point applying lifetime historical credit loss experience to the trade
when a high probability of regulatory approval is determined. receivables. The expected credit loss rate varies depending
on whether, and the extent to which, settlement of the trade
Financial instruments
receivables is overdue and it is also adjusted as appropriate to
Financial assets reflect current economic conditions and estimates of future
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value conditions. For the purpose of determining credit loss rates,
through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) or fair value customers are classified into groupings that have similar loss
through profit or loss (FVTPL). The measurement basis is patterns. The key drivers of the loss rate are the nature of the
determined by reference to both the business model for business unit and the location and type of customer.
managing the financial asset and the contractual cash flow
When a trade receivable is determined to have no reasonable
characteristics of the financial asset. For financial assets
expectation of recovery it is written off, firstly against any
other than trade receivables a 12-month expected credit loss
expected credit loss allowance available and then to the
(ECL) allowance is recorded on initial recognition. If there is
income statement.
subsequent evidence of a significant increase in the credit risk
of an asset, the allowance is increased to reflect the full lifetime Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or
ECL. If there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the asset is written off are credited to the income statement. Long-term
written off. receivables are discounted where the effect is material.
176 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 177
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Cash and cash equivalents Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
Cash held in deposit accounts is measured at amortised cost. hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
Investments in money market funds are held at fair value through changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
profit or loss because the funds fail the solely payments of
Taxation
principal and interest (SPPI) test.
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid,
Borrowings applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds enacted by the balance sheet date.
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the amount due on
amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are
redemption being recognised as a charge to the income
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
statement over the period of the relevant borrowing.
profits will be available against which the temporary differences
Derivative financial instruments can be utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates
to market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the
GSK are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that
exchange forward contracts and options. The Group does not the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or future. Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been
speculative purposes. enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives Where an uncertain tax position is identified, management will
embedded in host contracts which have been separated from make a judgement as to what the probable outcome will be,
the host contract, are classified as held-for-trading and are assuming the relevant tax authority has full knowledge of the
measured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of any derivative situation. Where it is assessed that an economic outflow is
instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are probable to arise, a provision is made for the best estimate of
recognised immediately in the income statement. the liability. In estimating any such liability GSK applies a
risk-based approach which takes into account, as appropriate,
Hedge accounting the probability that the Group would be able to obtain
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are classified compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
at inception of hedge relationship as cash flow hedges, net These estimates take into account the specific circumstances
investment hedges or fair value hedges. of each dispute and relevant external advice.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
Discounting
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the
Where the time value of money is material, balances are
extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are
discounted to current values using appropriate discount rates.
recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in
The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income
other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income
and finance expense.
statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to
cash flow hedges.
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In preparing the financial statements, management is required Estimates
to make judgements about when or how items should be Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances
recognised in the financial statements and estimates and and product returns given or expected to be given, which
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, vary by product arrangements and buying groups. These
revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements. arrangements with purchasing organisations are dependent
Actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates. upon the submission of claims some time after the initial
The following are considered to be the critical accounting recognition of the sale. Accruals are made at the time of sale
judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty. for the estimated rebates, discounts or allowances payable or
returns to be made, based on available market information and
Turnover
historical experience.
Reported Group turnover for 2021 was £34,114 million
(2020 – £34,099 million).Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
The US Pharmaceuticals business has the largest and most Estimates
complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances. The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue
The US Pharmaceuticals turnover for 2021 of £8,442 million authorities. Management makes a judgement of whether there is
(2020 – £7,451 million) was after recording deductions of sufficient information to be able to make a reliable estimate of
£11,486 million (2020 – £12,584 million) for rebates, discounts, the outcome of the dispute. If insufficient information is available,
allowances and returns. The balance sheet accruals for rebates, no provision is made.
discounts, allowances and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals
If sufficient information is available, in estimating a potential tax
and Vaccines businesses are managed on a combined basis.
liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into
At 31 December 2021, the total accrual amounted to
account, as appropriate, the probability that the Group would
£5,044 million (2020 – £4,686 million). Because of the nature
be able to obtain compensatory adjustments under international
of these accruals it is not practicable to give meaningful
tax treaties. These estimates take into account the specific
sensitivity estimates due to the large volume of variables that
circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice,
contribute to the overall rebates, chargebacks, returns and
are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over
other revenue accruals.
time as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge.
As there can be significant variability in final outcomes, the
At 31 December 2021, the Group had recognised provisions
group applies a constraint when measuring the variable element
of £858 million in respect of uncertain tax positions (2020 –
within revenue, so that revenue is recognised at a suitably
£856 million). Due to the number of uncertain tax positions held
cautious amount. The objective of the constraint is to ensure
and the number of jurisdictions to which these relate, it is not
that it is highly probable that a significant reversal of revenue will
practicable to give meaningful sensitivity estimates. No
not occur when the uncertainties are resolved. The constraint is
uncertain tax position is individually significant to the Group.
applied by making suitably cautious estimates of the inputs and
assumptions used in estimating the variable consideration. Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out in
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect Note 14, ‘Taxation’. GSK continues to believe that it has made
the final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open
dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying assessments. Where open issues exist, the ultimate liability
group and product sales mix. The constraints applied in for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
recognising revenue mean that the risk of a material downward dependent upon the outcome of negotiations with the relevant
adjustment to revenue in the next financial year is low. tax authorities or, if necessary, litigation proceedings.
The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and Legal and other disputes
adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and legal Legal costs for the year were £52 million (2020 – £231 million).
obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected At 31 December 2021 provisions for legal and other disputes
market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using amounted to £196 million (2020 – £320 million).
wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research data
and internally-generated information. It is reasonably possible Estimates
that there could be a significant adjustment within the next 12 Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient
months to recognise additional revenue, if actual outcomes are information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the likely
better than the cautious constrained estimates. Revenue is not outcome of the dispute and the legal and other expenses arising
recognised in full until it is highly probable that a significant from claims against the Group. If insufficient information is
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will available, no provision is made and disclosure of the claim is
not occur. The amount of turnover recognised in the year from given.
performance obligations satisfied in previous periods is set out The estimated provisions take into account the specific
in Note 6, ‘Turnover and segment information’, and is an circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are
indication of the level of sensitivity in the estimate. inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge. Details of
accruals are based to change, which could materially affect the status and various uncertainties involved in the significant
the future results of the Group. unresolved disputes are set out in Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
Taxation
established provisions after taking into account the relevant
The tax charge for the year was £346 million (2020 –
facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
£580 million). At December 2021, current tax payable was
accounting requirements. In respect of product liability claims
£489 million (2020 – £545 million), non-current corporation
related to certain products, there is sufficient history of claims
tax payable was £180 million (2020 – £176 million) and current
made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable
tax recoverable was £486 million (2020 – £671 million).
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
178 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 179
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect Pensions and other post-employment benefits
of which it is not possible to meaningfully assess whether the
Judgement
outcome will result in a probable outflow, or to quantify or reliably
Where a surplus on a defined benefit scheme arises, or there
estimate the liability. In these cases, appropriate disclosure about
is potential for a surplus to arise from committed future
such cases would be provided, but no provision would be made
contributions, the rights of the Trustees to prevent the Group
and no contingent liability can be quantified.
obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future are considered in
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts determining whether it is necessary to restrict the amount of the
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation surplus that is recognised. Three UK schemes are in surplus, with
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. a combined surplus of £606 million at 31 December 2021 (2020
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be – £77 million). There are further recognised pension surpluses
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any totalling £135 million spread across 6 countries (2020 – £106
legal proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions million across 6 countries). GSK has made the judgement that
reported in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount. these amounts meet the requirements of recoverability.
Contingent consideration Estimates
The 2021 income statement charge for contingent The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment
consideration was £1,063 million (2020 – £1,275 million). benefits are assessed on the basis of assumptions selected by
management. These assumptions include future earnings and At 31 December 2021, the liability for contingent consideration
pension increases, discount rates, expected long-term rates of
amounted to £6,076 million (2020 – £5,869 million). Of this
return on assets and mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note
amount, £5,559 million (2020 – £5,359 million) related to the
30, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture
in 2012. Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
Estimates
bonds where government bond yields are used. A sensitivity
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration
analysis is provided in Note 30, ‘Pensions and other post-
payable for a business combination is recorded at fair value at
employment benefits’, a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate
the date of acquisition. These fair values are generally based on
would lead to an increase in the net pension deficit of
risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
approximately £772 million and an increase in the annual pension
post-tax discount rates. The fair values are reviewed on a
cost of approximately £17 million. Similarly, a 0.25% increase in
regular basis, at least annually, and any changes are reflected in
the discount rate would lead to a decrease in the net pension
the income statement. See Note 32, ‘Contingent consideration
deficit of approximately £729 million and a decrease in the annual
liabilities’.
pension cost of approximately £19 million. The selection of
different assumptions could affect the future results of the Group.
4. New accounting requirements
The Group previously accounted for SaaS (software as a During the year, the Group implemented ‘Interest Rate
service) configuration and customisation costs as intangible Benchmark Reform Phase 2 - Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39,
assets. Following the IFRS IC (Interpretation Committee) IFRS 7, IFRS 4 and IFRS 16’ which was issued in August 2020
agenda decision on SaaS in April 2021, the Group has adopted and adopted by the UK Endorsement Board on 5 January 2021.
the treatment set out in the IFRS IC agenda decision and The amendments address issues that arise from implementation
expensed configuration and customisation costs where the of the reforms, including the replacement of one benchmark
entity does not control the software being configured. The with an alternative one. A practical expedient is provided such
impacts of the change were an impairment of £68 million from that the change to contractual cash flows for financial assets
previously capitalised intangible assets and an increase in 2021 and liabilities (including lease liabilities) is accounted for
expenses of £40 million presented in Selling, general and prospectively by revising the effective interest rate. In addition,
administration and Research and development. hedge accounting will not be discontinued solely because of
the IBOR reform. Further information is provided in Note 43.
Where the retirement benefit to which an employee is entitled is
capped at a specified number of consecutive years, the Group Certain new accounting standards, amendments to accounting
previously accounted for these employee benefits from the standards and interpretations have been published that are not
employment commencement date. Following the IFRS IC mandatory for 31 December 2021 reporting periods and have
agenda decision on Attributing Benefit to Periods of Service in not been early adopted by the group. These standards,
May 2021, the Group has adopted the treatment set out in the amendments or interpretations are not expected to have a
IFRS IC agenda decision to account for the employee benefits material impact on the Group in the current or future reporting
during the last specified number of years where the employee periods.
earn the benefit. The impact of the change was a reduction of
expenses of £42 million presented in Cost of sales, Selling,
general and administration and Research and development.Notes to the financial statements continued
5. Exchange rates
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those entities. The
currencies which most influence these translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
Average rates: Period end rates:
US$/£ 1.38 1.29 1.28 US$/£ 1.35 1.36 1.32
Euro/£ 1.16 1.13 1.14 Euro/£ 1.19 1.11 1.18
Yen/£ 151 137 139 Yen/£ 155 141 143
6. Turnover and segment information
Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities
of the GSK Leadership Team (GLT). GSK reports results under four segments: Pharmaceuticals; Pharmaceuticals R&D; Vaccines
and Consumer Healthcare, and individual members of the GLT are responsible for each segment.
The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is
recorded, and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
Corporate and other unallocated turnover and costs includes the results of certain Consumer Healthcare products which are being
held for sale in a number of markets in order to meet anti-trust approval requirements, together with the costs of corporate functions.
Revenue recognised in the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods totalled £1,558 million (2020 – £1,207
million) and included £1,069 million (2020 – £649 million) impacting turnover arising from changes to prior year estimates of RAR
(returns and rebates) accruals, £61 million (2020 – £238 million) of milestone income and £428 million (2020 – £320 million) of
royalty income recognised in the current year.
2021 2020 2019
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,729 17,056 17,554
Vaccines 6,778 6,982 7,157
Consumer Healthcare 9,607 10,033 8,995
Segment turnover 34,114 34,071 33,706
Corporate and other unallocated turnover – 28 48
34,114 34,099 33,754
GSK has reviewed the presentation of its pharmaceuticals products and from 1 January 2021 has moved sales of Arnuity Ellipta,
Incruse Ellipta and Relvar/Breo Ellipta from the Respiratory therapeutic area to the Established Pharmaceuticals therapeutic area.
Comparative information has been revised on to a consistent basis.
2020 2019
2021 (revised) (revised)
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 2,863 2,360 1,800
HIV 4,777 4,876 4,854
Immuno-inflammation 885 727 613
Oncology 489 372 230
Pandemic 958 – –
New and Specialty 9,972 8,335 7,497
Established Pharmaceuticals 7,757 8,721 10,057
17,729 17,056 17,554
2021 2020 2019
Vaccines turnover by category £m £m £m
Meningitis 961 1,029 1,018
Influenza 679 733 541
Shingles 1,721 1,989 1,810
Established Vaccines 2,970 3,231 3,788
6,331 6,982 7,157
Pandemic Vaccines 447 – –
6,778 6,982 7,157
180 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 181
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
6. Turnover and segment information continued
During 2021, the US operations of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses made sales to three wholesalers of
£3,159 million (2020 – £2,928 million, 2019 – £2,835 million), £3,081 million (2020 – £3,085 million, 2019 – £3,146 million)
and £2,670 million (2020 – £2,795 million, 2019 – £2,820 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the
wholesalers.
2021 2020 2019
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category £m £m £m
Oral health 2,732 2,753 2,673
Pain relief 2,276 2,219 1,781
Vitamins, minerals and supplements 1,512 1,506 611
Respiratory health 1,133 1,209 1,186
Digestive health and other 1,803 1,824 1,646
9,456 9,511 7,897
Brands divested/under review 151 522 1,098
9,607 10,033 8,995
2021 2020 2019
Segment profit
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 8,170 7,723 7,964
Pharmaceuticals R&D (3,489) (3,538) (3,369)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 4,681 4,185 4,595
Vaccines 2,256 2,713 2,966
Consumer Healthcare 2,239 2,213 1,874
Segment profit 9,176 9,111 9,435
Corporate and other unallocated costs (370) (205) (463)
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (2,605) (1,123) (2,011)
Operating profit 6,201 7,783 6,961
Finance income 28 44 98
Finance costs (784) (892) (912)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates (36) – –
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 33 74
Profit before taxation 5,442 6,968 6,221
Taxation (346) (580) (953)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,096 6,388 5,268
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit.
These include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets; major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible
assets and computer software; transaction-related adjustments related to significant acquisitions; proceeds and costs of disposals
of associates, products and businesses, significant legal charges and expenses on the settlement of litigation and government
investigations, other operating income other than royalty income and other items, and separation costs. Please refer to the detail of
“Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit” in the analysis of adjusting items (Group financial review).
2021 2020 2019
Depreciation and amortisation by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 553 557 606
Pharmaceuticals R&D 325 298 230
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 878 855 836
Vaccines 416 404 418
Consumer Healthcare 226 235 224
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,520 1,494 1,478
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 54 82 79
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and
total depreciation and amortisation 802 775 777
Total depreciation and amortisation 2,376 2,351 2,334Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
2021 2020 2019
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 11 38 137
Pharmaceuticals R&D 54 37 16
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 65 75 153
Vaccines 20 49 33
Consumer Healthcare 12 5 –
Segment impairment 97 129 186
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 63 5 19
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 416 680 621
Total impairment 576 814 826
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment
Pharmaceuticals (5) (12) (6)
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2) (4) –
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D (7) (16) (6)
Vaccines (3) (2) (1)
Consumer Healthcare – – –
Segment impairment reversals (10) (18) (7)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals – (1) (3)
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals (38) (53) (15)
Total impairment reversals (48) (72) (25)
2021 2020
Net operating assets by segment £m £m
Pharmaceuticals (149) 789
Pharmaceuticals R&D 3,795 3,345
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 3,646 4,134
Vaccines 8,429 8,995
Consumer Healthcare 25,185 25,176
Segment net operating assets 37,260 38,305
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets 2,353 2,250
Net operating assets 39,613 40,555
Net debt (19,838) (20,780)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 88 364
Derivative financial instruments (22) (74)
Current and deferred taxation 1,479 637
Assets held for sale (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 22 106
Net assets 21,342 20,808
The Pharmaceuticals segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £5,559 million
(2020 – £5,359 million) and the Pfizer put option of £1,008 million (2020 – £960 million).
182 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 183
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
6. Turnover and segment information continued
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2021 2020 2019
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 975 980 942
US 15,093 14,556 13,890
Rest of World 18,046 18,563 18,922
External turnover 34,114 34,099 33,754
2020
2021 (revised)
Non-current assets by location of subsidiary £m £m
UK 6,618 6,279
US 17,852 17,899
Belgium 5,065 5,437
Switzerland 6,552 6,133
Rest of World 15,390 16,142
Non-current assets 51,477 51,890
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments,
pension assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables. There are no other
countries with individually material external revenue or non-current assets.
GSK has revised the presentation of its non-current assets by location to include Belgium and Switzerland independently from the
rest of the world.
7. Other operating income/(expense)
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Fair value remeasurements of equity investments 37 (6) (14)
Disposal of businesses and assets 591 2,779 541
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations (1,058) (1,286) (92)
Remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential dividends (48) 52 234
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments (4) 20 –
Other income 6 65 20
(476) 1,624 689
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2021 included a net gain on disposal of the rights to the royalty stream for cabozantinib and
a net gain on disposal of the cephalosporin antibiotic brands to Sandoz.
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2020 included a net profit on disposal of the Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
nutritional brands and two subsidiaries in India and Bangladesh of £2,815 million, which reflected reversal of £240 million of
embedded derivative gains on the value of the shares taken in prior years. This was partly offset by the related £476 million loss
on the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited, including fair value remeasurement losses between their acquisition as consideration
for the divestment of GSK Consumer Healthcare Limited in India and their subsequent disposal. Other operating income also
included an increase in profit and milestone income from a number of asset disposals.
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised as business combinations included £1,026 million related to
the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £27 million payable to Novartis related to the Vaccines
acquisition, together with fair value movements on related hedging contracts.Notes to the financial statements continued
8. Operating profit
2021 2020 2019
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 9,003 10,249 9,855
Advertising 1,806 1,777 1,567
Distribution costs 379 408 393
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 982 989 1,017
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 103 443 669
Depreciation of right of use assets 213 225 214
Impairment of right of use assets 7 3 2
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,181 1,137 1,103
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 416 257 126
Impairment of property, plant and equipment held for sale, net of reversals 1 3 –
Impairment of intangible assets held for sale, net of reversals 1 20 1
Impairment of goodwill allocated to a disposal group, net of reversals – 16 4
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (2) 110 (37)
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 9,192 9,480 9,482
Write-down of inventories 946 699 578
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (384) (274) (230)
Short-term lease charge 7 11 12
Low-value lease charge 3 5 4
Variable lease payments 10 11 13
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 31.7 29.9 30.4
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations
prior to inventory expiration.
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses include a net gain of £35 million (2020 – £36 million loss; 2019 – £75 million gain) arising
from the recycling of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries. The recycling of exchange on disposal of
overseas associates of a loss of £10 million (2020 – £nil) is reported through loss on disposal of interest in associates.
Included within operating profit are Major restructuring charges of £626 million (2020 – £1,532 million; 2019 – £1,105 million),
see Note 10, ‘Major restructuring costs’.
2021 2020 2019
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements including attestation under s.404
of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 13.2 13.8 15.6
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 14.5 14.5 13.5
Total audit services 27.7 28.3 29.1
Audit related and other assurance services 4.0 1.6 1.2
All other services – – 0.1
Total audit-related and non-audit services 4.0 1.6 1.3
31.7 29.9 30.4
The other assurance services provided by the auditor related to agreed upon procedures and other assurance services outside of
statutory audit requirements. In addition to the above, fees paid to the auditor in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Audit 0.2 0.2 0.2
Other services – – –
There was no material fee paid in 2021 to other auditors in respect of audits of certain of the company’s subsidiaries acquired
during the year (2020 – £0.2 million, 2019 – £0.8 million).
Audit fees include £0.9 million in relation to incremental audit work performed in 2021 for audit opinions issued compliant with
PCAOB auditing standards in preparation for the Consumer Healthcare demerger.
Audit related and other assurance services include £2.4 million due to reporting accountant work performed in preparation for the
Consumer Healthcare demerger.
184 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 185
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
9. Employee costs
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 6,941 7,802 7,583
Social security costs 856 917 852
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 30) 463 519 560
Cost of share-based incentive plans 404 393 432
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 339 618 428
9,003 10,249 9,855
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 303 313 302
Performance Share Plan 59 64 58
Share option plans 5 4 4
Cash settled and other plans 37 12 68
404 393 432
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2021 2020 2019
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 33,303 34,898 36,653
Selling, general and administration 46,782 49,162 48,535
Research and development 11,876 11,824 12,026
91,961 95,884 97,214
The average monthly number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the
end of each financial year are given in the financial record on page 265.
The compensation of the Directors and senior management (members of the GLT) in aggregate, was as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 29 23 28
Social security costs 3 4 4
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 30 25 27
65 55 62
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is given in the sections of the annual report on remuneration labelled as
audited within pages 120 to 152.Notes to the financial statements continued
10. Major restructuring costs
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated manufacturing operations and supply chains and long lifecycle of the
business mean that restructuring programmes, particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of manufacturing or R&D
sites, are likely to take several years to complete.
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-approved Major restructuring programmes, including integration costs
following material acquisitions, which are structural and are of a significant scale where the costs of individual or related projects
exceed £25 million.
The existing Combined restructuring and integration programme incorporates the previous Major Change programme, the
Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme and the restructuring and integration programme following the Novartis transaction in
2015. This programme is now substantially complete. In July 2018, the Board approved a Major restructuring programme, designed
to significantly improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the Group’s cost base with savings delivered primarily through supply
chain optimisation and reductions in administrative costs. This programme is now substantially complete. In February 2019, the
Board approved a Major restructuring plan to generate synergies from the integration of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business
into GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business. In January 2020, the Board approved a two-year Separation Preparation programme
to prepare for the separation of GSK into two companies.
The total restructuring costs of £626 million in 2021 were incurred in the following areas:
– Restructuring costs to prepare for separation of GSK into two companies
– Restructuring following the integration of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business into GSK Consumer Healthcare
– Continued implementation of the restructuring programme that started in July 2018, to simplify the operating models and improve
resource allocation of the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare supply chains
– Continued transformation of central functions, including GSK technology platforms and interfaces, to deliver greater digital
synergies, simplification of applications and staff reductions.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes was as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for Major restructuring programmes (see Note 31) 383 746 345
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 31) (151) (96) (148)
Impairment losses recognised 27 361 521
Other non-cash charges 29 104 99
Other cash costs 338 417 288
626 1,532 1,105
Provision reversals of £151 million (2020 – £96 million, 2019 – £148 million) reflected provision releases mainly for the Separation
Preparation programme and 2018 Major restructuring programme. Asset impairments of £27 million and other non-cash charges of
£29 million principally comprised fixed asset write-downs of manufacturing facilities and accelerated depreciation where asset lives
have been shortened in the supply chain manufacturing network as a result of the Major restructuring programmes. All other
charges have been or will be settled in cash and include site closure costs, consultancy and project management costs.
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by programme was as follows:
2021
Cash Non-cash Total
£m £m £m
Separation Preparation programme 371 59 430
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme 173 11 184
2018 Major restructuring programme (including Tesaro) 18 9 27
Combined restructuring and integration programme 8 (23) (15)
570 56 626
2020
Cash Non-cash Total
£m £m £m
Separation Preparation programme 625 216 841
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme 298 28 326
2018 Major restructuring programme (including Tesaro) 105 210 315
Combined restructuring and integration programme 39 11 50
1,067 465 1,532
186 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 187
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
10. Major restructuring costs continued
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by income statement line was as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 154 667 658
Selling, general and administration 426 659 332
Research and development 46 206 114
Other operating expense – – 1
626 1,532 1,105
11. Finance income
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Finance income arising from:
Financial assets measured at amortised cost 26 29 69
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss – 10 10
Net gains arising from the forward element of forward contracts in net investment hedge relationships – 5 19
Other finance income 2 – –
28 44 98
12. Finance expense
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Finance expense arising on:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (744) (813) (832)
Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss – (7) (6)
Net losses arising from:
Financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (599) 353 (425)
Retranslation of loans 599 (357) 424
Reclassification of hedges from other comprehensive income (2) (2) (2)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (2) (3) (8)
Finance expense arising on lease liabilities (31) (40) (39)
Other finance expense (5) (23) (24)
(784) (892) (912)
Finance expense arising on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense.Notes to the financial statements continued
13. Associates and joint ventures
The Group’s share of after-tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Share of after-tax profits of associates 36 33 85
Share of after-tax losses of joint ventures (3) – (11)
33 33 74
Following the disposal of Innoviva, Inc in May 2021 (see details in Note 21), at 31 December 2021, the Group held no significant
individual associates. At 31 December 2020, the Group held one significant associate, Innoviva, Inc.
Summarised income statement information in respect of Innoviva until May 2021 is set out below. The Group’s 2021 share of
after-tax profits of associates and other comprehensive income includes a profit of £33 million and other comprehensive income of
£nil in respect of Innoviva.
The results of Innoviva included in the summarised income statement information below represent the estimated earnings of
Innoviva in the relevant periods, based on publicly available information at the balance sheet date. 2021 figures include share of
Innoviva’s turnover, profit and total comprehensive income until the date of the disposal.
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Turnover 108 253 193
Profit after taxation 106 174 116
Total comprehensive income 106 174 116
Aggregated financial information in respect of GSK’s share of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Share of turnover – – 32
Share of after-tax losses – (8) (5)
Share of other comprehensive income 28 53 1
Share of total comprehensive income/(expense) 28 45 (5)
The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £nil in 2021 (2020 – £nil; 2019 – £11 million).
Please refer to the Balance sheet information on associates and joint ventures in Note 21.
188 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 189
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
14. Taxation
The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax expense.
2021 2020 2019
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK current year charge 132 30 149
Rest of World current year charge 1,044 1,177 1,407
Charge/(credit) in respect of prior periods 172 66 (420)
Current taxation 1,348 1,273 1,136
Deferred taxation (1,002) (693) (183)
346 580 953
In 2021, GSK made payments of £114 million in UK corporation tax to HMRC. These amounts are for UK corporation tax only, and
do not include the various other business taxes borne in the UK by GSK each year.
The deferred tax credits in each period reflect the origination of current year expenses where offset against taxable profits in future
periods is probable. This relates primarily to the unwind of deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets, the recognition of current
year tax losses and the reversal of other temporary differences. The deferred tax credit in 2021 also reflected the impact of the
revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities following enactment of the increase in the headline rate of UK corporation tax from
19% to 25%.
Significant prior year credits in 2019 reflected the impact of the settlement of a number of open issues with tax authorities.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax
charge for the year.
2021 2021 2020 2020 2019 2019
Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits £m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 5,442 6,968 6,221
UK statutory rate of taxation 1,034 19.0 1,324 19.0 1,182 19.0
Differences in overseas taxation rates 419 7.7 552 7.9 667 10.7
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (400) (7.3) (586) (8.4) (691) (11.1)
R&D credits (102) (1.9) (105) (1.5) (119) (1.9)
Fair value remeasurement of non-taxable put options 15 0.3 (3) (0.0) (45) (0.7)
Tax losses where no benefit is recognised 5 0.1 18 0.3 15 0.2
Permanent differences on disposals, acquisitions and transfers (163) (3.0) (338) (4.9) 68 1.1
Other permanent differences 74 1.4 98 1.4 119 1.9
Reassessments of prior year estimates (172) (3.2) (228) (3.3) (364) (5.9)
Changes in tax rates (364) (6.7) (152) (2.2) 121 2.0
Tax charge/tax rate 346 6.4 580 8.3 953 15.3
As a global healthcare company, we have a substantial business and employment presence in many countries around the world.
The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates arose from profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than the UK
statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2021 were the US, Belgium, Germany, Italy and Japan. The adverse impact was
partly offset by the benefit of intellectual property incentives such as the UK Patent Box and Belgian Patent Income Deduction
regimes, which provide a reduced rate of corporation tax on profits earned from qualifying patents. We claim these incentives in the
manner intended by the relevant statutory or regulatory framework.
In 2021, ‘Changes in tax rates’ included credits in relation to the enactment of the increase in the headline rate of UK corporation
tax from 19% to 25% (effective 2023). In 2020, ‘Changes in tax rates’ included credits in relation to the UK, where a previously
proposed reduction in the corporation tax rate from 19% to 17% was cancelled, and India, where the tax treatment of dividends
changed with effect from 1 April 2020. The UK credit in 2020 partly reversed the expense in 2019 where a future benefit was
provided at the formerly enacted corporation tax rate of 17%.
Permanent differences on disposals, acquisitions and transfers in 2021 reflects tax credits arising on the transfer of intellectual
property within the Group and in 2020 reflected the tax impact of the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands
to, and subsequent disposal of shares received in, Hindustan Unilever.
The Group’s 2021 tax rate has also been influenced by the closure of open issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions. The
re-assessment of prior year estimates includes both current and deferred tax.
Future tax charges, and therefore our effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructurings,
the location of research and development activity, tax regime reforms and resolution of open matters as we continue to bring our tax
affairs up to date around the world.
Continued focus on tax reform is expected in 2022 and future years driven by the OECD’s project to address the tax challenges
arising from the digitalisation of the economy. This may result in significant changes to established tax principles and an increase in
tax authority disputes. In turn, this could adversely affect GSK’s effective tax rate or could result in higher cash tax liabilities.Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
2021 2020 2019
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments – (14) 1
Defined benefit plans – (18) 16
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 5 12 –
Fair value movements on equity investments 36 89 –
41 69 17
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments (11) 18 18
Defined benefit plans 223 (51) 173
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 3 6 16
Fair value movements on equity investments (167) 131 (95)
48 104 112
Total credit to equity and statement of comprehensive income 89 173 129
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share-based payments.
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at
a limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. In line with current OECD
guidelines, we base our transfer pricing policy on the arm’s length principle and support our transfer prices with economic analysis
and reports. However, different tax authorities may seek to attribute further profit to activities being undertaken in their jurisdiction
potentially resulting in double taxation. The Group also has open items in several jurisdictions concerning such matters as the
deductibility of particular expenses and the tax treatment of certain business transactions. GSK applies a risk based approach to
determine the transactions most likely to be subject to challenge and the probability that the Group would be able to obtain
compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of
certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or,
as appropriate, through a formal legal process. At 31 December 2021 the Group had recognised provisions of £858 million in
respect of such uncertain tax positions (2020 – £856 million) presented as current tax payables or as reductions in current tax
recoverable assets. The net increase in recognised provisions during 2021 was driven by the reassessment of estimates and the
utilisation of provisions for uncertain tax positions following the settlement of a number of open issues with tax authorities in various
jurisdictions. Whilst the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome
of agreements with the relevant tax authorities, or litigation where appropriate, the Group continues to consider that it has made
appropriate provision for periods which are open and not yet agreed by the tax authorities.
A provision for deferred tax liabilities of £204 million as at 31 December 2021 (2020 – £150 million) has been made in respect of
taxation that would be payable on the remittance of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. Whilst the aggregate amount of
unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £15 billion (2020 – £17 billion), the majority of these unremitted
profits would not be subject to tax (including withholding tax) on repatriation, as UK legislation relating to company distributions
provides for exemption from tax for most overseas profits, subject to certain exceptions. Deferred tax is not provided on temporary
differences of £831 million (2020 – £974 million) arising on unremitted profits as management has the ability to control any future
reversal and does not consider such a reversal to be probable.
190 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 191
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
14. Taxation continued
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated other post option net
capital Intangible Contingent Intra-Group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances assets consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2020 (242) (4,192) 757 1,120 864 942 81 956 286
Exchange adjustments (9) 41 – (29) 4 (2) (3) (57) (55)
Credit/(charge) to income statement (45) 194 86 (67) (44) 120 (5) 454 693
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income – – – – 50 – (13) (141) (104)
Acquisitions / Disposals – (25) – – – – – – (25)
R&D credits utilisation – – – – – – – (108) (108)
At 31 December 2020 (296) (3,982) 843 1,024 874 1,060 60 1,104 687
Exchange adjustments 17 (41) – 6 (17) (1) – – (36)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 65 312 7 (31) 6 391 20 232 1,002
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income – – – – (223) – 11 164 (48)
Acquisitions / Disposals 3 – – – – – – (4) (1)
R&D credits utilisation – – – – – – – 58 58
At 31 December 2021 (211) (3,711) 850 999 640 1,450 91 1,554 1,662
Deferred tax liabilities provided in relation to intangible assets predominately relate to temporary differences arising on assets and
liabilities acquired as part of historic business combinations.
The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets on future obligations in respect of contingent consideration amounts payable to
minority shareholders. These payments are tax deductible at the point in time at which payment is made.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on intra-Group profits arising on inter-company inventory which are eliminated within the
consolidated accounts. As intra-Group profits are not eliminated from the individual entities’ tax returns a temporary difference arises
that will reverse at the point in time inventory is sold externally.
The deferred tax asset recognised on tax losses of £1,450 million (2020 – £1,060 million) relates to trading losses. Such deferred tax
assets are only recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses, as supported by product
level forecasts. Other net temporary differences included accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
2021 2020
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 5,218 4,287
Deferred tax liabilities (3,556) (3,600)
1,662 687
2021 2020
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Tax losses asset Tax losses asset
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 1,068 198 962 181
More than 10 years 390 62 414 51
Available indefinitely 200 43 265 47
At 31 December 1,658 303 1,641 279
Capital losses expiring:
Available indefinitely 2,356 557 2,287 419
At 31 December 2,356 557 2,287 419
Deferred tax assets are only recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.Notes to the financial statements continued
15. Earnings per share
2021 2020 2019
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 87.6 115.5 93.9
Diluted earnings per share 86.6 114.1 92.6
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of
shares in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived
their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation
to assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes
where its exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions
attaching to the scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2021 2020 2019
Weighted average number of shares in issue
millions millions millions
Basic 5,003 4,976 4,947
Dilution for share options and awards 62 62 69
Diluted 5,065 5,038 5,016
16. Dividends
2021 2020 2019
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m
First interim 8 July 2021 19 951 9 July 2020 19 946 11 July 2019 19 940
Second interim 7 October 2021 19 951 8 October 2020 19 946 10 October 2019 19 941
Third interim 13 January 2022 19 952 14 January 2021 19 946 9 January 2020 19 941
Fourth interim 7 April 2022 23 1,152 8 April 2021 23 1,151* 9 April 2020 23 1,144
Total 80 4,006 80 3,989 80 3,966
* The estimate for the fourth interim dividend for 2020 disclosed in the 2020 annual report and accounts was £1,146 million, £5 million less than the dividend that was ultimately paid.
Under IFRS, interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally
pays a dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2021 financial statements
recognise those dividends paid in 2021, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2020, and the first and second interim
dividends for 2021.
The amounts recognised in each year were as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,999 3,977 3,953
192 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 193
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
17. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2020 7,632 12,061 1,906 21,599
Exchange adjustments 106 121 10 237
Additions through business combinations – 5 – 5
Other additions 29 147 1,052 1,228
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 15 15
Disposals and write-offs (336) (875) (29) (1,240)
Reclassifications 189 840 (1,058) (29)
Transfer to assets held for sale (132) (194) (6) (332)
Cost at 31 December 2020 7,488 12,105 1,890 21,483
Exchange adjustments (214) (315) (47) (576)
Other additions 16 98 1,091 1,205
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 16 16
Disposals and write-offs (217) (940) (17) (1,174)
Reclassifications 202 906 (1,182) (74)
Transfer to assets held for sale (63) (38) (1) (102)
Cost at 31 December 2021 7,212 11,816 1,750 20,778
Depreciation at 1 January 2020 (3,216) (7,191) – (10,407)
Exchange adjustments (49) (77) – (126)
Charge for the year (271) (718) – (989)
Disposals and write-offs 154 716 – 870
Transfer to assets held for sale 72 130 – 202
Depreciation at 31 December 2020 (3,310) (7,140) – (10,450)
Exchange adjustments 100 191 – 291
Charge for the year (267) (715) – (982)
Disposals and write-offs 169 893 – 1,062
Transfer to assets held for sale 27 27 – 54
Depreciation at 31 December 2021 (3,281) (6,744) – (10,025)
Impairment at 1 January 2020 (379) (445) (20) (844)
Exchange adjustments (6) – 1 (5)
Disposals and write-offs 190 124 16 330
Impairment losses (147) (303) (27) (477)
Reversal of impairments 13 18 3 34
Transfer to assets held for sale 49 55 1 105
Impairment at 31 December 2020 (280) (551) (26) (857)
Exchange adjustments 7 10 3 20
Disposals and write-offs 30 76 13 119
Impairment losses (21) (54) (37) (112)
Reversal of impairments – 5 4 9
Impairment at 31 December 2021 (264) (514) (43) (821)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2020 (3,590) (7,691) (26) (11,307)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2021 (3,545) (7,258) (43) (10,846)
Net book value at 1 January 2020 4,037 4,425 1,886 10,348
Net book value at 31 December 2020 3,898 4,414 1,864 10,176
Net book value at 31 December 2021 3,667 4,558 1,707 9,932Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment continued
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3% (2020 – 3%). Disposals and write-offs in
the year included a number of assets with nil net book value that are no longer in use in the business.
The impairment losses principally arose from decisions to rationalise facilities and were calculated based on fair value less costs
of disposal. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable
market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations determine
the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a
discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 6.5%, adjusted where appropriate for specific
segment, country and currency risk.
Assets that continue to be used by the Group are generally assessed as part of their associated cash generating unit on a value
in use basis. For value in use calculations, the post-tax cash flows do not include the impact of future uncommitted restructuring
plans or improvements. Where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially
different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is
equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 8%.
The net impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales: £46 million (2020 – £398 million), R&D: £3 million
(2020 – £3 million) and SG&A: £54 million (2020 – £42 million), and included £20 million (2020 – £343 million) arising from
the Major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arose from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments were deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
During 2021, £74 million (2020 – £29 million) of computer software was reclassified from assets in construction to intangible
assets on becoming ready for use.
We have assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and concluded that
their impact does not cause material impairments.
18. Right of use assets
Land and Plant and
buildings equipment Vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Net book value at 1 January 2020 821 22 123 966
Exchange adjustments (11) 1 1 (9)
Additions 119 2 66 187
Depreciation (152) (5) (68) (225)
Disposals (73) (2) (9) (84)
Impairments (3) – – (3)
Reclassifications (2) – – (2)
Net book value at 31 December 2020 699 18 113 830
Exchange adjustments (9) (1) (5) (15)
Additions 152 1 62 215
Depreciation (149) (5) (59) (213)
Disposals (53) (4) (13) (70)
Impairments (7) – – (7)
Net book value at 31 December 2021 633 9 98 740
The total cash outflow for leases amounted to £215 million. The Group has entered into lease contracts that have not yet
commenced. The nominal value of estimated future lease payments under these lease contracts approximates £60 million as of
31 December 2021. These contracts mainly concern the relocation of the US Corporate headquarters, with a lease period
between 2022 and 2029.
An analysis of lease liabilities is set out in Note 29, ‘Net debt’.
194 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 195
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
19. Goodwill
2021 2020
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 10,597 10,562
Exchange adjustments (55) (54)
Additions through business combinations (Note 40) – 124
Other movements 10 –
Transfer to assets held for sale – (35)
Cost at 31 December 10,552 10,597
Net book value at 1 January 10,597 10,562
Net book value at 31 December 10,552 10,597
The £10 million increase in goodwill corresponds to an immaterial payment of pension liabilities to the Consumer Healthcare
sub-group as required in the sale and purchase agreement and the increase in the non-controlling interest in the sub-group as
result of the transaction.
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s segments as follows:
2021 2020
£m £m
Pharmaceuticals 4,228 4,245
Vaccines 1,264 1,295
Consumer Healthcare 5,060 5,057
Net book value at 31 December 10,552 10,597
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less
costs of disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected
risk-adjusted post-tax cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 6.5% (2020 – 7%), as most cash generating units have integrated
operations across large parts of the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific segment, country and
currency risks. The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this
valuation technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs of disposal
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each jurisdiction.
Period of specific projected cash flows Five years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
Pharmaceuticals 0% p.a. (2020 – 1% p.a) 7% (2020 – 7.5% p.a)
Vaccines 0% p.a. (2020 – 1% p.a) 7% (2020 – 7.5% p.a)
Consumer Healthcare 2.5% p.a. (2020 – 2% p.a) 6% (2020 – 6% p.a)
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets, reflect the impact of future
generic competition and take account of new product launches. Goodwill is monitored for impairment at the segmental level. In
each case the valuations indicated sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to
result in an impairment of the related goodwill. The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also comprises a collection of
smaller cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £18.4 billion (2020 – £18.4 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 20, ‘Other intangible assets’.
We have assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and concluded that
their impact does not cause material impairments.Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets
Licences,
patents,
Computer amortised Indefinite life
software brands etc. brands Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2020 2,397 19,716 19,894 42,007
Exchange adjustments (1) (7) (74) (82)
Capitalised development costs – 313 – 313
Additions through business combinations 2 – – 2
Other additions 240 494 – 734
Disposals and asset write-offs (260) (20) – (280)
Transfer to assets held for sale (4) (246) (635) (885)
Reclassifications 29 572 (572) 29
Cost at 31 December 2020 2,403 20,822 18,613 41,838
Exchange adjustments (15) (207) 65 (157)
Capitalised development costs – 346 – 346
Other additions 184 1,410 – 1,594
Disposals and asset write-offs (221) (935) – (1,156)
Transfer to assets held for sale (1) (6) (43) (50)
Reclassifications 74 9 (9) 74
Cost at 31 December 2021 2,424 21,439 18,626 42,489
Amortisation at 1 January 2020 (1,302) (7,114) – (8,416)
Exchange adjustments (3) 28 – 25
Charge for the year (241) (896) – (1,137)
Disposals and asset write-offs 221 8 – 229
Transfer to assets held for sale 3 42 – 45
Amortisation at 31 December 2020 (1,322) (7,932) – (9,254)
Exchange adjustments 13 52 – 65
Charge for the year (225) (956) – (1,181)
Disposals and asset write-offs 165 572 – 737
Transfer to assets held for sale – 2 – 2
Amortisation at 31 December 2021 (1,369) (8,262) – (9,631)
Impairment at 1 January 2020 (37) (2,325) (274) (2,636)
Exchange adjustments – 39 1 40
Impairment losses (29) (255) (11) (295)
Reversal of impairments – 38 – 38
Disposals and asset write-offs 38 – – 38
Transfer to assets held for sale – 55 – 55
Reclassification – (39) 39 –
Impairment at 31 December 2020 (28) (2,487) (245) (2,760)
Exchange adjustments – 5 – 5
Impairment losses (93) (362) – (455)
Reversal of impairments – 2 37 39
Disposals and asset write-offs 30 362 – 392
Impairment at 31 December 2021 (91) (2,480) (208) (2,779)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2020 (1,350) (10,419) (245) (12,014)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2021 (1,460) (10,742) (208) (12,410)
Net book value at 1 January 2020 1,058 10,277 19,620 30,955
Net book value at 31 December 2020 1,053 10,403 18,368 29,824
Net book value at 31 December 2021 964 10,697 18,418 30,079
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3% (2020 – 3%).
The net book value of computer software included £526 million (2020 – £612 million) of internally generated costs.
The carrying value at 31 December 2021 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged in the year following those
impairments, was £694 million (2020 – £67 million). The carrying value at 31 December 2021 of intangible assets, for which
impairment reversals have been charged in the year following those impairment reversals, was £104 million (2020 – £205 million).
The patent expiry dates of the Group’s most significant assets, where relevant, are set out on pages 272 and 273. Please refer to
Note 2 to the Group’s accounting policy and estimate of the useful life for intangible assets over the exclusivity and non-exclusivity
periods.
196 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 197
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
20. Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2021 2020 2021 2020
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 807 779 (32) 21
Selling, general and administration 163 167 65 17
Research and development 212 191 382 219
1,182 1,137 415 257
Licences, patents, amortised brands etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and
marketing rights, which are either marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 40, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details
of additions through business combinations in the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2021 2020
£m £m
Tesaro Assets 2,677 2,669
Meningitis portfolio 1,889 2,114
Dolutegravir 1,093 1,177
Benlysta 644 745
Alector Assets 509 –
iTeos Assets 444 –
Lamisil 259 275
Merck Assets – 264
Vir Assets 212 49
BMS Assets 219 239
Fluarix/FluLaval 180 219
Okairos 191 205
CureVac Assets 164 108
Stiefel trade name 151 180
Others 2,065 2,159
10,697 10,403
On 2 July 2021 GSK signed an agreement for a global co-development and co-commercialisation collaboration in
immuno-neurology with Alector for two clinical stage first-in-class monoclonal antibodies for neurodegenerative diseases.
From the total upfront payment recognised as an intangible asset of £509 million, a total of £363 million was paid in 2021 and a
total of £146 million will be paid in 2022.
On 14 June 2021 GSK signed a co-development and co-commercialisation collaboration with iTeos Therapeutics for EOS-448,
an anti-TIGIT monoclonal antibody, recognising an intangible asset of £444 million.
Tesaro assets comprise Zejula and Jemperli, as well as combination therapies. The meningitis portfolio includes Menveo, Bexsero,
Men ABCWY and Menjugate. Lamisil has been moved into licences, patents, amortised brands etc. following the decision to start
amortisation during 2020. GSK divested the Breathe Right brand in 2020.
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling
Winthrop, Inc. in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001, the Novartis consumer healthcare business in 2015 and the Pfizer
consumer healthcare business in 2019. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2021 2020
£m £m
Advil 3,362 3,349
Voltaren 2,725 2,725
Centrum 1,828 1,824
Caltrate 1,731 1,678
Otrivin 1,385 1,385
Preparation H 1,152 1,139
Robitussin 1,126 1,111
Nexium 670 668
Fenistil 598 598
Chapstick 521 512
Emergen-C 439 433
Theraflu 436 433
Panadol 395 396
Sensodyne 270 270
Others 1,780 1,847
18,418 18,368Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Other intangible assets continued
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of
marketing support. The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their
size, diversification and market shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands
is considered to be relatively low. The Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or
other factors which could limit their useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment and other amortised intangible assets are tested when indicators of impairment arise.
This testing applies a fair value less costs of disposal methodology, generally using 10-year post-tax cash flow forecasts with a
terminal value calculation and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 6.5% (2020 – 7%), adjusted where
appropriate for specific segment, country and currency risks. This valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not
based on observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The main
assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product contribution, the future expenditure required to maintain the
product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions and exchange rates. These assumptions are based on past
experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in market conditions
and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between -3% and 3% are management’s estimates
of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets.
During the year ended 31 December 2021, Robitussin and Preparation H were affected by lower cold and flu incidence resulting
from the COVID-19 social distancing measures and by supply chain issues respectively which has resulted in a reduced level of
headroom. The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis based on changes in key assumptions considered to be reasonably
possible by management leaving all other assumptions unchanged. Sensitivity analysis for the year ended 31 December 2021 has
identified these two brands as being sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions. In order for the recoverable
amount to be equal to the carrying values of Robitussin and Preparation H, either the discount rate would have to be increased by
0.5% and 0.1%, or the operating margin decreased by 4.1% and 1.5%, or the long term growth rate decreased by 0.7% and 0.2%
respectively. The group consider that changes in key assumptions of this magnitude are reasonably possible in the current
environment.
Other than as described above, the group do not consider that any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions would
cause the fair value less cost of sale of the brands disclosed in page 197 above to fall below their carrying values.
We have assessed the qualitative and quantitative impact of climate related risks on asset recoverable amounts and concluded that
their impact does not cause material impairments.
21. Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2021 Joint 2020
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 15 349 364 15 299 314
Exchange adjustments – (15) (15) – (9) (9)
Additions – 1 1 – 4 4
Disposals – (278) (278) – – –
Distributions received – (9) (9) – (31) (31)
Net fair value movements through Other comprehensive income – 28 28 – 53 53
Impairment of interest in associates – (36) (36) – – –
Profit/(loss) after tax recognised in the consolidated income statement (3) 36 33 – 33 33
At 31 December 12 76 88 15 349 364
The Group held one significant associate at 31 December 2020, Innoviva, Inc. At 31 December 2020, the Group owned 32 million
shares or 31.6% of Innoviva, which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ. Innoviva partnered with GSK in the
development of the long-acting beta agonist, vilanterol, and currently receives royalty income from sales of products that contain
this component, namely Relvar/Breo Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta. It also has a 15% economic interest in royalties paid by GSK on
sales of Trelegy Ellipta. The remaining 85% of the economic interest in these royalties is held by Theravance Biopharma Inc., in
which the Group holds an investment (see Note 22).
On 20 May 2021, the Group agreed with Innoviva Inc to sell all of its shares in Innoviva back to Innoviva for £277 million. Following
settlement of the transaction, GSK no longer held any Innoviva stock. A loss of £46 million (including £10 million of recycling of
exchange differences in Innoviva) is presented in “Loss on disposal of interest in associates” in the Consolidated income statement.
The transaction did not include any changes in Innoviva’s commercial interest in royalties paid by GSK. “Loss on disposal of interest
in associates” also includes a £10 million gain from a disposal of another immaterial associate. Please refer to the Income statement
information on associates and joint ventures in Note 13.
198 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 199
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
21. Investments in associates and joint ventures continued
Disposals include the book values of Innoviva at £277 million, and £1 million of another investment for which GSK received
non-cash consideration.
Summarised balance sheet information at 31 December 2020, in respect of Innoviva is set out below:
At 31 December
2020
£m
Non-current assets 482
Current assets 251
Current liabilities (4)
Non-current liabilities (283)
Net assets 446
The carrying value of the Group’s investment in Innoviva in 2020 is analysed as follows:
2020
£m
Interest in net assets of associate 141
Goodwill 85
Fair value and other adjustments 65
Carrying value at 31 December 291
The investment in Innoviva had a market value of £291 million at 31 December 2020.
22. Other investments
Investments Investments
designated as Investments designated as Investments
measured at measured at measured at measured at
FVTOCI FVTPL 2021 FVTOCI FVTPL 2020
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2,939 121 3,060 1,781 56 1,837
Additions 125 52 177 409 3,205 3,614
Net fair value movements through Other comprehensive income (897) – (897) 1,318 – 1,318
Net fair value movements through profit or loss – 37 37 – (438) (438)
Disposals and settlements (240) (11) (251) (569) (2,702) (3,271)
At 31 December 1,927 199 2,126 2,939 121 3,060
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet date. For
investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid price.
For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information, including the
current market value of similar instruments, recent financing rounds and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. Net
fair value movements include the impact of exchange (gains of £20 million through Other comprehensive income and £2 million
through profit or loss) (2020 – losses of £91 million and £nil respectively). Other investments include listed investments of
£1,736 million (2020 – £2,281 million).
GSK has elected to designate the majority of its equity investments as measured at fair value through Other comprehensive income
(FVTOCI). The most significant of these investments held at 31 December 2021 were in CureVac AG in which the Group held 8%
and Vir Biotechnology in which the Group held 6.5%. These investments had a fair value at 31 December 2021 of £380 million
(2020 - £887 million) and £266 million (2020 – £130 million) respectively. The other investments include equity stakes in
companies with which GSK has research collaborations and in companies which provide access to biotechnology developments
of potential interest. In June 2020, GSK issued US$ US notes which are exchangeable at the option of the note holders at any time
until maturity of the notes in June 2023 for shares held by GSK in Theravance Biopharma, Inc. If the notes are exchanged, GSK
expects to deliver the shares but may, at its option under certain circumstances, deliver cash or a combination of Theravance
Biopharma shares and cash. The Theravance Biopharma shares are measured at FVTOCI and had a fair value at 31 December
2021 of £79 million (2020 – £126 million).
On disposal of equity investments measured at FVTOCI, the accumulated fair value movements are reclassified from the fair value
reserve to retained earnings. Investments with a fair value of £240 million (2020 – £569 million) were disposed of during the year.
The cumulative gain on these investments after tax was £132 million (2020 – £163 million).
Certain other investments, such as investments in funds with limited lives and investments acquired with an intention to sell, are
measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). Additions and disposals of investments measured at FVTPL in 2020 included
the acquisition of shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited on the merger of GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity with
Hindustan Unilever and the subsequent divestment of those shares.Notes to the financial statements continued
23. Other non-current assets
2021 2020
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 849 756
Pension schemes in surplus 741 183
Other receivables 86 102
1,676 1,041
Amounts receivable under insurance contacts are held at cash surrender value with movements through profit or loss.
Within the other receivables of £86 million (2020 – £102 million), £44 million (2020 – £67 million) is classified as financial assets
of which £23 million (2020 – £30 million) is classified as fair value through profit or loss. On the remaining balance of £21 million
(2020 – £37 million), the expected credit loss allowance was immaterial at 31 December 2021 and 2020.
24. Inventories
2021 2020
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,772 1,170
Work in progress 1,889 2,395
Finished goods 2,122 2,431
5,783 5,996
25. Trade and other receivables
2021 2020
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 6,246 5,549
Accrued income 12 13
Prepayments 315 359
Interest receivable 3 3
Employee loans and advances 18 11
Other receivables 1,266 1,017
7,860 6,952
Trade receivables included £nil (2020 – £nil) due from associates and joint ventures. Other receivables included £nil (2020 – £nil)
due from associates and joint ventures.
2021 2020
Loss allowance - trade receivables
£m £m
At 1 January 151 130
Exchange adjustments (3) (4)
Charge for the year 52 41
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (39) (8)
Utilised (11) (8)
At 31 December 150 151
Of the total trade receivables balance, £86 million (2020 – £50 million) was considered credit impaired, against which a
£4 million (2020 – £20 million) expected credit loss allowance has been applied. No amount was purchased or originated
credit impaired.
Within the other receivables of £1,266 million (2020 – £1,017 million), £553 million (2020 – £402 million) was classified as
financial assets of which £nil (2020 – £nil) was classified as fair value through profit and loss. On the remaining balance of
£553 million (2020 – £402 million), an expected credit loss allowance of £5 million (2020 – £6 million) was recognised at
31 December 2021 with no charge reported in profit or loss during the year.
For more discussion on credit risk practices, please refer to Note 43.
200 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 201
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
26. Cash and cash equivalents
2021 2020
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,427 1,762
Short-term deposits 2,847 4,530
4,274 6,292
Cash and cash equivalents included £0.2 billion (2020 – £0.2 billion) not available for general use due to restrictions applying
in the subsidiaries where it is held. Restrictions include exchange controls and taxes on repatriation.
27. Assets held for sale
2021 2020
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 22 25
Other intangibles – 62
Inventory – 19
22 106
Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to Assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts
will be recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell.
There is no inventory written down to fair value less costs to sell included in Assets held for sale (2020 - £19 million). The valuation
methodology used significant inputs which were not based on observable market data and therefore this valuation is classified as
level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Intangible assets of £48 million were transferred from Other intangibles during the year (2020 - £785 million). There were no
intangible assets held for sale after impairments, exchange movements and assets divested during the year remaining at 31
December 2021 (2020 - £62 million).Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Trade and other payables
2021 2020
£m £m
Trade payables 4,535 4,357
Wages and salaries 1,470 1,367
Social security 152 159
ViiV Healthcare put option 1,008 960
Other payables 518 409
Deferred income 307 361
Customer return and rebate accruals 6,322 5,775
Other accruals 3,242 2,452
17,554 15,840
Trade and other payables included £nil (2020 – £65 million) due to associates and joint ventures. The Group provides limited
supplier financing arrangements to certain customers. The amounts involved at 31 December 2021 were not material.
Revenue recognised in the year that was included in deferred income at 1 January 2021 was £29 million (2020 – £33 million).
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates,
discounts or allowances payable to customers, and included £5,044 million (2020 – £4,686 million) in respect of US
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, as more fully described in the Group financial review on page 80. Accruals are made at the time of
sale but the actual amounts paid are based on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are
estimated, they may not fully reflect the final outcome and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types
of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in light of historical experience of
actual amounts paid and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are
based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Pfizer’s put option over its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare is currently exercisable. Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare
at any time and if either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed within nine months, Pfizer could
require GSK to acquire its shareholding. The amount of the liability for this put option, which is held on the gross redemption
basis, is derived from an internal valuation of the ViiV Healthcare business, utilising both discounted forecast future cash flow
and multiples-based methodologies.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity of the Pfizer put option to
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
2021 2020
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts* 89 117
10% decrease in sales forecasts* (89) (116)
1% (100 basis points) increase in discount rate (30) (41)
1% (100 basis points) decrease in discount rate 34 45
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 55 52
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (47) (45)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 26 42
10 cent depreciation of Euro (22) (34)
* The sales forecast is for ViiV Healthcare sales only in respect of the ViiV Healthcare put option.
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 57.
202 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 203
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
29. Net debt
2021 2020
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 61 78
Cash and cash equivalents 4,274 6,292
4,335 6,370
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper (252) (17)
Bank loans, overdrafts and other (550) (1,128)
LIBOR +0.35% US$ US Medium Term Note 2021 New York Stock Exchange – (549)
EURIBOR +60% € Euro Medium Term Note 2021 London Stock Exchange – (1,351)
0.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2021 London Stock Exchange – (450)
2.850% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,483) –
2.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,113) –
Lease liabilities (203) (230)
(3,601) (3,725)
Long-term borrowings:
2.850% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange – (1,463)
2.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange – (1,097)
2.800% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (926) (913)
0.125% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange (629) (673)
Exchangeable US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (204) (199)
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (925) (912)
0.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2023 London Stock Exchange (420) (450)
0.534% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (926) (913)
3.000% US$ US Medium Term Note 2024 New York Stock Exchange (739) (728)
1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (836) (894)
4.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (627) (670)
3.625% US$ US Medium Term Note 2025 New York Stock Exchange (738) (728)
1.000% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (587) (628)
1.250% € Euro Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (838) (896)
3.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (595) (595)
3.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2028 New York Stock Exchange (1,294) (1,278)
1.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2028 London Stock Exchange (743) (742)
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2029 New York Stock Exchange (733) (723)
1.375% € Euro Medium Term Note 2029 London Stock Exchange (418) (447)
1.750% € Euro Medium Term Note 2030 London Stock Exchange (628) (672)
5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (984) (983)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (368) (363)
1.625% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2035 London Stock Exchange (744) (743)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (2,022) (1,996)
6.375% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (695) (695)
5.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (987) (987)
4.200% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (364) (359)
4.250% £ Euro Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (789) (789)
Other long-term borrowings (1) (2)
Lease liabilities (812) (887)
(20,572) (23,425)
Net debt (19,838) (20,780)Notes to the financial statements continued
29. Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as financial assets at amortised cost. At 31 December 2021, they included US Treasury Notes
and other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31 December 2021 was approximately 0.1%
(2020 – approximately 1.1%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2021 earning interest at floating rates amount to
£2 million (2020 – £78 million). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2021 earning interest at fixed rates amount to
£59 million (2020 – £nil).
Balances reported within cash and cash equivalents have an original maturity of three months or less. The effective interest
rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2021 was approximately 0.6% (2020 – approximately 0.3%). Cash and cash
equivalents at 31 December 2021 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amounted to £3,906 million and £39 million
respectively (2020 – £6,100 million and £9 million) and non-interest bearing holdings amounted to £329 million (2020 –
£183 million).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is set out in Note 43, ‘Financial instruments and
related disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a $10 billion (£7.4 billion) US commercial paper programme, of which $nil was in issue at 31 December 2021 (2020 –
$25 million (£17 million)). GSK has a £5 billion Euro commercial paper programme, of which €300 million (£252 million) was in
issue at 31 December 2021 (2020 – £nil). GSK has a £1.9 billion three-year committed facility and $2.5 billion (£1.9 billion) under
a 364 day committed facility. The three-year committed facility was agreed in September 2019 extended by one year in September
2020 and was extended again by one year to 2024 in August 2021. The 364-day committed facility was agreed in August 2021.
These facilities were undrawn at 31 December 2021.
In preparation for the separation of the Consumer Healthcare business, in February 2022 GSK cancelled and replaced the three
year and 364 day facilities. New revolving credit facilities of equivalent size were agreed with maturities in September 2025 and
September 2023.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31 December 2021 was -0.5% (2020 – 2.4%).
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2021 was 7.9% (2020 – 5.8%).
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of notes classified as short-term at 31 December 2021 was 3.0% (2020 – 0.0%).
The 0.0% rate in 2020 reflected the maturities of a LIBOR +0.35% coupon note in May 2021, and both a zero coupon and a
EURIBOR +0.60% note in September 2021.
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £20.6 billion (2020 – £23.4 billion), of which £11.7 billion (2020 – £13.3 billion)
fell due in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2021 was
approximately 3.3% (2020 – approximately 3.6%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 1.4% and 6.4%, with repayment dates
ranging from 2027 to 2045.
Pledged assets
The Group held pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $56 million (£42 million), (2020 – $50 million
(£37 million)) as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance
activity. Provisions in respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 31,
‘Other provisions’.
Lease liabilities
The maturity analysis of discounted lease liabilities recognised on the Group balance sheet is as follows:
2021 2020
£m £m
Rental payments due within one year 203 230
Rental payments due between one and two years 185 207
Rental payments due between two and three years 120 126
Rental payments due between three and four years 93 96
Rental payments due between four and five years 73 86
Rental payments due after five years 341 372
Total lease liabilities 1,015 1,117
204 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 205
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2021 2020 2019
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 198 255 181
US pension schemes 42 62 120
Other overseas pension schemes 164 189 185
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 67 13 74
471 519 560
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 245 341 300
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 21 32 41
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 67 13 74
Defined benefit schemes 333 386 415
Defined contribution pension schemes 138 133 145
471 519 560
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 129 143 149
Selling, general and administration 153 185 195
Research and development 51 59 71
333 387 415
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
These arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be
provided by state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds
arising from contributions paid in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based
on employee pensionable remuneration and length of service.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit credit method. In
certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal,
independent, actuarial valuations of the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Remeasurement movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are
derived from AA rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where
government bond yields are used. Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected
inflation rates and pension increases are long-term predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed
interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by adjusting the SAPS S3 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme
experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements in life expectancy in line with the CMI 2020 projections with a
long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per year for both males and females. In the US, mortality rates are calculated using the
PRI-2012 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience. These rates are projected using MP-2020 to allow for future
improvements in life expectancy.Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2041 for an individual then at
the age of 60 is as follows:
UK US
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.7 28.7 27.2 28.5
Projected for 2041 29.2 30.2 28.7 30.0
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a
general fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and
return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The physical asset allocation
strategy for three of the four UK plans is 42.5% in return-seeking assets and 57.5% in liability-matching assets. During 2019, a
buy-in insurance contract was purchased to cover substantially all of the obligations of the other UK plan. At 31 December 2021,
the value of the insurance contract was £570 million (2020 – £620 million). The asset allocation of the US plans is currently set at
25% return-seeking assets and 75% liability-matching assets.
The pension plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the plans’ assets might decline, the
investment returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return-seeking assets to generate future returns and liability-matching assets to better match future
pension obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the plans, with investments across a broad
range of assets. The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term
inflation, equities, property, currency and bank counterparty risk.
The plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis, these cash flows are sensitive to
changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-term
inflation corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the liabilities.
The interest rate risk and credit rate risk in the US are partially hedged. The targets are based on an accounting measure of the
plan liabilities.
For the UK plans, there is an interest rate and inflation hedging strategy in place. The targets are based on an economic measure of
the plan liabilities. Furthermore, the plans also currently hedge a portion of their equity exposure with a staggered maturity profile.
In the UK, the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former
SmithKline Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK
employees are entitled to join a defined contribution scheme. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement
healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the US.
Following a period of consultation with impacted employees, it was announced on 17 December 2020 that the UK defined benefit
plans would be closed to future accrual effective from 31 March 2022. As a result, post closure the accrued benefits of active
participants will be revalued in line with inflation (RPI for the legacy Glaxo Wellcome plans and CPI for the legacy SmithKline Beecham
plans subject to the relevant caps for each arrangement) rather than capped pay increases. In addition, all defined benefit plan
participants who are still active at 1 April 2022 will receive a defined pension contribution of £10,000 each. The effect of closure and
the defined contribution enhancement together resulted in a one-off cost of £74 million in 2020.
It was announced on 9 September 2020 that the US cash balance pension plans would be closed to future accrual from 1 January
2021. This change resulted in a credit of £56 million. On 1 June 2020 and 9 September 2020, two amendments were made to the
retiree healthcare plans in the US resulting in a credit of £55 million.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK US Rest of World
2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019 2021 2020 2019
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.00 2.00 2.00 n/a n/a 4.00 2.90 2.60 2.70
Discount rate 2.00 1.40 2.00 2.70 2.30 3.20 1.10 0.60 1.10
Expected pension increases 3.20 2.80 3.00 n/a n/a n/a 2.30 2.10 2.10
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 2.00 1.90 2.60 0.20 0.10 0.10
Inflation rate 3.20 2.80 3.00 2.25 2.00 2.25 1.90 1.30 1.40
Sensitivity analysis detailing the effect of changes in assumptions is provided on page 213. The analysis provided reflects the
assumption changes which have the most material impact on the results of the Group.
206 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 207
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December
2021 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2021 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 56 9 151 216 29
Past service cost 28 2 (25) 5 12
Net interest cost 3 19 6 28 26
Gains from settlements – – (10) (10) –
Expenses 15 12 – 27 –
102 42 122 266 67
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 572 97 194 863 78
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2020 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 61 83 147 291 36
Past service cost/(credit) 98 (56) 1 43 (55)
Net interest (income)/cost 3 23 10 36 39
Gains from settlements – – (18) (18) (7)
Expenses 9 12 – 21 –
171 62 140 373 13
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 51 (96) (60) (105) (82)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2019 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 62 74 130 266 22
Past service cost/(credit) 49 (3) (15) 31 –
Net interest (income)/cost (19) 29 16 26 52
Gains from settlements – – (9) (9) –
Expenses 7 20 – 27 –
99 120 122 341 74
Remeasurement losses recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (894) (1) (78) (973) (77)
The amounts included within past service costs in the UK included £27 million (2020 – £24 million; 2019 – £58 million) of
augmentation costs which arose from Major restructuring programmes, together with a charge of £nil (2020 –£74 million) in
relation to the impact of the closure of the defined benefit schemes to future accrual.
In 2020, the past service credit of £56 million in the US reflected the closure of the cash balance pension plans from 1 January
2021. Amendments to the retiree healthcare plan in the US in 2020 resulted in a credit of £55 million to past service costs in
post-retirement benefits in 2020.Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set
out in the table below:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 741 183 127
Recognised in Assets held for sale:
Post-retirement benefits – – (9)
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (1,870) (2,287) (2,048)
Post-retirement benefits (1,243) (1,363) (1,409)
(3,113) (3,650) (3,457)
In the event of a plan wind-up, GSK believes the UK pension scheme rules provide the company with the right to a refund of surplus
assets following the full settlement of plan liabilities. As a result, the net surplus in the UK defined benefit pension schemes is
recognised in full.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for
other defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 3,954 522 731 5,207
– unlisted – – 4 4
Multi-asset funds 1,415 – – 1,415
Property: – listed – – 68 68
– unlisted 502 154 1 657
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,503 975 140 2,618
– unlisted – – 15 15
Government bonds: – listed 5,054 724 984 6,762
Insurance contracts 1,334 – 917 2,251
Other (liabilities)/assets (130) 149 72 91
Fair value of assets 13,632 2,524 2,932 19,088
Asset ceiling restrictions – – (26) (26)
Present value of scheme obligations (13,299) (3,248) (3,644) (20,191)
Net surplus/(obligation) 333 (724) (738) (1,129)
Included in Other non-current assets 606 – 135 741
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (273) (724) (873) (1,870)
333 (724) (738) (1,129)
Actual return on plan assets 541 97 48 686
The multi-asset funds comprise investments in pooled investment vehicles that are invested across a range of asset classes,
increasing diversification within the growth portfolio. The value of funds in this asset class with a quoted market price is
£350 million (2020 – £847 million).
The ‘Other (liabilities)/assets’ category comprises cash and mark to market values of derivative positions.
Index-linked gilts held as part of a UK repo programme are included in government bonds. The related loan of £513 million
at 31 December 2021 (2020 – £650 million; 2019 – £243 million) is deducted within ‘Other assets’.
208 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 209
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 2,686 539 686 3,911
– unlisted – – 5 5
Multi-asset funds 2,075 – – 2,075
Property: – listed – – 57 57
– unlisted 447 136 2 585
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,113 1,066 154 2,333
– unlisted – – 20 20
Government bonds: – listed 6,055 758 999 7,812
Insurance contracts 1,409 – 988 2,397
Other (liabilities)/assets (203) 136 78 11
Fair value of assets 13,582 2,635 2,989 19,206
Present value of scheme obligations (13,858) (3,445) (4,007) (21,310)
Net surplus/(obligation) (276) (810) (1,018) (2,104)
Included in Other non-current assets 77 – 106 183
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (353) (810) (1,124) (2,287)
(276) (810) (1,018) (2,104)
Actual return on plan assets 1,092 159 177 1,428
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 2,904 671 638 4,213
– unlisted – – 8 8
Multi-asset funds 2,700 – – 2,700
Property: – listed – – 55 55
– unlisted 460 145 2 607
Corporate bonds: – listed 297 855 141 1,293
– unlisted 326 – 23 349
Government bonds: – listed 4,923 803 889 6,615
Insurance contracts 1,406 – 832 2,238
Other (liabilities)/assets (35) 315 74 354
Fair value of assets 12,981 2,789 2,662 18,432
Present value of scheme obligations (13,293) (3,506) (3,554) (20,353)
Net surplus/(obligation) (312) (717) (892) (1,921)
Included in Other non-current assets 70 – 57 127
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (382) (717) (949) (2,048)
(312) (717) (892) (1,921)
Actual return on plan assets 787 356 345 1,488Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2019 12,581 2,808 2,390 17,779 –
Exchange adjustments – (110) (120) (230) –
Additions through business combinations – – 14 14 –
Interest income 360 111 37 508 –
Expenses (7) (20) – (27) –
Settlements and curtailments – – 1 1 –
Remeasurement 427 245 312 984 –
Employer contributions 187 40 116 343 110
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 – 17 20 17
Benefits paid (570) (285) (105) (960) (127)
Assets at 31 December 2019 12,981 2,789 2,662 18,432 –
Exchange adjustments – (86) 138 52 –
Interest income 256 87 29 372 –
Expenses (9) (12) – (21) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (20) (20) –
Remeasurement 836 72 148 1,056 –
Employer contributions 156 33 124 313 105
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 – 18 21 18
Benefits paid (641) (248) (110) (999) (123)
Assets at 31 December 2020 13,582 2,635 2,989 19,206 –
Exchange adjustments – 31 (184) (153) –
Interest income 187 57 18 262 –
Expenses (15) (12) – (27) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (7) (7) –
Remeasurement 354 40 30 424 –
Employer contributions 139 40 133 312 105
Scheme participants’ contributions 3 – 24 27 15
Benefits paid (618) (267) (97) (982) (120)
Assets at 31 December 2021 13,632 2,524 2,906 19,062 -
During 2021, the Group made additional funding contributions to the UK pension schemes of £44 million (2020 – £76 million;
2019 – £78 million) but £nil (2020 – £nil; 2019 – £nil) to the US schemes. In 2018, GSK reached a revised agreement
with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficits identified within the
schemes at the 31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. Based on these funding agreements, the additional contributions
to eliminate the pension deficit are expected to be £44 million in 2022 and these are included within Note 35, ‘Commitments’ on
page 216. This funding commitment supersedes the previous agreement made in 2016. The contributions were based on a
government bond yield curve approach to selecting the discount rate; the rate chosen included an allowance for expected
investment returns which reflected the asset mix of the schemes.
Employer contributions for 2022, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £380 million in respect
of defined benefit pension schemes and £90 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.
210 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 211
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2019 (12,087) (3,474) (3,213) (18,774) (1,379)
Exchange adjustments – 140 177 317 50
Additions through business combinations – – (56) (56) (48)
Service cost (62) (74) (130) (266) (22)
Past service cost (49) 3 15 (31) –
Interest cost (341) (140) (53) (534) (52)
Settlements and curtailments – – 8 8 –
Remeasurement (1,321) (246) (390) (1,957) (77)
Scheme participants’ contributions (3) – (17) (20) (17)
Benefits paid 570 285 105 960 127
Obligations at 31 December 2019 (13,293) (3,506) (3,554) (20,353) (1,418)
Exchange adjustments – 118 (188) (70) 36
Disposals – – – – 9
Service cost (61) (83) (147) (291) (36)
Past service cost (98) 56 (1) (43) 55
Interest cost (259) (110) (39) (408) (39)
Settlements and curtailments – – 38 38 7
Remeasurement (785) (168) (208) (1,161) (82)
Scheme participants’ contributions (3) – (18) (21) (18)
Benefits paid 641 248 110 999 123
Obligations at 31 December 2020 (13,858) (3,445) (4,007) (21,310) (1,363)
Exchange adjustments – (40) 258 218 4
Service cost (56) (9) (151) (216) (29)
Past service cost (28) (2) 25 (5) (12)
Interest cost (190) (76) (23) (289) (26)
Settlements and curtailments – – 17 17 –
Remeasurement 218 57 164 439 78
Scheme participants’ contributions (3) – (24) (27) (15)
Benefits paid 618 267 97 982 120
Obligations at 31 December 2021 (13,299) (3,248) (3,644) (20,191) (1,243)
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Funded (19,419) (20,504) (19,547)
Unfunded (772) (806) (806)
(20,191) (21,310) (20,353)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension
scheme, together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.25% (2020 – 6.0%) in 2021, grading down to 5% in
2027 and thereafter. At 31 December 2021, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £1,059 million
(2020 – £1,124 million; 2019 – £1,198 million). Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
At 1 January (2,104) (1,921) (995)
Exchange adjustments 65 (18) 87
Additions through business combinations – – (42)
Service cost (216) (291) (266)
Past service cost (5) (43) (31)
Interest cost (27) (36) (26)
Settlements and curtailments 10 18 9
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 424 1,056 984
(Loss)/gain from change in demographic assumptions (62) 69 78
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions 716 (1,340) (2,022)
Experience (loss)/gain (215) 110 (13)
Employer contributions 312 313 343
Expenses (27) (21) (27)
At 31 December (1,129) (2,104) (1,921)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 19 7 –
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions 35 (93) (80)
Experience gains 24 4 3
78 (82) (77)
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Active 4,196 4,660 4,572
Retired 11,115 11,257 10,485
Deferred 4,880 5,393 5,296
20,191 21,310 20,353
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Active 494 551 549
Retired 748 808 869
Deferred 1 4 –
1,243 1,363 1,418
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2021 2020 2019
years years years
Pension benefits 15 16 15
Post-retirement benefits 12 12 12
212 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 213
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
30. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
The effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2022 annual defined benefit pension and
post-retirement costs are detailed below. This information has been determined by taking into account the duration of the liabilities
and the overall profile of the plan memberships.
0.25% 0.25%
increase decrease
£m £m
Discount rate
(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost (19) 17
Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1 (1)
(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation (729) 772
(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation (34) 35
0.5% 0.5%
increase decrease
£m £m
(Decrease)/increase in annual pension cost (41) 33
Increase/(decrease) in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2 (2)
(Decrease)/increase in pension obligation (1,413) 1,586
(Decrease)/increase in post-retirement benefits obligation (67) 73
0.25% 0.25%
increase decrease
£m £m
Inflation rate
Increase/(decrease) in annual pension cost 15 (14)
Increase/(decrease) in pension obligation 547 (529)
1 year
increase
£m
Life expectancy
Increase in annual pension cost 16
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in pension obligation 724
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 36
1%
increase
£m
Rate of future healthcare inflation
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 39Notes to the financial statements continued
31. Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2021 320 860 326 253 1,759
Exchange adjustments 2 (18) (8) (4) (28)
Charge for the year 117 383 81 119 700
Reversed unused (75) (151) (11) (36) (273)
Unwinding of discount – 2 – – 2
Utilised (168) (389) (65) (28) (650)
Reclassifications and other movements – (8) (1) (3) (12)
Transfer to Pension obligations – (27) – – (27)
At 31 December 2021 196 652 322 301 1,471
To be settled within one year 160 545 66 70 841
To be settled after one year 36 107 256 231 630
At 31 December 2021 196 652 322 301 1,471
Legal and other disputes Major restructuring programmes
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other During 2021, the Group had four major restructuring
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in programmes in progress: the Combined restructuring and
Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other integration programme and the 2018 Major restructuring
disputes include amounts relating to product liability, anti-trust, programme, both of which are now substantially complete,
government investigations, contract terminations and self the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture integration programme
insurance. and the Separation Preparation programme. The programmes
are focused primarily on simplifying supply chain processes,
The net charge for the year of £42 million (including reversals
rationalising the Group’s manufacturing network, restructuring
and estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to
the Pharmaceuticals commercial operations, integrating the
provisions for product liability cases, commercial disputes
Pfizer consumer healthcare business and preparing for the
and various other government investigations.
separation of GSK into two new companies.
The discount on the provision is £nil in 2021 (2020 – increased
Restructuring provisions primarily include severance costs
by £1 million). The discount was calculated using risk-adjusted
when management has made a formal decision to eliminate
projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return.
certain positions and this has been communicated to the
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products, groups of employees affected and appropriate consultation
provision is made when there is sufficient history of claims procedures completed, where appropriate. No provision is
made and settlements to enable management to make a reliable made for staff severance payments that are paid immediately.
estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
The discount on the provisions increased by £2 million in 2021
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts
(2020 – increased by £2 million).
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement Pension augmentation includes £27 million relating to the
negotiations. defined benefit plan arising from staff redundancies, as shown
in Note 30, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of
these matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation Employee related provisions
over many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain
appeal procedures, often take many years to reach resolution,
medical benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in
and out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be
the US. At 31 December 2021, the provision for these benefits
protracted. Indemnified disputes will result in a provision
amounted to £69 million (2020 – £77 million). Other employee
charge and a corresponding receivable.
benefits reflect a variety of provisions for severance costs,
The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number jubilee awards and other long-service benefits.
of the disputes for which amounts have been provided and,
Given the nature of these provisions, the amounts are likely to
based on its current assessment of the progress of these
be settled over many years.
disputes, estimates that £160 million of the amount provided
at 31 December 2021 will be settled within one year. At Other provisions
31 December 2021, it was expected that £4 million Included in other provisions are provisions for onerous
(2020 – £13 million) of the provision made for legal and other contracts, insurance provisions and a number of other
disputes will be reimbursed by third parties. For a discussion provisions including vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.
of legal issues, see Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.
214 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 215
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
32. Contingent consideration liabilities
The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:
Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2019 5,937 296 53 6,286
Remeasurement through income statement 31 67 (15) 83
Cash payments: operating cash flows (767) (13) – (780)
Cash payments: investing activities (98) (11) (4) (113)
Other movements – – 3 3
At 31 December 2019 5,103 339 37 5,479
Remeasurement through income statement 1,114 161 – 1,275
Cash payments: operating cash flows (751) (14) – (765)
Cash payments: investing activities (107) (9) (4) (120)
At 31 December 2020 5,359 477 33 5,869
Remeasurement through income statement 1,026 32 5 1,063
Cash payments: operating cash flows (721) (21) – (742)
Cash payments: investing activities (105) (9) – (114)
At 31 December 2021 5,559 479 38 6,076
Of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2021, £958 million (2020 – £765 million) is expected to be paid within
one year.
The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the Novartis Vaccines business
is expected to be paid over a number of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present values,
shown above. The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8% (2020 – 8.5%) and the
Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liability is discounted at 7.5% (2020– 8%) for commercialised products and at
8.5% (2020 – 9%) for pipeline assets.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare and Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liabilities are calculated principally based on the
forecast sales performance of specified products over the lives of those products.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes
in key inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration liabilities.
2021 2020
Shionogi- Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines Healthcare Vaccines
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts* 506 61 515 80
10% decrease in sales forecasts* (506) (57) (516) (78)
1% increase in discount rate (198) (38) (207) (39)
1% decrease in discount rate 213 45 223 45
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 343 1 305 4
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (299) (4) (262) (2)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 102 28 125 30
10 cent depreciation of Euro (85) (27) (105) (24)
* The sales forecast is for ViiV Healthcare sales only in respect of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration.
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 57.Notes to the financial statements continued
33. Other non-current liabilities
2021 2020
£m £m
Accruals 13 41
Deferred income 85 21
Other payables 823 741
921 803
Other payables includes a number of employee-related liabilities including employee savings plans.
34. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2021, contingent liabilities where GSK has a present obligation as a result of a past event, comprising guarantees
and other items arising in the normal course of business, amounted to £126 million (2020 – £138 million). These contingent
liabilities arise where the Group has a present obligation arising from a past event. At 31 December 2021, £0.2 million (2020
– £0.4 million) of financial assets were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal
and other disputes where it is both probable that the Group will suffer an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable
estimate of that outflow. At 31 December 2021, other than for those disputes where provision has been made, if it is not possible to
meaningfully assess whether the outcomes will result in a probable outflow, or to quantify or reliably estimate the liability, if any, no
provision is recorded. Descriptions of the significant legal and other disputes to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 46,
‘Legal proceedings’.
35. Commitments
2021 2020
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 12,082 12,307
Property, plant and equipment 616 528
Investments 146 153
Purchase commitments 484 746
Pensions 44 88
Interest on loans 7,603 8,309
Future finance charges on leases 153 180
21,128 22,311
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development
or on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are
achieved. The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. The net decrease in intangible asset commitments in 2021 is mainly
attributable to the termination of a number of agreements including the termination of the agreement for bintrafusp alfa with Merck
KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany offset by an increase in a number of new R&D collaborations including with Alector, iTeos Therapeutics
and Lifemine Therapeutics.
In 2018, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the
pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. A payment of £44 million is due in 2022. The table
above includes this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of approximately £110
million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate
swaps.
216 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 217
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
36. Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2019 5,379,067,624 1,345 3,091
Issued under employee share schemes 4,034,607 1 50
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 33
At 31 December 2019 5,383,102,231 1,346 3,174
Issued under employee share schemes 2,087,386 – 29
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 78
At 31 December 2020 5,385,189,617 1,346 3,281
Issued under employee share schemes 1,825,442 1 20
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – –
At 31 December 2021 5,387,015,059 1,347 3,301
31 December 2021 31 December 2020
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 75,210 48,205
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,537,775 4,566,605
At 31 December 2021, of the issued share capital, 23,205,289 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 355,205,950 shares were
held as Treasury shares and 5,008,603,820 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and
market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 44, ‘Employee share schemes’.
37. Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £10,407 million at 31 December 2021 (2020 – £9,960 million; 2019 –
£6,885 million) of which £476 million (2020 – £440 million; 2019 – £394 million) related to associates and joint ventures.
The cumulative translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2019 381 1 (52) 330
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (830) (2) (75) (907)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (75) – – (75)
At 31 December 2019 (524) (1) (127) (652)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (51) (8) (34) (93)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 36 – – 36
At 31 December 2020 (539) (9) (161) (709)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (239) – (20) (259)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
and associates (25) – – (25)
At 31 December 2021 (803) (9) (181) (993)Notes to the financial statements continued
37. Movements in equity continued
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2021 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (239) – – (239)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries
and associates (25) – – (25)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 5 – 5
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense – 12 – 12
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (8) – (8)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (20) (20)
Fair value movements on equity investments – (911) – (911)
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – 131 – 131
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans 941 – – 941
Tax on remeasurement losses in defined benefit plans (223) – – (223)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 454 (771) (20) (337)
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2020 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (51) (8) – (59)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 36 – – 36
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (19) – (19)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense – 54 – 54
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (18) – (18)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (34) (34)
Fair value movements on equity investments – 1,348 – 1,348
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – (220) – (220)
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans (187) – – (187)
Tax on remeasurement losses in defined benefit plans 69 – – 69
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (133) 1,137 (34) 970
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2019 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (830) (2) – (832)
Reclassification of exchange movements on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (75) – – (75)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (20) – (20)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income and expense – 3 – 3
Tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 16 – 16
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (75) (75)
Fair value movements on equity investments – 372 – 372
Tax on fair value movements on equity investments – (95) – (95)
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans (1,050) – – (1,050)
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans 189 – – 189
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1,766) 274 (75) (1,567)
Information on net investment hedges is provided in part (d) of Note 43 ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
218 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 219
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
37. Movements in equity continued
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2019 (161) 140 (47) 2,129 2,061
Exchange adjustments 10 – – – 10
Transferred to Retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – 5 – – 5
Net fair value movement in the year – 264 (1) – 263
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (328) – – – (328)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 344 – – – 344
At 31 December 2019 (135) 409 (48) 2,129 2,355
Exchange adjustments 20 – – – 20
Transferred to Retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (207) – – (207)
Net fair value movement in the year – 1,100 17 – 1,117
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (609) – – – (609)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 529 – – – 529
At 31 December 2020 (195) 1,302 (31) 2,129 3,205
Exchange adjustments (1) – – – (1)
Transferred to Retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (139) – – (139)
Net fair value movement in the year – (780) 10 – (770)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairments of equity investments 168 – – – 168
At 31 December 2021 (28) 383 (21) 2,129 2,463
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December
2021 (2020 – £1,849 million; 2019 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result
of the share buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2021 (2020 – £280 million; 2019 – £280 million).
38. Non-controlling interests
Total non-controlling interests includes the following individually material non-controlling interests. Other non-controlling interests
are individually not material.
ViiV Healthcare
GSK holds 78.3% of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group, giving rise to a material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial
information in respect of the ViiV Healthcare sub-group is as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Turnover 4,637 4,848 4,816
Profit after taxation 1,087 762 2,574
Other comprehensive income/(expense) (17) 33 (29)
Total comprehensive income 1,070 795 2,545
2021 2020
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,796 2,564
Current assets 2,711 2,405
Total assets 5,507 4,969
Current liabilities (3,121) (2,748)
Non-current liabilities (8,472) (8,343)
Total liabilities (11,593) (11,091)
Net liabilities (6,086) (6,122)
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,128 2,249 2,375
Net cash outflow from investing activities (287) (294) (202)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,608) (2,483) (1,947)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts in the year 233 (528) 226Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Non-controlling interests continued
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related
adjustments, primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The profit after taxation of £1,087 million (2020 –
£762 million; 2019 – £2,574 million) is stated after charging preferential dividends payable to GSK, Shionogi and Pfizer and after a
charge of £1,218 million (2020 – £1,112 million; 2019 – £37 million) for remeasurement of contingent consideration payable. This
consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years.
The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s Financial statements:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Share of profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interest 196 223 482
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 224 419 310
Non-controlling interest in the Consolidated balance sheet (570) (539) (344)
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
GSK holds 68% of the Consumer Healthcare sub-group, giving rise to a material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial
information in respect of the Consumer Healthcare sub-group is as follows:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Turnover 9,545 9,837 4,240
Profit after taxation 1,439 1,219 150
Other comprehensive expenses (10) (266) (721)
Total comprehensive income/(expenses) 1,429 953 (571)
2021 2020
£m £m
Non-current assets 29,200 29,134
Current assets 5,251 4,918
Total assets 34,451 34,052
Current liabilities (4,238) (4,254)
Non-current liabilities (3,733) (3,890)
Total liabilities (7,971) (8,144)
Net assets 26,480 25,908
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,356 1,419 1,014
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities (33) 1,018 (776)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,236) (2,437) (78)
Increase in cash and bank overdraft in the year/period 87 – 160
The above financial information relates to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on a stand-alone basis (2019 – for the period
from its formation on 31 July 2019 to December 2019), before the impact of Group-related adjustments and the classification of
cash pooling accounts with Group companies outside the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture but after Major restructuring
charges.
The following amounts attributable to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture are included in GSK’s financial statements:
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Share of profit for the year/period attributable to non-controlling interest 460 374 69
Dividends paid to non-controlling interest 367 735 –
Non-controlling interest in the Consolidated balance sheet 6,609 6,538 6,911
220 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 221
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
39. Related party transactions
During the year, the Group disposed of its interest in Innoviva Inc. See Note 21 for details of disposal. The royalties due from GSK
to Innoviva in the year until the date of disposal were £113 million (2020 – £261 million).
A loan of £4.6 million (2020 – £3.0 million) to Medicxi Ventures I LP remained due to GSK at 31 December 2021. In 2021, GSK
increased the investment in Kurma Biofund II, FCPR by £0.2 million and Medicxi Ventures I LP of £1.0 million. As part of the joint
venture agreement with Qura Therapeutics LLC, the Group has an obligation to fund the joint venture up to April 2025, with both
GSK and its joint venture partner committing financial support in the amount of $26 million. At December 2021, the outstanding
liability due to Qura was $13 million.
Cash distributions were received from our investments in Medicxi Ventures I LP of £5.5 million, in Longwood Founders Fund, LP
of £3.0 million and in Apollo Therapeutics LLP of £0.1 million.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and GLT is given in Note 9, ‘Employee costs’.
40. Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2021
Business acquisitions
GSK completed no material business acquisitions in 2021.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of business disposals for net cash consideration received in the year of £10 million. The profit on the disposal
of the businesses in the year of £24 million was calculated as follows:
Total
£m
Consideration:
Cash consideration including currency forwards, purchase adjustments and deferred consideration 10
Total 10
Net assets sold:
Property, plant and equipment 3
Cash and cash equivalents 1
Other net assets 1
Total 5
Costs:
Deal costs (16)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income 35
Gain on disposals in 2021 24
Associates and joint ventures
On 20 May 2021 GSK agreed with Innoviva, Inc (“Innoviva”) to sell all of its approximately 32 million shares of common stock of
Innoviva back to Innoviva at a price of $12.25 per share, raising gross proceeds of approximately $392 million. Following settlement
of the transaction, GSK will no longer hold any Innoviva stock. See details in Note 21 ‘Investment in associates and joint ventures’.
Cash flows
Associates
and joint
Business ventures
disposals disposals
£m £m
Cash consideration received 43 277
Net deferred consideration paid (51) –
Transaction costs (8) –
Cash and cash equivalents (divested)/acquired (1) –
Cash (outflow)/inflow (17) 277Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
2020
Business acquisitions
GSK completed one smaller business acquisition when it acquired 55% of Pfizer Biotech Corporation Taiwan, a part of Pfizer’s
consumer healthcare business, which was not previously recognised as part of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, on
28 September 2020 for non cash consideration of £129 million. This represented goodwill of £124 million, cash of £21 million
and other assets acquired of £18 million less non-controlling interest of £14 million and net liabilities of £20 million.
Total
£m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 2
Property, plant and equipment 5
Inventory 5
Trade and other receivables 6
Cash and cash equivalents 21
Trade and other payables (20)
19
Non-controlling interest (14)
Goodwill 124
129
Non-cash consideration (settlement of a promissory note) 129
Total consideration 129
Business disposals
On 1 April 2020, GSK completed its divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition products in India and a
number of other countries (excluding Bangladesh) to Unilever and the merger of GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity
with Hindustan Unilever, an Indian listed public company. GSK received a 5.7% equity stake in Hindustan Unilever and £395 million
in cash. GSK disposed of its equity stake in Hindustan Unilever during May 2020.
The divestment in Bangladesh closed on 30 June 2020. Total cash consideration received was £177 million.
The cash divested as part of the disposal of the India and Bangladesh Consumer Healthcare entities was £478 million.
The profit on the disposal of the businesses in the year of £2,795 million was calculated as follows:
Horlicks
divestment Other Total
£m £m £m
Consideration:
Cash consideration receivable including currency forwards and purchase adjustments 492 157 649
Equity investment in Hindustan Unilever Limited 3,124 – 3,124
Total 3,616 157 3,773
Net assets disposed:
Goodwill 142 1 143
Intangible assets 15 103 118
Property, plant and equipment 56 12 68
Inventory – 6 6
Cash and cash equivalents 478 3 481
Other net (liabilities)/assets (155) 1 (154)
Total 536 126 662
Costs:
Transaction costs 12 28 40
Derivative 240 – 240
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income 36 – 36
Total 288 28 316
Gain on disposals 2,792 3 2,795
222 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 223
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
The exposure to share price movements embedded in the agreement to merge GSK’s Indian listed Consumer Healthcare entity
with Hindustan Unilever Limited as part of the divestment of Horlicks and other nutrition products in India and a number of other
countries was recognised as a derivative between signing of the agreement in 2018 and completion of the transaction in 2020.
£240 million is recorded as a cost in the table above for the derecognition of the derivative asset. This largely reflects fair value
gains recognised in the Income Statement in prior periods.
Associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made investments into associates of £4 million and £4 million was paid in cash.
Cash flows Associates
and joint
Business Business ventures
acquisitions disposals investments
£m £m £m
Cash consideration received/(paid) – 786 (4)
Net deferred consideration – (19) –
Transaction costs (6) (27) –
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/(divested) 21 (481) –
Cash inflow/(outflow) 15 259 (4)
2019
Business acquisitions
Pfizer consumer healthcare business
The acquisition of Pfizer’s consumer healthcare business completed on 31 July 2019.
GSK and Pfizer have contributed their respective consumer healthcare businesses into a new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
in a non-cash transaction, whereby GSK has acquired Pfizer’s consumer healthcare business in return for shares in the Joint
Venture. GSK has an equity interest of 68% and majority control of the Joint Venture and Pfizer has an equity interest of 32%.
As the Group has control over the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture it is consolidated within the Group’s financial statements.
In a number of territories, legal completion of the acquisition has not occurred because of regulatory constraints. However, the
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture obtained control of the majority of these businesses in these territories from 31 July 2019
and has consolidated the net assets of those businesses from that date, but in all cases is entitled to the benefits of the trading
of businesses in the delayed territories.
The non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, calculated applying the proportionate goodwill method,
represents Pfizer’s share of the net assets of the Joint Venture, excluding goodwill.
Goodwill of £3.9 billion, which is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes, has been recognised. The goodwill represents
the potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired businesses with GSK’s existing business together with the
value of the workforce acquired. Total transaction costs recognised in 2018 and 2019 for the acquisition amounted to £77 million.
Since acquisition on 31 July 2019, sales of £1.2 billion arising from the Pfizer consumer healthcare business have been included in
Group turnover. If the business had been acquired at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group turnover in 2019 would
have been approximately £1.5 billion higher. The business has been integrated into the Group’s existing activities and it is not
practicable to identify the impact on the Group profit in the period.
Tesaro Inc.
On 22 January 2019, GSK acquired 100% of Tesaro Inc., an oncology focused biopharmaceutical company, for cash consideration
of $5.0 billion (£3.9 billion), in order to strengthen the Group’s pharmaceutical pipeline. Transaction costs amounted to £31 million.
Goodwill of £1.2 billion, none of which is expected to be tax-deductible, has been recognised. The goodwill represents the
potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired businesses with GSK’s existing business together with the value
of the workforce acquired. From acquisition on 22 January 2019 to 31 December 2019, sales of £0.2 billion arising from the Tesaro
business have been included in Group turnover. The business has been integrated into the Group’s existing activities and it is not
practicable to identify the impact on the Group profit in the period.Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
The fair value of the assets acquired in business combinations, including goodwill, are set out in the table below. Amounts related to
the Pfizer consumer healthcare business acquisition are provisional and subject to change.
Pfizer
consumer
healthcare
business Tesaro Other
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 12,357 3,092 –
Property, plant and equipment 354 6 –
Right of use assets 39 40 –
Inventory 986 162 –
Trade and other receivables 546 115 35
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 302 254 16
Trade and other payables (779) (282) (39)
Net deferred tax liabilities (2,591) (252) –
Other liabilities (99) (5) –
Term loan – (445) –
Non-controlling interest (3,577) – –
Goodwill 3,854 1,169 –
Total 11,392 3,854 12
Consideration settled by shares in GSK Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture 11,392 – –
Cash consideration paid – 3,854 6
Fair value of investment in joint venture converted into subsidiary – – 6
Total consideration 11,392 3,854 12
The non-controlling interest of £3,577 million represents Pfizer’s share of the fair value of the Pfizer consumer healthcare business,
excluding goodwill. The total non-controlling interest initially recognised in the Consolidated statement of changes in equity of
£6,887 million also includes Pfizer’s share of the book value of GSK Consumer Healthcare.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of business disposals for net cash consideration received in the year of £104 million. The profit on the
disposal of the businesses in the year of £201 million was calculated as follows:
Total
£m £m
Cash consideration receivable net of subsidy payable 106
Net assets disposed:
Goodwill (4)
Intangible assets (1)
Property, plant and equipment (44)
Inventory (7)
Cash and cash equivalents (12)
Other net assets (4)
(72)
Transaction costs (27)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income 75
Non-controlling interest divested 16
98
Transaction signed but not yet completed – gain on embedded derivative 143
Transaction signed but not yet completed – transaction costs (40)
Total profit on disposal 201
224 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 225
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
40. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Transaction signed but not yet completed at 31 December 2019
In December 2018, GSK agreed to divest Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition brands to Unilever PLC and to form
a merger of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited with Hindustan Unilever Limited for a total consideration valued at
approximately £3.1 billion. GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited was a public company listed on the National Stock
Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), in which GSK held a 72.5% stake. Following the merger of GlaxoSmithKline
Consumer Healthcare Limited with Hindustan Unilever Limited, a public company listed on the NSE and BSE, GSK would own
133.8 million Hindustan Unilever Limited shares.
The Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts in relation to the transaction. Contracts with a value of £1.7 billion
were designated as a cash flow hedge of part of the foreign exposure arising on the transaction. Further contracts with a value of
£0.6 billion were designated as net investment hedges against INR and EUR assets. In addition, the exposure to share price
movements in the forward purchase of shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited were recognised as an embedded derivative. The
embedded derivative was in an asset position and had a fair value of £240 million at 31 December 2019 (2018 – £100 million).
Associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made investments of £27 million into associates and joint ventures of which £11 million was paid in cash.
Cash flows Associates
and joint
Business Business venture
acquisitions disposals investments
£m £m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/received (3,860) 161 (11)
Net deferred consideration received – 29 –
Transaction costs (95) (73) –
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/divested 384 (13) –
Cash (outflow)/inflow (3,571) 104 (11)
41. Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 5,096 6,388 5,268
Tax on profits 346 580 953
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures (33) (33) (74)
Finance expense net of finance income 756 848 814
Depreciation 1,195 1,214 1,231
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,182 1,137 1,103
Impairment and assets written off 540 781 825
Profit on sale of businesses (38) (2,831) (201)
Profit on sale of intangible assets (568) (426) (342)
Loss on sale of investments in associates 36 – –
Profit on sale of equity investments (8) (69) (2)
Business acquisition costs – – 59
Changes in working capital:
Decrease in inventories 25 119 300
Increase in trade receivables (782) (224) (32)
Increase in trade payables 284 225 263
(Increase) in other receivables (314) (159) (160)
Contingent consideration paid (see Note 32) (742) (765) (780)
Other non-cash increase in contingent consideration liabilities 1,063 1,275 83
Increase in other payables 1,324 818 89
Increase/(decrease) in pension and other provisions (340) 400 (188)
Share-based incentive plans 367 381 365
Fair value adjustments (17) 464 19
Other (129) (27) (61)
4,147 3,708 4,264
Cash generated from operations 9,243 10,096 9,532Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2021 2020 2019
£m £m £m
Net debt, as previously reported (20,780) (25,215) (21,621)
Implementation of IFRS 16 – – (1,303)
Net debt at beginning of year, as adjusted (20,780) (25,215) (22,924)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,414) 470 826
Increase/(decrease) in liquid investments (18) 1 (1)
Increase in long-term loans – (3,298) (4,794)
Repayment of short-term Notes 2,313 3,738 4,160
Repayment of/(increase in) other short-term loans (318) 3,567 (3,095)
Repayment of lease liabilities 215 227 214
Debt of subsidiary undertakings acquired – – (524)
Exchange adjustments 314 (135) 1,015
Other non-cash movements (150) (135) (92)
Movement in net debt 942 4,435 (2,291)
Net debt at end of year (19,838) (20,780) (25,215)
At
At 1 January Interest Change Reclass- 31 December
2021 Exchange Other expense in fair value ifications Cash flow 2021
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 78 1 – – – – (18) 61
Cash and cash equivalents 6,292 (29) (1) – – – (1,988) 4,274
Overdrafts (1,030) – – – – – 574 (456)
5,262 (29) (1) – – – (1,414) 3,818
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (17) 8 – – – – (243) (252)
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (2,350) 1 – – – (2,494) 2,247 (2,596)
Lease liabilities (230) 5 7 – – (200) 215 (203)
Other (98) 15 (2) – – – (9) (94)
(2,695) 29 5 – – (2,694) 2,210 (3,145)
Debt due after one year:
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (22,538) 306 – (22) – 2,494 – (19,760)
Lease liabilities (887) 7 (132) – – 200 – (812)
(23,425) 313 (132) (22) – 2,694 – (20,572)
Net debt (20,780) 314 (128) (22) – – 778 (19,838)
Interest payable (247) – (30) (753) – – 786 (244)
Derivative financial instruments (74) – – – 72 – (20) (22)
Total liabilities from financing activities* (26,441) 342 (157) (775) 72 – 2,976 (23,983)
* Excluding cash and cash equivalents, overdrafts and liquid investments.
226 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 227
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
42. Adjustments of net cash flow to movement in net debt continued
At
At 1 January Interest Change Reclass- 31 December
2020 Exchange Other expense in fair value ifications Cash flow 2020
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 79 – – – – – (1) 78
Cash and cash equivalents 4,707 (44) – – – – 1,629 6,292
Cash and cash equivalents - AHFS 507 – – – – – (507) –
Overdrafts (383) 5 – – – – (652) (1,030)
4,831 (39) – – – – 470 5,262
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (3,586) (50) – – – – 3,619 (17)
European/US MTN and Bank facilities (2,658) 38 – – – (3,468) 3,738 (2,350)
Lease liabilities (240) (4) 16 – – (229) 227 (230)
Other (51) 12 (7) – – – (52) (98)
(6,535) (4) 9 – – (3,697) 7,532 (2,695)
Debt due after one year:
European/US MTN & Bank facilities (22,580) (104) (4) (20) – 3,468 (3,298) (22,538)
Lease liabilities (1,010) 19 (125) – – 229 – (887)
(23,590) (85) (129) (20) – 3,697 (3,298) (23,425)
Net debt (25,215) (128) (120) (20) – – 4,703 (20,780)
Interest payable (244) 1 – (868) – – 864 (247)
Derivative financial instruments 335 – – – (290) – (119) (74)
Total liabilities from financing activities* (30,034) (88) (120) (888) (290) – 4,979 (26,441)
* Excluding cash and cash equivalents, overdrafts and liquid investments.
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 29, ‘Net debt’.Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activity is to minimise the GSK has access to short-term finance under a $10 billion
post-tax net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility (£7.4 billion) US commercial paper programme; $nil (£nil) was
to benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety of in issue at 31 December 2021 (2020 – $25 million (£17
financial instruments to finance its operations and derivative million)). GSK has access to short-term finance under a £5
financial instruments to manage market risks from these billion Euro commercial paper programme; €300 million (£252
operations. Derivatives principally comprise of foreign exchange million) was in issue at 31 December 2021 (2020 – £nil). At 31
forward contracts and swaps which are used to swap December 2021, GSK had a £1.9 billion three-year committed
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group facility and a $2.5 billion (£1.9 billion) 364-day committed
purposes as well as interest rate swaps which are used to facility. The three-year committed facility was agreed in
manage exposure to financial risks from changes in interest September 2019, extended by one year in September 2020
rates. These financial instruments reduce the uncertainty of and was extended again by one year to 2024 in August 2021.
foreign currency transactions and interest payments. The 364-day committed facility was agreed in August 2021.
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in These committed facilities were undrawn at 31 December
relation to underlying business activities and not as trading or 2021. GSK considers this level of committed facilities to be
speculative instruments. adequate, given current liquidity requirements.
In preparation for the separation of the Consumer Healthcare
Capital management
business, in February 2022 GSK cancelled and replaced the
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic
three year and 364 day facilities. New revolving credit facilities
priorities and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages
of equivalent size were agreed with maturities in September
the capital structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of
2025 and September 2023.
debt and equity.
GSK has a £20.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note programme
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
and at 31 December 2021, £10.5 billion of notes were in issue
£19.8 billion (see Note 29, ‘Net debt’) and total equity, including
under this programme. The Group also had $15.7 billion
items related to non-controlling interests, of £21.3 billion (see
(£11.6 billion) of notes in issue at 31 December 2021 under a
‘Consolidated statement of changes in equity’ on page 170).
US shelf registration. GSK’s borrowings mature at dates
Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling
between 2022 and 2045.
interests, is £41.1 billion.
The put option owned by Pfizer in ViiV Healthcare is
The Group continues to manage its financial policies to a credit
exercisable. In reviewing liquidity requirements GSK considers
profile that particularly targets short-term credit ratings of A-1
that sufficient financing options are available should the put
and P-1 while maintaining single A long-term ratings consistent
option be exercised.
with those targets. The Group’s long-term credit rating with
Standard & Poor’s is A (stable outlook) and with Moody’s Market risk
Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) it is A2 (stable outlook). The
Interest rate risk management
Group’s short-term credit ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activity is to minimise the
& Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
effective net interest cost and to balance the mix of debt at fixed
Liquidity risk management and floating rates over time.
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated The Group’s main interest rate risk arises from borrowings and
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity investments with floating rates and refinancing of maturing fixed
sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad access rate debt where any changes in interest rates will affect future
to financial markets. Each day, we sweep cash to or from a cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments. The policy
number of global subsidiaries and central Treasury accounts for on interest rate risk management limits the net amount of
liquidity management purposes. GSK utilises both physical and floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and agreed no
notional cash pool arrangements as appropriate by location and less than annually by the Board.
currency. For notional cash pools, liquidity is drawn against
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and
foreign currency balances to provide both local funding and
changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly
central liquidity as required and with balances actively managed
affect the Group’s net interest charge. This includes some
and maintained to appropriate levels. As balances in notional
borrowings for which interest rate swaps are in place which
pooling arrangements are not settled across currencies, gross
removes the impact of the associated periodic repricing.
cash and overdraft balances are reported.
Short-term borrowings including bank facilities are exposed to
At 31 December 2021, GSK had £3.6 billion of borrowings the risk of future changes in market interest rate as are the
repayable within one year and held £4.3 billion of cash and majority of cash and liquid investments.
cash equivalents and liquid investments of which £2.9 billion
was held centrally.
228 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 229
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Interest rate benchmark reform In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the
‘Interest rate benchmark reform – Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of
39, IFRS 4, IFRS 7 and IFRS 16’ Phase I and Phase II were our principal assets and cash flows. These are primarily
issued by the IASB in September 2019 and August 2020, and denominated in US Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings
adopted by the UK Endorsement Board on 5 January 2021. can be swapped into other currencies as required.
Phase I of the amendment modifies specific hedge accounting
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign
requirements to allow hedge accounting to continue for
currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets
affected hedges during the period of uncertainty before the
may be treated as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward
hedged items or hedging instruments affected by the current
contracts in major currencies are also used to reduce exposure
interest rate benchmarks are amended as a result of the
to the Group’s investment in overseas assets (see ‘Net
ongoing interest rate benchmark reforms. Phase II also provides
investment hedges’ section of this note for further details).
that, for financial instruments measured using amortised cost
measurement, changes to the basis for determining the Credit risk
contractual cash flows required by interest rate benchmark
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its
reform should be reflected by adjusting their effective interest
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group
rate and no immediate gain or loss should be recognised.
and arises on cash and cash equivalents and favourable
The Group has closely monitored the market and the output derivative financial instruments held with banks and financial
from the various industry working groups managing the institutions as well as credit exposures to wholesale and retail
transition to new benchmark interest rates. This includes customers, including outstanding receivables.
announcements made by LIBOR regulators, including the
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the US Commodity
2021 to be £11,417 million (31 December 2020 – £12,572
Futures Trading Commission, regarding the transition away
million) which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with
from LIBOR (including GBP LIBOR, USD LIBOR and
the exception of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity
EURIBOR) to the Sterling Overnight Index Average Rate
investments) which bear equity risk rather than credit risk.
(SONIA), the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR),
See page 232 for details on the Group’s total financial assets.
and the Euro Short-Term Rate (€STR) respectively.
At 31 December 2021, GSK’s greatest concentration of
At 31 December 2021, the Group was not directly exposed credit risk was £0.9 billion with a wholesaler in the US
to interest rate benchmark reform as it held no interest rate (2020 - £1.4 billion with Legal and General Investment
derivatives or floating rate debt that referenced to LIBOR. The Management Class 4 GBP liquidity fund (AAA/Aaa)).
Group did not transition any material derivatives or floating rate See page 230 for further information on the Group’s credit
debt into a new index as all of the instruments referencing risk exposure in respect of the three largest US wholesaler
LIBOR matured before December 2021. customers.
Foreign exchange risk management There has been no change in the estimation techniques or
The Group’s objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas significant assumptions made during the current reporting
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local period in assessing the loss allowance for financial assets at
currency income with local currency costs where possible. amortised cost or at FVTOCI since the adoption of IFRS 9 at
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external the start of the 2018 reporting period.
and internal trade flows are selectively hedged. GSK’s internal
Treasury-related credit risk
trading transactions are matched centrally and inter-company
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking
payment terms are managed to reduce foreign currency risk.
and investment counterparties based on long-term credit
Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or
ratings from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally
limits is actively monitored.
using forward contracts to hedge future repayments back
into the originating currency. GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing
surplus cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s
strategy to regionalise cash management and to concentrate
cash centrally as much as possible. The table below sets out
the credit exposure to counterparties by rating for liquid
investments, cash and cash equivalents and derivatives.
The gross asset position on each derivative contract is
considered for the purpose of this table, although, under ISDA
agreements, the amount at risk is the net position with each
counterparty. Table (e) on page 240 sets out the Group’s
financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
At 31 December 2021, £54 million (2020 – £47 million) of cash is categorised as held with unrated or sub-investment grade rated
counterparties (lower than BBB-/Baa3) of which £7 million (2020 – £1 million) is cash in transit. The remaining exposure is
concentrated in overseas banks used for local cash management or investment purposes, including: £19 million in Nigeria held with
United Bank for Africa, Zenith Bank, Access Bank and Stanbic IBTC Bank; £14 million with Halk Bank in the UK; £2 million with BTV
in Austria; £2 million in Argentina held with Banco de la Nacion and Banco de la Provincia; £2 million with J Trust Royal Bank in
Cambodia; £1 million with Produbanco in Ecuador; £1 million with Banco Central de Honduras in Honduras; £1 million with BAC
San José in Panama and £1 million with Banco Popular in Puerto Rico. Of the £77 million of bank balances and deposits held with
BBB/Baa rated counterparties, £25 million was held with BBB-/Baa3 rated counterparties, including balances or deposits of
£24 million with HDFC Bank in India. These banks are used for local investment purposes.
GSK measures expected credit losses over cash and cash equivalents as a function of individual counterparty credit ratings and
associated 12 month default rates. Expected credit losses over cash and cash equivalents and third-party financial derivatives are
deemed to be immaterial and no such loss has been experienced during 2021.
Credit ratings are assigned by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinions of the two rating agencies differ,
GSK assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source available,
the ratings are converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s using published conversion tables.
These credit ratings form the basis of the assessment of the expected credit loss on Treasury-related balances held at amortised
cost being bank balances and deposits and Government securities.
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2021 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 7 2,687 77 54 2,825
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 54 – – – – 54
Liquidity funds 1,395 – – – – 1,395
Government securities – 60 – 1 – 61
3rd party financial derivatives – – 200 – – 200
Total 1,449 67 2,887 78 54 4,535
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 10 2,575 368 47 3,000
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 317 – – – – 317
Liquidity funds 2,975 – – – – 2,975
Government securities – 77 – 1 – 78
3rd party financial derivatives – – 134 12 – 146
Total 3,292 87 2,709 381 47 6,516
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to At 31 December 2021, the Group had trade receivables due
£2.9 billion at 31 December 2021, all available within three from these three wholesalers totalling £2,430 million or 39% of
months. This includes £1.7 billion of cash managed by the total trade receivables (2020 – £2,362 million or 43%). The
Group for ViiV Healthcare, a 78.3% owned subsidiary and Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of
£0.7 billion of cash managed by the Group for GSK Consumer these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them encounters
Healthcare, a 68% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the
centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA Group’s financial results.
rated US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these
and Aaa/AAA rated liquidity funds.
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial
Wholesale and retail credit risk information and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of of GSK internal risk ratings, and establishment and periodic
the Group’s trade receivables balance. review of credit limits.
In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the All new customers are subject to a credit vetting process and
Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers existing customers will be subject to a review at least annually.
in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other The vetting process and subsequent reviews involve obtaining
groups. Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to information including the customer’s status as a government or
approximately 75% (2020 – 79%) of the sales of the US private sector entity, audited financial statements, credit bureau
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses in 2021. reports, debt rating agency (e.g. Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s)
reports, payment performance history (from trade references,
industry credit groups) and bank references.
230 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 231
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Trade receivables consist of amounts due from a large number Fair value of financial assets and liabilities excluding
of customers, spread across diverse industries and lease liabilities
geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed The table on page 232 presents the carrying amounts and the
on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities
appropriate, credit insurance is purchased or factoring excluding lease liabilities at 31 December 2021 and
arrangements put in place. 31 December 2020.
The amount of information obtained is proportional to the level The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included
of exposure being considered. The information is evaluated at the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
quantitatively (i.e. credit score) and qualitatively (i.e. judgement) transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
in conjunction with the customer’s credit requirements to participants at the measurement date.
determine a credit limit.
The following methods and assumptions are used to measure
Trade receivables are grouped into customer segments that the fair values of significant financial instruments carried at fair
have similar loss patterns to assess credit risk while other value on the balance sheet:
receivables and other financial assets are assessed individually.
– Other investments – equity investments traded in an active
Historical and forward-looking information is considered to
market determined by reference to the relevant stock
determine the appropriate expected credit loss allowance.
exchange quoted bid price; other equity investments
The Group believes there is no further credit risk provision
determined by reference to the current market value of similar
required in excess of the allowance for expected credit losses
instruments, recent financing rounds or the discounted cash
(see Note 25, ‘Trade and other receivables’).
flows of the underlying net assets
Credit enhancements
– Trade receivables carried at fair value – based on invoiced
The Group uses credit enhancements including factoring
amount
and credit insurance to minimise the credit risk of the trade
receivables in the Group. At 31 December 2021, £315 million – Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts,
(2020 – £386 million) of trade receivables were insured in swaps and options – based on the present value of
order to protect the receivables from loss due to credit risks contractual cash flows or option valuation models using
such as default, insolvency and bankruptcy. market sourced data (exchange rates or interest rates) at the
balance sheet date
Each Group entity assesses the credit risk of its private
customers to determine if credit insurance is required. – Cash and cash equivalents carried at fair value – based on
net asset value of the funds
Factoring arrangements are managed locally by entities and
are used to mitigate risk arising from large credit risk – Contingent consideration for business acquisitions and
concentrations. All factoring arrangements are non-recourse. divestments – based on present values of expected future
cash flows.
The following methods and assumptions are used to estimate
the fair values of significant financial instruments which are not
measured at fair value on the balance sheet:
– Receivables and payables, including put options, carried at
amortised cost – approximates to the carrying amount
– Liquid investments – approximates to the carrying amount
– Cash and cash equivalents carried at amortised cost –
approximates to the carrying amount
– Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices (a level 1
fair value measurement) in the case of European and US
Medium Term Notes; approximates to the carrying amount in
the case of other fixed rate borrowings and floating rate bank
loans
– Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
approximates to the carrying amount because of the short
maturity of these instruments.Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2021 2020
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Other non-current assets b 21 21 37 37
Trade and other receivables b 4,830 4,830 3,990 3,990
Liquid investments 61 61 78 78
Cash and cash equivalents 2,825 2,825 3,000 3,000
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI a 1,927 1,927 2,939 2,939
Trade and other receivables a,b 1,943 1,943 1,942 1,942
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments a 199 199 121 121
Other non-current assets a,b 23 23 30 30
Trade and other receivables a,b 59 59 46 46
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e 83 83 68 68
Cash and cash equivalents a 1,449 1,449 3,292 3,292
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements
through Other comprehensive income) a,d,e 123 123 89 89
Total financial assets 13,543 13,543 15,632 15,632
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under lease liabilities:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (4,982) (5,311) (7,681) (8,171)
– other bonds (17,373) (20,746) (17,205) (21,966)
– bank loans and overdrafts (550) (550) (1,110) (1,110)
– commercial paper (252) (252) (17) (17)
– other borrowings (1) (1) (20) (20)
Total borrowings excluding lease liabilities f (23,158) (26,860) (26,033) (31,284)
Trade and other payables c (15,431) (15,431) (13,748) (13,748)
Other provisions c (113) (113) (232) (232)
Other non-current liabilities c (52) (52) (72) (72)
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities a,c (6,076) (6,076) (5,869) (5,869)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e (171) (171) (200) (200)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements
through Other comprehensive income) a,d,e (57) (57) (31) (31)
Total financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities (45,058) (48,760) (46,185) (51,436)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities excluding lease liabilities (31,515) (35,217) (30,553) (35,804)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 231.
Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration
liabilities and Other non-current liabilities are reconciled to the relevant Notes on pages 234 and 235.
232 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 233
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
At 31 December 2021, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £28 million
(2020 – £195 million) and a market value of £373 million (2020 – £657 million) based on quoted market price. The shares are held
by the ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee incentive schemes. In 2021, the carrying
value, which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves.
At 31 December 2021, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £4,969 million (2020 – £4,969 million) which has been deducted
from retained earnings.
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available,
the asset or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable
market data. If one or more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is
classified as Level 3. Other investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities
with which the Group has entered into research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 1,736 – 191 1,927
Trade and other receivables – 1,943 – 1,943
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments – – 199 199
Other non-current assets – – 23 23
Trade and other receivables – 59 – 59
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 77 6 83
Cash and cash equivalents 1,449 – – 1,449
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 123 – 123
3,185 2,202 419 5,806
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (6,076) (6,076)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (171) – (171)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (57) – (57)
– (228) (6,076) (6,304)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 2,281 – 658 2,939
Trade and other receivables – 1,942 – 1,942
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments – – 121 121
Other non-current assets – – 30 30
Trade and other receivables – 46 – 46
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 63 5 68
Cash and cash equivalents 3,292 – – 3,292
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – 89 – 89
5,573 2,140 814 8,527
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (5,869) (5,869)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (191) (9) (200)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments (fair value movements through OCI) – (31) – (31)
– (222) (5,878) (6,100)Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2021 2020
£m £m
At 1 January (5,064) (4,722)
Net losses recognised in the income statement (1,024) (1,269)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 189 160
Settlement of contingent consideration liabilities 856 885
Additions 99 126
Disposals and settlements (19) (172)
Transfers from Level 3 (694) (72)
At 31 December (5,657) (5,064)
Net losses of £1,024 million (2020 – £1,269 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in the
income statement were all in respect of financial instruments which were held at the end of the year and were reported in Other
operating income. Charges of £1,026 million (2020 – £1,114 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration
payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £32 million (2020 – £161 million) arose from
remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the Novartis Vaccines business. Net gains of £195
million (2020 – net gains of £39 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments reported in Other comprehensive income as
Fair value movements on equity investments arose prior to transfer from Level 3 on equity investments which transferred to a Level
1 valuation methodology as a result of listing on a recognised stock exchange during the year. Net gains and losses include the
impact of exchange movements.
Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December included £5,559 million (2020 – £5,359 million) in
respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This
consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products
and movements in certain foreign currencies. They also included £479 million (2020 – £477 million) in respect of contingent
consideration for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a
number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products, the achievement of certain milestone
targets and movements in certain foreign currencies. Sensitivity analysis on these balances is provided in Note 32, ‘Contingent
consideration liabilities’.
(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall
within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning.
Non-financial instruments include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of
IFRS 9.
2021 2020
Non- Non-
At At Amortised Financial financial At At Amortised Financial financial
FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total FVTPL FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 25) 59 1,943 4,830 6,832 1,028 7,860 46 1,942 3,990 5,978 974 6,952
Other non-current assets
(Note 23) 23 – 21 44 1,632 1,676 30 – 37 67 974 1,041
82 1,943 4,851 6,876 2,660 9,536 76 1,942 4,027 6,045 1,948 7,993
Trade and other receivables include trade receivables of £6,246 million (2020 – £5,549 million). The Group has portfolios in each
of the three business models under IFRS 9: £59 million (2020 – £46 million), measured at FVTPL, is held to sell the contractual
cash flows as the receivables will be sold under a factoring arrangement, £1,943 million (2020 – £1,942 million), measured at
FVTOCI, is held to either collect or sell the contractual cash flows as the receivables may be sold under a factoring agreement,
and £4,244 million (2020 – £3,561 million), measured at amortised cost, is held to collect the contractual cash flows and there is
no factoring agreement in place.
234 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 235
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration liabilities and Other non-current
liabilities in scope of IFRS 9
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Contingent consideration
liabilities and Other non-current liabilities which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial
liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing. Non-financial instruments include payments on account, tax and social security
payables and provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset, which are outside
the scope of IFRS 9.
2021 2020
Non- Non-
Amortised Financial financial Amortised Financial financial
At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 28) – (15,431) (15,431) (2,123) (17,554) – (13,748) (13,748) (2,092) (15,840)
Other provisions
(Note 31) – (113) (113) (1,358) (1,471) – (232) (232) (1,527) (1,759)
Contingent consideration
liabilities (Note 32) (6,076) – (6,076) – (6,076) (5,869) – (5,869) – (5,869)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 33) – (52) (52) (869) (921) – (72) (72) (731) (803)
(6,076) (15,596) (21,672) (4,350) (26,022) (5,869) (14,052) (19,921) (4,350) (24,271)
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments and are classified as ‘held for trading’,
other than designated and effective hedging instruments, and are presented as current assets or liabilities if they are expected to be
settled within 12 months after the end of the reporting period, otherwise they are classified as non-current. The Group has the
following derivative financial instruments:
2021 2020
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Non-current
Cash flow hedges – Interest rate swap contracts
(principal amount – £1,996 million (2020 – £nil)) 12 (1) – –
Current
Cash flow hedges – Interest rate swap contracts
(principal amount – £nil (2020 – £899 million)) – – – (1)
Net investment hedges – Cross currency swaps
(principal amount – £nil (2020 – £549 million)) – – – (18)
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £160 million (2020 – £24 million)) – (3) – –
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £5,469 million (2020 – £11,193 million)) 111 (53) 89 (12)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments 123 (57) 89 (31)
Non-current
Embedded and other derivatives 6 – 5 (10)
Current
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £9,728 million (2020 – £13,563 million)) 77 (169) 57 (190)
Embedded and other derivatives – (2) 6 –
Derivatives classified as held for trading 83 (171) 68 (200)
Total derivative instruments 206 (228) 157 (231)
Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Net investment hedges
At 31 December 2021, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign
currency translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro) and Japanese (JPY) foreign
operations as shown in the table above.
The carrying value of bonds on page 232 included £4,982 million (2020 – £7,681 million) that were designated as hedging
instruments in net investment hedges.
Cash flow hedges
During 2018-2021, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as cash flow hedges.
These were entered into to hedge the foreign exchange exposure arising on cash flows from Euro denominated coupon payments
relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note programme, on the buyout of Novartis’
non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture in 2018, on the divestment of Horlicks and other nutrition brands
which took place in 2020 and on refinancing existing debt maturities.
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. In addition, the Group carries a
balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds issued in prior years in
the current year, and in the future. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
Foreign exchange risk
In the current year, the Group has designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps as cash flow and net
investment hedges. Foreign exchange derivative financial assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative financial
instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet. The following tables detail the foreign exchange
forward contracts and swaps outstanding at the end of the reporting period, as well as information on the related hedged items.
Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness
assessments to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The Group enters
into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item, and so
a qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that
the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the hypothetical
derivative method to assess effectiveness.
The main source of hedge ineffectiveness in these hedging relationships is the effect of the counterparty and the Group’s own
credit risk on the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps, which is not reflected in the fair value of the
hedged item attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates and ineffectiveness on rolling the cash flow hedges of the
divestments mentioned above. No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships. Ineffectiveness
to be recorded from cash flow hedges amounted to £nil in 2021 (2020 – gain of £7 million). No ineffectiveness was recorded from
net investment hedges (2020 – £nil).
Included in the 2020 table below under ‘Borrowings’ are bonds with notional value of US$750 million that have been swapped to
fixed interest rate EUR debt with a cross currency interest rate swap.
2021
Periodic
change in value
for calculating
Average Foreign Notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.32 USD 89 (2) –
3 to 6 months 1.17 EUR 48 (1) (1)
Over 6 months 1.17 EUR 23 – –
160 (3) (1)
236 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 237
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2021
Periodic
change in value
for calculating
Average Foreign Notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.18 EUR 5,348 58 578
SGD – – 55
155.19 JPY 121 – 15
Borrowings
Less than 3 months EUR 252 (252) 11
Over 6 months EUR 4,998 (4,982) 459
10,719 (5,176) 1,118
2021
Cumulative balance in cash
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve
ineffectiveness for continuing hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued 1 (1)
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations (1,117) (873)
2020
Periodic
change in value
for calculating
Average Foreign Notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
3 to 6 months 1.12 EUR 24 0.1 –
24 0.1 –
2020
Periodic
change in value
for calculating
Average Foreign Notional Carrying hedge
exchange rate currency value value ineffectiveness
Hedging instruments £m £m £m
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.10 EUR 9,663 60 (370)
Less than 3 months 1.79 SGD 1,387 13 32
Less than 3 months 139.41 JPY 143 4 (30)
Borrowings (including cross currency interest rate swaps):
3 to 6 months EUR 549 (550) (34)
Over 6 months EUR 7,117 (7,131) (501)
18,859 (7,604) (903)Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2020
Cumulative balance in cash
Periodic change in value flow hedge reserve/foreign
for calculating hedge currency translation reserve
ineffectiveness for continuing hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction – –
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued – –
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations 903 (1,983)
£19 million (2020 – £19 million) of balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arise from hedging relationships for which hedge
accounting is no longer applied.
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2021
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Amount Line item Hedged
of hedge in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging ineffectiveness loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) gains/(losses) which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction 7 – Other – (7) Other
operating operating
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on (1) – Finance – – Finance
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations 1,117 – Finance – (7) Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2020
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Amount Line item Hedged
of hedge in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging ineffectiveness loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) gains/(losses) which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction (15) 7 Other – 51 Other
operating operating
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on – – Finance – – Finance
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Net investment hedges
Net investment in foreign operations (903) – Finance – – Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
238 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 239
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Interest rate risk
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, where at quarterly intervals the
difference between fixed contract rates and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal
amounts are exchanged.
There are none of these swaps outstanding as 31 December 2021, however, the interest rate risk on an element of future debt
issuance has been managed by entering into forward starting interest rate swaps, effectively to lock in the interest rates on the debt
in advance. These will be closed out at the time of issuing the debt, and the resulting gain or loss held in OCI and recycled to
income statement as the interest payments on the debt impact the income statement.
Forward starting interest rate swaps
The forward starting interest rate contracts, exchanging floating interest for fixed interest, have been designated as cash flow
hedges to hedge the interest variability of the interest cash flows associated with the future fixed rate debt.
Interest rate swaps
The interest rate swap contracts, exchanging floating rate interest for fixed interest, have been designated as cash flow hedges to
hedge the variability of the interest cash flows associated with floating rate debt relating to notes issued under the Group’s European
Medium Term Note programme. The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount
accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss over the period that the floating rate interest payments affect profit or loss.
The critical terms of the interest rate swap and forward starting interest rate swap contracts and their corresponding hedged items
are materially the same. A qualitative assessment of effectiveness is performed and it is expected that the value of the interest rate
swap contracts and the value of the corresponding hedged items will systematically change in opposite directions in response to
movements in the underlying interest rates. The main sources of ineffectiveness in these hedge relationships are the effects of the
Group’s own credit risk on the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts, which are not reflected in the fair value of the hedged item
attributable to the change in interest rates. No other material sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships.
The following tables provide information regarding interest rate swap and forward starting interest rate swap contracts outstanding
and the related hedged items at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020. Interest rate swap contract assets and liabilities are
presented in the line ‘Derivative financial instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet.
2021
Change in
fair value for
Average Notional recognising Fair value
contracted fixed principal hedge assets/
rate value ineffectiveness (liabilities)
Hedging instruments % £m £m £m
5-10 years 1.1038 668 4 4
10-30 years 1.3385 935 3 3
More than 30 years 1.4515 393 4 4
2021
Balance in cash
Change in value flow hedge
used for reserve for
calculating continuing
hedge hedges
ineffectiveness after tax
Hedged items £m £m
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rate (11) (8)
£11 million (2020 – £11 million) of balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arise from hedge relationships for which hedge
accounting is no longer applied.
2020
Change in
fair value for
Average Notional recognising Fair value
contracted fixed principal hedge assets/
rate value ineffectiveness (liabilities)
Hedging instruments % £m £m £m
Less than 1 year 0.17 1,449 3 (19)
1 to 2 years – – – –
2020
Balance in cash
Change in value flow hedge
used for reserve for
calculating continuing
hedge hedges
ineffectiveness after tax
Hedged items £m £m
Variable rate borrowings (3) 1Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2021
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment is
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows (11) – Finance – 17 Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates:
Matured in the past – – Finance – 2 Finance
5-10 years 4 – income/ – – income/
(expense) (expense)
10-30 years 3 – – –
>30 years 4 – – –
2020
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment is
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows 3 – Finance – – Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates (7) – Finance – 3 Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right
to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously. There are also arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to be
offset in certain circumstances, such as bankruptcy or the termination of a contract.
The following tables set out the financial assets and liabilities that are offset, or subject to enforceable master netting arrangements
and other similar agreements but not offset, as at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020. The column ‘Net amount’ shows the
impact on the Group’s balance sheet if all offset rights were exercised.
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset amount
At 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 6,851 (19) 6,832 (3) 6,829
Derivative financial instruments 206 – 206 (192) 14
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (15,450) 19 (15,431) 3 (15,428)
Derivative financial instruments (228) – (228) 192 (36)
240 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 241
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset balance
At 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 5,997 (19) 5,978 (28) 5,950
Derivative financial instruments 157 – 157 (142) 15
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (13,767) 19 (13,748) 28 (13,720)
Derivative financial instruments (231) – (231) 142 (89)
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances
principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each
party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. As there is presently not a legally
enforceable right of offset, these amounts have not been offset in the balance sheet, but have been presented separately in the
table above.
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis
of fixed rate debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this
table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings other than lease liabilities.
2021 2020
Total
debt Total
£m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (3,398) (3,495)
Between one and two years (4,030) (2,561)
Between two and three years (1,576) (4,061)
Between three and four years (1,365) (1,622)
Between four and five years (1,425) (1,398)
Between five and ten years (4,411) (5,981)
Greater than ten years (6,953) (6,915)
Total (23,158) (26,033)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (22,355) (23,002)
Floating rate interest (803) (3,031)
(23,158) (26,033)
In addition to the above, forward starting interest rate swaps have been entered into, which affect the pricing of debt to be raised in
the future. See Section (d) Interest Rate Risk for further details.Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(g) Sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrate the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of hypothetical market movements
in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to the Group’s financial instruments. The range of variables chosen for the
sensitivity analysis reflects management’s view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The Group operates internationally and is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in US
Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Foreign exchange risk arises from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not in
the functional currency of the entity that holds them. Based on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December, a
weakening and strengthening of Sterling against these currencies, with all other variables held constant, is illustrated in the tables
below. The tables exclude financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign exchange risk where this risk is fully hedged with
another financial instrument.
2021 2020
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 5 20
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (26) (25)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen – (1)
2021 2020
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (4) (17)
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 22 21
10 yen depreciation of the Yen – 1
The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments
hedging the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange
exposure arising on Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term
Note programme.
2021 2020
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (964) (1,711)
2021 2020
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 814 1,429
242 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 243
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The tables below present the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening and strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency based
on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 29 adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net
debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2021 2020
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (767) (782)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro 444 286
10 yen appreciation of the Yen 17 23
2021 2020
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 661 675
10 cent depreciation of the Euro (375) (239)
10 yen depreciation of the Yen (15) (20)
Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will
affect future cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the
Group’s net interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.
The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US Dollar and Euro
floating rate financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate financial assets and liabilities were to have
increased by 1% (100 basis points), and assuming other variables had remained constant, it is estimated that the Group’s finance
income for 2021 would have decreased by approximately £11 million (2020 – £14 million increase). A 1% (100 basis points)
movement in USD interest rates would cause an increase of £197 million to equity (2020 - £nil). A 1% (100 basis points)
movement in interest rates EUR or Sterling is not deemed to have a material effect on equity.
2021 2020
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates (25) 8
1% (100 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates 11 28
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates 3 (22)Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provide an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-
derivative financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings
except for lease liabilities. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without taking account of future issuance.
Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are
translated using spot rates at 31 December.
Finance Trade payables
charge and other
Interest Lease on lease liabilities not
Debt on debt liabilities liabilities in net debt Total
At 31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (3,399) (686) (203) (25) (16,432) (20,745)
Between one and two years (4,042) (620) (185) (22) (935) (5,804)
Between two and three years (1,582) (574) (120) (19) (893) (3,188)
Between three and four years (1,372) (538) (93) (16) (919) (2,938)
Between four and five years (1,428) (500) (73) (14) (924) (2,939)
Between five and ten years (4,440) (2,046) (205) (44) (2,703) (9,438)
Greater than ten years (7,033) (2,639) (136) (13) (1,571) (11,392)
Gross contractual cash flows (23,296) (7,603) (1,015) (153) (24,377) (56,444)
Finance Trade payables
charge and other
Interest Lease on lease liabilities not
Debt on debt liabilities liabilities in net debt Total
At 31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (3,493) (725) (230) (34) (14,554) (19,036)
Between one and two years (2,566) (686) (207) (28) (995) (4,482)
Between two and three years (4,078) (621) (126) (22) (897) (5,744)
Between three and four years (1,632) (576) (96) (18) (867) (3,189)
Between four and five years (1,407) (539) (86) (15) (883) (2,930)
Between five and ten years (6,018) (2,177) (239) (47) (3,169) (11,650)
Greater than ten years (6,997) (2,985) (133) (16) (1,529) (11,660)
Gross contractual cash flows (26,191) (8,309) (1,117) (180) (22,894) (58,691)
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments excluding
equity options which do not give rise to cash flows, and other embedded derivatives, which are not material, using undiscounted
cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign
exchange contracts are presented for the purpose of this table although, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement
arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
2021 2020
Gross cash inflows Gross cash ouflows Gross cash inflows Gross cash outflows
Foreign Foreign Foreign Foreign
Forward exchange Forward exchange Cross exchange Cross exchange
starting forward starting forward currency forward currency forward
interest rate contracts interest rate contracts interest rate contracts interest rate contracts
swaps and swaps swaps and swaps swaps and swaps swaps and swaps
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year – 41,252 (13) (41,290) 551 32,451 (569) (32,508)
Between one and two years 12 – (26) – – – – –
Between two and three years 24 – (26) – – – – –
Between three and four years 28 – (26) – – – – –
Between four and five years 28 – (26) – – – – –
Greater than five years 259 – (220) – – – – –
Gross contractual cash flows 351 41,252 (337) (41,290) 551 32,451 (569) (32,508)
244 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 245
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
44. Employee share schemes
GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to
acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three-year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan,
whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement
by the Group of specified performance targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options
to employees as the cost of the schemes more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also
operates savings related share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GlaxoSmithKline
plc at a discounted price.
Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three-year vesting or performance period. Awards are
normally granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc but in some circumstances may be settled in cash.
Grants under savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In accordance with UK
practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price
ruling at the date of grant. Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.
The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2021 was £404 million (2020 – £393 million; 2019 – £432 million). Of this
amount, £303 million (2020 – £313 million; 2019 – £302 million) arose from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’
for further details.
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to
three years and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing share
price on the day of grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 3.8% (2020 – 5.0%; 2019 – 4.2%) over the duration
of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2019 34,068 17,387
Awards granted 12,814 £15.85 7,008 $37.90
Awards exercised (11,709) (6,079)
Awards cancelled (1,704) (976)
At 31 December 2019 33,469 17,340
Awards granted 13,223 £13.60 7,411 $34.42
Awards exercised (11,402) (5,746)
Awards cancelled (1,418) (1,015)
At 31 December 2020 33,872 17,990
Awards granted 13,681 £13.30 7,280 $36.68
Awards exercised (11,440) (5,726)
Awards cancelled (1,776) (1,705)
At 31 December 2021 34,337 17,839
Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested
during the same period. For awards granted from 2016 to 2019, the performance conditions are based on three equally weighted
measures over a three-year performance period. These were adjusted free cash flow, TSR and R&D new product performance.
For awards granted from 2020, the performance conditions are based on four measures over a three-year performance period.
These are adjusted free cash flow (30%), TSR (30%), R&D new product performance (20%) and pipeline progress (20%).
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements,
this is adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
During 2021, awards were made of 4.9 million shares at a weighted fair value of £10.69 and 1.6 million ADS at a weighted fair value
of $29.40. At 31 December 2021, there were outstanding awards over 13.7 million shares and 3.8 million ADS.Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Employee share schemes continued
Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing savings-related options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing
model has been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
2021 Grant 2020 Grant 2019 Grant
Risk-free interest rate 0.74% (0.07)% 0.44%
Dividend yield 3.8% 6.2% 4.5%
Volatility 27% 27% 22%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount) £12.07 £10.34 £14.15
Savings-related
Options outstanding
share option schemes
Weighted
Number exercise
000 price
At 31 December 2021 7,165 £11.58
Range of exercise prices on options outstanding at year end £10.34 – £14.15
Weighted average market price on exercise during year £13.30
Weighted average remaining contractual life 2.1 years
Options over 1.9 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted average
fair value of £3.22. At 31 December 2021, 5.3 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy
awards made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the
ESOP Trusts purchase shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. The costs of running the ESOP
Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and amortised
down to the value of proceeds, if any, receivable from employees on exercise by a transfer to retained earnings. The trustees have
waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts. On 10 February 2022, 50.3 million treasury shares were
transferred to the ESOP Trusts after which the Trusts held 72.9 million shares against the exercise of share options and share
rewards.
Shares held for share award schemes 2021 2020
Number of shares (000) 23,065 48,835
£m £m
Nominal value 6 12
Carrying value 27 194
Market value 371 655
Shares held for share option schemes 2021 2020
Number of shares (000) 139 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 2 2
246 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 247
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
45. Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2021. The
equity share capital of these entities is shown in the percentage columns. All companies are incorporated in their principal country
of operation except where stated.
England % US %
Glaxo Group Limited 100.00 Alacer Corp 68.00
Glaxo Operations UK Limited 100.00 Block Drug Company, Inc. 68.00
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc 100.00 Corixa Corporation 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited* 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited 68.00 GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC 68.00
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited 68.00 GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. 59.84
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline LLC 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited* 100.00 Human Genome Sciences, Inc. 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited 100.00 GSK Consumer Health, Inc. 68.00
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited* 100.00 GSK Equity Investments, Limited 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited 100.00 Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited 100.00 Tesaro, Inc. 100.00
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited 100.00 ViiV Healthcare Company 78.30
Setfirst Limited 100.00
SmithKline Beecham Limited 100.00
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited 78.30
ViiV Healthcare Limited 78.30
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited 78.30
Europe % Others %
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA (Belgium) 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline Santé Grand Public (France) 68.00 GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) 68.00
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline (France) 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil) 100.00
ViiV Healthcare SAS (France) 78.30 GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare ULC/GlaxoSmithKline Soins 68.00
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) 68.00 De Sante Aux Consommateurs SRI (Canada)
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada) 100.00
GSK Vaccines GmbH (Germany) 100.00 ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada) 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.r.l (Italy) 68.00 PF Consumer Healthcare Canada ULC/PF Soins De Sante 68.00
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy) 100.00 SRI (Canada)
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. (Italy) 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline Limited (China (Hong Kong)) 100.00
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. (Italy) 78.30 Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd (China) 37.40
Pfizer Consumer Manufacturing Italy S.r.l. (Italy) 68.00 Wyeth Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd (China) 68.00
GSK Services Sp z o.o. (Poland) 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline Asia Private Limited (India) 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of Ireland)** 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India) 75.00
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO (Russia) 68.00 GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. (Japan) 68.00
JSC GlaxoSmithKline Trading (Russia) 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan) 100.00
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain) 100.00 GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan) 82.60
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. (Spain) 78.30 Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd. (Singapore) 100.00
GSK Consumer Healthcare SARL (Switzerland) 68.00 GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (Republic of Korea) 100.00
* Directly held wholly-owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
** Head office in England.
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and GlaxoSmithKline LLC, is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the
company, and the company has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.,
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and GlaxoSmithKline LLC.
See pages 299 to 310 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these
financial statements.Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative Dolutegravir Proceedings
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, – Tivicay/Triumeq
tax, anti-trust, consumer fraud and governmental investigations. In 2017, ViiV Healthcare received patent challenge letters under
The most significant of these matters, other than tax matters, the Hatch-Waxman Act from Cipla, Dr. Reddy’s Labs and Apotex
are described below. The Group makes provision for these for Triumeq and Tivicay; letters from Lupin and Mylan for Triumeq;
proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, and a letter from Sandoz for Tivicay. ViiV Healthcare lists two
‘Accounting principles and policies’ and Note 31, ‘Other patents in the FDA Orange Book for Tivicay and Triumeq.
provisions’. Note 2 also describes when disclosure is made of One patent covers the molecule dolutegravir and expires on
proceedings for which there is no provision. Legal expenses 5 October 2027. The second patent claims a crystal form of
incurred and provisions related to legal claims are charged to dolutegravir and expires on 8 December 2029. All the letters
selling, general and administration costs. The Group does not challenged only the later-expiring crystal form patent. Several of
believe that information about the amount sought by plaintiffs, the generic companies allege only that the crystal form patent is
if that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those invalid, while others claim the crystal form patent is both invalid
legal proceedings. This is due to a number of factors, including, and not infringed by their proposed products. In 2017, ViiV
but not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the entitlement of Healthcare filed patent infringement suits against all six generic
parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories of liability, companies. Settlements have been reached in all litigations.
damages and governing law.
In September 2021, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV
At 31 December 2021, the Group’s aggregate provision for legal letter from Lupin relating to the Tivicay 5mg dosage for oral
and other disputes (not including tax matters described in Note suspension, challenging only the crystal form patent. On 2
14, ‘Taxation’) was £196 million. There can be no assurance that November 2021, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin in the
any losses that result from the outcome of any legal proceedings US District Court for the District of Delaware. No trial date has
will not exceed by a material amount the amount of the provisions yet been set.
reported in the Group’s financial statements. If this were to
– Dovato
happen, it could have a material adverse impact on the results
In September 2019, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV
of operations of the Group in the reporting period in which the
letter from Cipla relating to Dovato and challenging only the
judgements are incurred or the settlements entered into.
crystal form patent. On 4 November 2019, ViiV Healthcare filed
Intellectual property suit against Cipla in the US District Court for the District of
Delaware. No trial date has yet been set.
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity
and enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products – Juluca
or processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those In January 2020, ViiV Healthcare received a paragraph IV letter
patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of from Lupin relating to Juluca and challenging the crystal form
patent protection for the product at issue. The consequences patent as well as a patent relating to the combination of
of any such loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that dolutegravir and rilpivirine that expires on 24 January 2031. On
product and could materially affect future results of operations 28 February 2020, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Lupin on
for the Group. both patents. Additionally, on 12 June 2020, Cipla sent ViiV
Healthcare a paragraph IV letter related to Juluca, and on 22 July
Coreg
2020, ViiV Healthcare filed suit against Cipla in federal court in
In 2014, GSK initiated suit against Teva for inducing
Delaware. The court has yet to set a trial date in either matter.
infringement of its patent relating to the use of carvedilol
(Coreg) in decreasing mortality caused by congestive heart – Litigation Against Gilead Sciences, Inc.
failure. In June 2017, the case proceeded to a jury trial in the On 7 February 2018, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement
US District Court for the District of Delaware. The jury returned litigation regarding bictegravir against Gilead Sciences, Inc.
a verdict in GSK’s favour, awarding GSK lost profits and (Gilead) in the US District Court for the District of Delaware
reasonable royalties for a total award of $235.51 million. On 29 and Canadian federal court. ViiV Healthcare alleged that
March 2018, the trial judge ruled on post-trial motions filed by Gilead’s triple combination HIV drug containing the HIV
Teva and found that substantial evidence at trial did not support integrase inhibitor bictegravir infringes ViiV Healthcare’s patent
the jury’s finding of induced infringement, overturning the jury covering dolutegravir and other compounds that include
award. GSK appealed, and on 2 October 2020, a divided panel dolutegravir’s unique chemical scaffold. ViiV Healthcare also
of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the commenced actions in the UK, France, Germany, Japan, Ireland,
district court’s ruling and reinstated the jury award in GSK’s South Korea and Australia against Gilead, alleging that Gilead’s
favour. On 2 December 2020, Teva filed a petition for rehearing Biktarvy infringes certain of ViiV Healthcare’s HIV integrase
en banc. The court granted Teva’s petition, but only for a inhibitor patents. ViiV Healthcare has agreed to settle the global
rehearing by the three-member panel that issued the original patent infringement litigation between GSK, Shionogi (a
decision. On 5 August 2021, the original panel issued its shareholder of ViiV Healthcare) and Gilead concerning ViiV
rehearing opinion where the majority again reinstated the jury’s Healthcare’s patents relating to dolutegravir. Details regarding
damages award of $235.51 million in GSK’s favour. Teva again the global settlement and licensing agreement can be found in
filed a petition for rehearing en banc which was rejected by the Note 47, ‘Post balance sheet events’.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on 11 February 2022.
248 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 249
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
46. Legal proceedings continued
Product liability The Group has been named as a defendant in approximately
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product 2,150 US personal injury claims and numerous unfiled claims
liability lawsuits. registered in a census required by the Court presiding over the
Zantac Multidistrict Litigation (MDL) proceeding. Class actions
Avandia
alleging economic injury and a third-party payer class action
There are two pending US class actions brought by third-party
also have been filed in federal court. Outside the US, there
payers which assert claims under the Racketeer Influenced
are three class actions pending against the Group in Canada,
and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and state consumer
along with a class action in Israel. Among the state court cases
protection laws. In December 2019, the Third Circuit Court of
naming the Group, the first bellwether trial in California is
Appeals reversed the summary judgements granted in favour
currently scheduled to begin 10 October 2022 and a trial
of the Group and remanded the third-party payer cases back
has been scheduled in Madison County, Illinois to proceed
to district court. Discovery is underway in the district court but
on 22 August 2022.
no trial dates have yet been set. It is possible that a class
certification hearing will be held in early 2023. On 6 February 2020, the US product liability litigation was
assigned MDL status in the Southern District of Florida. The
PPI litigation
Group has filed several rounds of Motions to Dismiss in the
Certain members of the Group are defendants in the ongoing
MDL resulting in the following position: 1) the Court ruled in
proton pump inhibitor (PPI) litigation, in which plaintiffs allege
favour of the Group’s motion on innovator liability; that issue
that their use of PPIs caused serious bodily injuries, including
is on appeal; 2) the Court ruled in favour of Defendants with
acute kidney injury, chronic kidney disease and end-stage
respect to the Third Party Payor Class Action; Plaintiffs opted
renal failure. As of January 2022, there are approximately 1,500
not to replead their action and these issues are now on appeal;
Prevacid 24HR personal injury lawsuits and approximately
3) the Court dismissed RICO claims from the Economic Loss
2,300 Nexium 24HR cases pending against the Group, nearly
Class Action but allowed the class to move forward on plaintiffs
all of which are pending in a Multidistrict Litigation (MDL)
misbranding theory; and 4) the Medical Monitoring and
proceeding in the District of New Jersey. Manufacturers of other
Economic Loss class actions are allowed to move forward.
PPIs, including both prescription and OTC products, also are
Generics, retailers and packagers have been dismissed from
named as co-defendants in the MDL. The Group has filed
the cases.
motions to dismiss several hundred cases, but the MDL court
has not yet ruled on those motions. The first PPI bellwether In the MDL, plaintiffs were required to identify the types of
trial was delayed due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic cancer that they wished to pursue and identified 10 different
and is now set for October 2022 but will not involve the Group. types. In November 2021, plaintiffs withdrew from consideration
In addition to the MDL cases, a small number of cases are breast cancer and kidney cancer, reducing the number of types
pending in state courts. of cancer from 10 to 8. In January 2022, plaintiffs withdrew from
consideration colorectal, prostate and lung and will proceed
Zantac
only as to the following five types of cancer: bladder,
In 2019, the Group was contacted by several regulatory
esophageal, gastric, liver and pancreatic.
authorities regarding the detection of N-Nitroso-dimethylamine
(NDMA) in Zantac (ranitidine) products. Based on information In addition to the class action litigation, on 20 March 2020,
available at the time and correspondence with regulators, the the Department of Justice (DOJ) sent the Group notice of a civil
Group made the decision to suspend the release, distribution investigation it had opened into allegations of False Claims Act
and supply of all dose forms of Zantac to all markets pending violations by the Group related to Zantac. On 18 June 2020,
the outcome of the ongoing tests and investigations. Also, as the DOJ served a Civil Investigative Demand on the Group,
a precautionary action, the Group made the decision to initiate formalizing its request for documents. On the same day, the
a voluntary pharmacy/retail level recall of Zantac products New Mexico Attorney General filed a lawsuit against multiple
globally. defendants, including the Group, alleging violations of state
consumer protection and false advertising statutes, among
On 30 April 2020, the European Medicines Agency (EMA)
other claims.
recommended the suspension of ranitidine medicines.
Following the publication of the EMA’s recommendation,
the Company communicated a decision not to re-enter the
market. In the US, FDA requested that all manufacturers
withdraw ranitidine products from the market.Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
Zofran Anti-trust/competition
The Group was a defendant in over 400 product liability cases Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been
involving Zofran pending in a Multidistrict Litigation (MDL) brought against the Group alleging violation of competition or
proceeding in the District of Massachusetts. The cases alleged anti-trust laws.
that children suffered birth defects due to their mothers’
UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation
ingestion of Zofran and/or generic ondansetron for pregnancy-
On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets
related nausea and vomiting. Plaintiffs asserted that the Group
Authority (CMA) issued a decision fining the Group £37.6
sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women, failed
million for infringement of the Competition Act, in connection
to warn of the risks and illegally marketed Zofran “off-label” for
with agreements to settle patent disputes the Group entered
use by pregnant women.
into in 2001 and 2002 with potential suppliers of generic
On 1 June 2021, the MDL Court granted the Group’s motion for paroxetine formulations.
summary judgment on federal pre-emption grounds. The Court
The Group appealed to the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT),
found that the FDA was fully informed of all relevant safety
which delivered its initial judgement on 8 March 2018 but
information regarding Zofran and had repeatedly rejected any
referred certain questions of law to the European Union Court
attempt to add a birth defect warning to the label. The Court
of Justice (ECJ). On 30 January 2020, the ECJ issued its
granted judgment for the Group in all cases pending in the MDL
judgement endorsing, in general, the approach undertaken by
and closed the MDL proceeding. On 1 July 2021, Plaintiffs filed
the CMA in its original decision. On 10 May 2021, the CAT
an appeal of the preemption decision to the United States
delivered its final judgement and held that GSK had infringed
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. The appeal is pending.
applicable competition law but reduced the fine imposed on
The Group is also a defendant in two state court cases and the Group from £37.6 million to £22.2 million. This litigation is
four proposed class actions in Canada. now closed.
Sales and marketing and regulation Lamictal
Purported classes of direct purchasers filed suit in the US
The Group’s marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical
District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the
and Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental
Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay
investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under
generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to
various theories of law.
the purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive
GSK Korea – Proceedings under Fair Trade Laws
reverse payment settlement to resolve patent infringement
In August 2020, GSK Korea was indicted under Korea’s litigation. A separate count accuses the Group of monopolising
Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade laws in relation to the market.
government tenders of HPV (Cervarix) and PCV (Synflorix)
On 13 December 2018, the trial judge granted plaintiffs’ class
vaccines in 2018 and 2019. The prosecutor has alleged that
certification motion, certifying a class of direct purchasers. The
GSK Korea, through the actions of at least one of its
Group filed a Rule 23(f) motion in the Court of Appeals for the
employees, interfered with the tender process under the
Third Circuit, challenging the class certification decision. On
National Immunisation Programme by using “straw bidders.”
22 April 2020, the Court of Appeals vacated the lower court’s
One employee also has been charged in his individual capacity grant of class certification and remanded the issue back to the
by the prosecutor in relation to the same matter. Further, a lower court for further analysis.
number of wholesalers are co-defendants in the proceedings.
On 9 October 2020, the district court heard argument on
The Korea Fair Trade Commission also has commenced an
plaintiffs’ renewed motion for class certification after remand.
investigation of GSK Korea regarding the same matter. GSK
On 9 April 2021, the district court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for
Korea is cooperating with the authorities on these matters.
class certification of the putative direct purchaser class, leaving
Proceedings are ongoing.
a potential class of brand-only purchasers. Plaintiffs moved to
supplement their expert report and seek additional discovery
to support the addition of certain generic purchasers. On 21
January 2022, the district court denied Plaintiffs’ motion to
supplement their expert report and seek additional discovery
and held that the issue of generic purchasers had already been
decided and denied in the court’s ruling on decertification. The
parties will now move to briefing on class certification as to the
remaining brand-only purchasers.
250 GSK Annual Report 2021Notes to the financial statements continued
GSK Annual Report 2021 251
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
47. Post balance sheet events
On 1 February 2022, ViiV Healthcare reached agreement with Gilead to settle the global patent infringement litigation relating to
the commercialisation of Gilead’s Biktarvy concerning ViiV Healthcare’s patents relating to dolutegravir, an anti-retroviral medication
used, together with other medicines, to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Under the terms of the global settlement and
licensing agreement, Gilead made an upfront payment of $1.25 billion to ViiV Healthcare on 15 February 2022. In addition, Gilead
will also pay a 3% royalty on all future US sales of Biktarvy and in respect of the bictegravir component of any other future
bictegravir-containing products sold in the US. These royalties will be payable by Gilead to ViiV Healthcare from 1 February 2022
until the expiry of ViiV Healthcare’s US Patent No. 8,129,385 on 5 October 2027. Gilead’s obligation to pay royalties does not
extend into any period of regulatory paediatric exclusivity, if awarded.
The settlement resulted in a re-measurement of the existing liabilities for contingent consideration and the Pfizer put option at the
2021 year end. The upfront payment is a contingent asset at the balance sheet date as its receipt was not considered virtually
certain at that date and therefore it will be recognised in Q1 2022 as Other operating income. As a result of the settlement, patent
infringement cases in the US, UK, France, Ireland, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Australia, and Canada will be discontinued.
.Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) as at 31 December 2021
2021 2021 2020 2020
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets – investments E 54,995 54,992
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables F 2,720 1,689
Cash at bank 17 14
Total current assets 2,737 1,703
Trade and other payables G (598) (531)
Total current liabilities (598) (531)
Net current assets 2,139 1,172
Total assets less current liabilities 57,134 56,164
Provisions for liabilities H (12) (7)
Other non-current liabilities I (458) (457)
Net assets 56,664 55,700
Capital and reserves
Share capital J 1,347 1,346
Share premium account J 3,301 3,281
Other reserves K 1,420 1,420
Retained earnings:
At 1 January 49,653 49,206
Profit/(loss) for the year 4,942 3,893
Other changes in retained earnings (3,999) (3,446)
K 50,596 49,653
Equity shareholders’ funds 56,664 55,700
The financial statements on pages 252 to 256 were approved by the Board on 28 February 2022 and signed on its behalf by
Sir Jonathan Symonds
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2021
Share Share premium Other Retained Total
capital account reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2020 1,346 3,174 1,420 49,206 55,146
Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders – – – 3,893 3,893
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,977) (3,977)
Shares issued under employee share schemes – 29 – – 29
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trusts – 78 – 531 609
At 31 December 2020 1,346 3,281 1,420 49,653 55,700
Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders – – – 4,942 4,942
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,999) (3,999)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 1 20 – – 21
At 31 December 2021 1,347 3,301 1,420 50,596 56,664
252 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 253
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet –
UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
A) Presentation of the financial statements The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
Description of business
described in Note B. These policies have been consistently
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major
applied, unless otherwise stated.
global healthcare group which is engaged in the creation
and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of Key accounting judgements and estimates
pharmaceutical products, including vaccines, over-the-counter No key accounting judgements or estimates were required in
(OTC) medicines and health-related consumer products. the current year.
Preparation of financial statements
B) Accounting policies
The financial statements, which are prepared using the
Foreign currency transactions
historical cost convention (as modified to include the revaluation
of certain financial instruments) and on a going concern basis, Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange
are prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard rate ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets
101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ and with UK accounting and liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the
presentation and the Companies Act 2006 as at 31 December balance sheet date.
2021, with comparative figures as at 31 December 2020. Dividends paid and received
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Dividends paid and received are included in the financial
income statement of the company is not presented in this statements in the period in which the related dividends are
Annual Report. actually paid or received.
Expenditure
The company is included in the Group financial statements of
GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available. Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services
received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements,
in respect of a past event and where the amount of the
in accordance with FRS 101:
obligation can be reliably estimated.
– Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based
Investments in subsidiary companies
payment’
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
– IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments – Disclosures’ provision for impairment and also includes a capital contribution
in relation to movements in contingent consideration.
– Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’
Impairment of investments
– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
comparative information requirements in respect of
when there is an indication that the investment might be
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1
impaired. One of the assessment methods used is to compare
– Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D), the carrying value of each investment against its share of the
111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial net assets value of the investment or against its share of the
statements’ valuation of the subsidiary based on expected discounted cash
– IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ flows. The total amount of investments is also evaluated against
the Group’s valuation on the basis of overall market
– Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes
capitalisation. Any impairment charge is recognised in the
in accounting estimates and errors’
income statement in the year concerned.
– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and the
Share-based payments
further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party
The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant
transactions entered into between two or more members
over the company’s shares, represents additional capital
of a Group.
contributions by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional
Accounting convention and standards investment in subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical in shareholders’ equity. The additional capital contribution is
cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting based on the fair value of the grant issued, allocated over the
standards. underlying grant’s vesting period.
Accounting principles and policies
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual
amounts could differ from those estimates.Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
Taxation Financial guarantees
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on
applying tax rates that have been enacted or substantively behalf of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value
enacted by the balance sheet date. and amortised over the life of the guarantee.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
C) O perating profit
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
A fee of £12,600 (2020 – £12,600) relating to the audit of the
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial
company has been charged in operating profit.
statements. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the
extent that they are considered recoverable against future
D) Dividends
taxable profits.
The directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are dividend for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend for
expected to apply in the periods in which the temporary 2020. For further details, see Note 16 to the Group financial
differences are expected to be realised or settled. Deferred statements, ‘Dividends’.
tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
E) Fixed assets – investments
2021 2020
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 637 637
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited 34,800 34,800
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
53,376 53,376
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 1,139 1,139
Contribution relating to contingent consideration 480 477
54,995 54,992
F) Trade and other receivables
2021 2020
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 9 10
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2,319 1,231
2,328 1,241
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 392 448
2,720 1,689
The movement in the Amounts owed by Group undertakings in the period, as reflected within Notes 7 and 8, primarily reflects the
receipt of dividend income from subsidiaries and utilisation of the company’s current account to fund the payment of the third and
fourth interim 2020 dividends as well as the first and second interim dividends for 2021.
254 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 255
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
G) Trade and other payables
2021 2020
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other creditors 457 511
Contingent consideration payable 22 20
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 119 –
598 531
The company has guaranteed debt issued by its subsidiary companies from one of which it receives fees. In aggregate, the company
has outstanding guarantees over £22.4 billion of debt instruments (2020 – £24.9 billion). The amounts due from the subsidiary
company in relation to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade and other
receivables’ (see Note F).
H) Provisions for liabilities
2021 2020
£m £m
At 1 January 7 4
Charge for the year 24 15
Utilised (19) (12)
At 31 December 12 7
The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
I) Other non-current liabilities
2021 2020
£m £m
Contingent consideration payable 458 457
The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The
current year liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’. For further details, see Note 32 to the Group financial statements,
‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
J) Share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary Shares of 25p each account
Number £m £m
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2020 5,383,102,231 1,346 3,174
Issued under employee share schemes 2,087,386 – 29
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP trusts – – 78
At 31 December 2020 5,385,189,617 1,346 3,281
Issued under employee share schemes 1,825,442 1 20
At 31 December 2021 5,387,015,059 1,347 3,301
31 December 31 December
2021 2020
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 75,210 48,205
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,537,775 4,566,605
At 31 December 2021, of the issued share capital, 23,205,289 (2020 – 48,975,304) shares were held in the ESOP Trusts,
355,205,950 (2020 – 355,205,950) shares were held as Treasury shares and 5,008,603,820 (2020 – 4,981,008,363) shares
were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts
are disclosed in Note 44, ‘Employee share schemes’. On 10 February 2022, 50.3 million treasury shares were transferred to the
ESOP Trusts after which the Trusts held 72.9 million shares against the exercise of share options and share rewards.
K) Retained earnings and other reserves
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £4,942 million (2020 – £3,893 million profit). After dividends paid of £3,999
million (2020 – £3,977 million), and the effect of £nil Treasury shares transferred to a subsidiary company (2020 – £531 million)
retained earnings at 31 December 2021 stood at £50,596 million (2020 – £49,653 million), of which £38,896 million was
unrealised (2020 – £38,896 million). Dividends to shareholders are paid out of the realised profits of the company, which at
31 December 2021 amounted to £11,700 million (2020 – £10,757 million).
Other reserves includes a capital redemption reserve and a reserve reflecting historical contributions of shares in the company
which were issued to satisfy share option awards granted to employees of subsidiary companies.
L) Group companies
See pages 299 to 310 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other significant shareholdings, which forms
part of these financial statements.
256 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 257
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Investor
information
In this section
Quarterly trend 258
Pharmaceuticals turnover 260
Vaccines turnover 262
Five year record 263
Product development pipeline 269
Products, competition and intellectual property 272
Principal risks and uncertainties 275
Share capital and control 288
Dividends 290
Financial calendar 2022 291
Annual General Meeting 2022 291
Tax information for shareholders 292
Shareholder services and contacts 294
US law and regulation 296
Group companies 299
Glossary of terms 311
GSK Annual Report 2021 257
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
informationFinancial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2021.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2021 Q4 2021 Q3 2021 Q2 2021 Q1 2021
Reported Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,729 4 10 5,221 20 25 4,397 5 10 4,229 3 12 3,882 (12) (8)
Vaccines 6,778 (3) 2 1,809 (10) (7) 2,174 7 13 1,571 39 49 1,224 (32) (30)
Consumer Healthcare 9,607 (4) – 2,497 6 10 2,506 3 8 2,292 (4) 3 2,312 (19) (16)
Total turnover 34,114 – 5 9,527 9 13 9,077 5 10 8,092 6 15 7,418 (18) (15)
Cost of sales (11,603) (1) 2 (3,680) 16 19 (2,889) - 3 (2,554) 4 9 (2,480) (22) (21)
Selling, general and administration (10,975) (4) – (3,260) 3 6 (2,646) (1) 4 (2,642) (2) 3 (2,427) (17) (15)
Research and development (5,278) 4 7 (1,448) (2) 1 (1,490) 31 34 (1,222) (6) – (1,118) (6) (3)
Royalty income 419 32 32 135 48 46 116 36 40 77 3 – 91 36 39
Other operating income/(expense) (476) (379) (230) (76) 209
Operating profit 6,201 (20) (9) 895 (16) 1 1,938 4 15 1,675 (41) (30) 1,693 (16) (8)
Net finance costs (756) (187) (193) (185) (191)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates (36) – – (36) _
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 33 (2) 3 16 16
Profit before taxation 5,442 (22) (10) 706 (14) 8 1,748 5 16 1,470 (44) (32) 1,518 (17) (9)
Taxation (346) 224 (380) 68 (258)
Tax rate % 6.4% (31.7)% 21.7% (4.6)% 17.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,096 (20) (9) 930 11 30 1,368 (4) 6 1,538 (37) (26) 1,260 (25) (17)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 711 181 200 143 187
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,385 749 1,168 1,395 1,073
Basic earnings per share (pence) 87.6p (24) (13) 15.0p 10 31 23.3p (7) 3 27.9p (39) (28) 21.5p (32) (25)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 86.6p 14.7p 23.1p 27.6p 21.3p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 34,114 – 5 9,527 9 13 9,077 5 10 8,092 6 15 7,418 (18) (15)
Cost of sales (10,726) 5 8 (3,496) 25 28 (2,646) 4 7 (2,348) 4 9 (2,236) (14) (13)
Selling, general and administration (10,225) (5) (1) (2,908) (1) 2 (2,504) 1 7 (2,498) (1) 5 (2,315) (17) (15)
Research and development (4,776) 4 8 (1,365) 5 7 (1,169) 11 15 (1,165) (1) 6 (1,077) (1) 3
Royalty income 419 32 32 135 48 46 116 36 40 77 3 – 91 36 39
Operating profit 8,806 (1) 9 1,893 4 15 2,874 8 16 2,158 23 43 1,881 (30) (23)
Net finance costs (753) (186) (192) (185) (190)
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 33 (2) 3 16 16
Profit before taxation 8,086 – 11 1,705 8 20 2,685 8 16 1,989 29 50 1,707 (32) (25)
Taxation (1,415) (177) (554) (366) (318)
Tax rate % 17.5% 10.4% 20.6% 18.4% 18.6%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,671 (2) 9 1,528 13 25 2,131 3 11 1,623 32 54 1,389 (36) (29)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,006 248 296 216 246
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,665 1,280 1,835 1,407 1,143
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 113.2p (2) 9 25.6p 9 22 36.6p 3 10 28.1p 46 71 22.9p (39) (33)
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 56.
258 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 259
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record continued
Quarterly trend continued
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2021.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2021 Q4 2021 Q3 2021 Q2 2021 Q1 2021
Reported Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,729 4 10 5,221 20 25 4,397 5 10 4,229 3 12 3,882 (12) (8)
Vaccines 6,778 (3) 2 1,809 (10) (7) 2,174 7 13 1,571 39 49 1,224 (32) (30)
Consumer Healthcare 9,607 (4) – 2,497 6 10 2,506 3 8 2,292 (4) 3 2,312 (19) (16)
Total turnover 34,114 – 5 9,527 9 13 9,077 5 10 8,092 6 15 7,418 (18) (15)
Cost of sales (11,603) (1) 2 (3,680) 16 19 (2,889) - 3 (2,554) 4 9 (2,480) (22) (21)
Selling, general and administration (10,975) (4) – (3,260) 3 6 (2,646) (1) 4 (2,642) (2) 3 (2,427) (17) (15)
Research and development (5,278) 4 7 (1,448) (2) 1 (1,490) 31 34 (1,222) (6) – (1,118) (6) (3)
Royalty income 419 32 32 135 48 46 116 36 40 77 3 – 91 36 39
Other operating income/(expense) (476) (379) (230) (76) 209
Operating profit 6,201 (20) (9) 895 (16) 1 1,938 4 15 1,675 (41) (30) 1,693 (16) (8)
Net finance costs (756) (187) (193) (185) (191)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates (36) – – (36) _
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 33 (2) 3 16 16
Profit before taxation 5,442 (22) (10) 706 (14) 8 1,748 5 16 1,470 (44) (32) 1,518 (17) (9)
Taxation (346) 224 (380) 68 (258)
Tax rate % 6.4% (31.7)% 21.7% (4.6)% 17.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,096 (20) (9) 930 11 30 1,368 (4) 6 1,538 (37) (26) 1,260 (25) (17)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 711 181 200 143 187
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,385 749 1,168 1,395 1,073
Basic earnings per share (pence) 87.6p (24) (13) 15.0p 10 31 23.3p (7) 3 27.9p (39) (28) 21.5p (32) (25)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 86.6p 14.7p 23.1p 27.6p 21.3p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 34,114 – 5 9,527 9 13 9,077 5 10 8,092 6 15 7,418 (18) (15)
Cost of sales (10,726) 5 8 (3,496) 25 28 (2,646) 4 7 (2,348) 4 9 (2,236) (14) (13)
Selling, general and administration (10,225) (5) (1) (2,908) (1) 2 (2,504) 1 7 (2,498) (1) 5 (2,315) (17) (15)
Research and development (4,776) 4 8 (1,365) 5 7 (1,169) 11 15 (1,165) (1) 6 (1,077) (1) 3
Royalty income 419 32 32 135 48 46 116 36 40 77 3 – 91 36 39
Operating profit 8,806 (1) 9 1,893 4 15 2,874 8 16 2,158 23 43 1,881 (30) (23)
Net finance costs (753) (186) (192) (185) (190)
Share of after-tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 33 (2) 3 16 16
Profit before taxation 8,086 – 11 1,705 8 20 2,685 8 16 1,989 29 50 1,707 (32) (25)
Taxation (1,415) (177) (554) (366) (318)
Tax rate % 17.5% 10.4% 20.6% 18.4% 18.6%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,671 (2) 9 1,528 13 25 2,131 3 11 1,623 32 54 1,389 (36) (29)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 1,006 248 296 216 246
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,665 1,280 1,835 1,407 1,143
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 113.2p (2) 9 25.6p 9 22 36.6p 3 10 28.1p 46 71 22.9p (39) (33)
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 56.Financial record continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2021
Total US Europe International
2021 2020 Growth 2021 Growth 2021 Growth 2021 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 2,863 2,360 21 28 1,822 23 30 606 11 13 435 33 42
Anoro Ellipta 504 547 (8) (3) 278 (15) (9) 149 5 8 77 (1) 3
Trelegy Ellipta 1,217 819 49 57 854 52 62 200 19 21 163 81 92
Nucala 1,142 994 15 22 690 15 23 257 8 11 195 23 34
HIV 4,777 4,876 (2) 3 2,898 (4) 3 1,194 (2) 1 685 4 11
Dolutegravir products 4,567 4,702 (3) 2 2,774 (6) – 1,151 (1) 1 642 7 14
Tivicay 1,381 1,527 (10) (4) 763 (12) (7) 286 (22) (20) 332 15 24
Triumeq 1,882 2,306 (18) (14) 1,190 (18) (13) 452 (20) (18) 240 (15) (12)
Juluca 517 495 4 10 393 2 8 111 14 18 13 18 27
Dovato 787 374 >100 >100 428 87 99 302 >100 >100 57 >100 >100
Rukobia 45 11 >100 >100 43 >100 >100 2 >100 >100 – – –
Cabenuva 38 – >100 >100 32 – – 5 – – 1 >100 (>100)
Other 127 163 (22) (18) 49 (8) (4) 36 (28) (26) 42 (30) (23)
Immuno-inflammation 885 727 22 29 727 19 26 68 21 25 90 53 63
Benlysta 874 719 22 29 727 19 26 68 21 25 79 55 67
Oncology 489 372 31 37 274 19 26 195 43 46 20 >100 >100
Zejula 395 339 17 22 212 3 10 163 27 30 20 >100 >100
Blenrep 89 33 >100 >100 61 >100 >100 28 >100 >100 – – –
Jemperli 5 – >100 >100 2 – – 3 >100 >100 – – –
Pandemic 958 – – – 602 – – 69 – – 287 – –
Xevudy 958 – – – 602 – – 69 – – 287 – –
New and Specialty
Pharmaceuticals 9,972 8,335 20 26 6,323 19 26 2,132 9 12 1,517 45 54
Established pharmaceuticals 7,757 8,721 (11) (6) 2,119 – 6 1,802 (16) (14) 3,836 (14) (8)
Established Respiratory 4,327 4,640 (7) (2) 1,788 7 13 995 (12) (10) 1,544 (16) (10)
Arnuity Ellipta 47 45 4 11 40 8 16 – – – 7 (12) (13)
Avamys/Veramyst 298 297 – 7 – – – 65 (2) 2 233 1 8
Flixotide/Flovent 444 419 6 12 275 50 60 69 (14) (11) 100 (36) (32)
Incruse Ellipta 205 220 (7) (3) 109 (7) (2) 70 (5) (3) 26 (10) (7)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,121 1,124 – 5 488 3 9 334 4 6 299 (9) (2)
Seretide/Advair 1,357 1,535 (12) (7) 486 12 19 322 (28) (27) 549 (16) (11)
Ventolin 718 785 (9) (4) 390 (9) (3) 108 (7) (5) 220 (8) (3)
Other Respiratory 137 215 (36) (31) – – – 27 – – 110 (41) (36)
Dermatology 399 425 (6) (1) (1) >(100) >(100) 131 (6) (4) 269 (5) 2
Augmentin 426 490 (13) (7) – – – 124 (14) (12) 302 (12) (4)
Avodart 332 466 (29) (25) 1 (80) (80) 118 (25) (23) 213 (30) (25)
Imigran/Imitrex 105 118 (11) (8) 29 (31) (31) 51 – 2 25 – 8
Lamictal 478 537 (11) (6) 232 (14) (9) 112 (7) (5) 134 (9) (3)
Seroxat/Paxil 128 146 (12) (6) – – – 35 (5) (5) 93 (15) (6)
Valtrex 92 103 (11) (5) 11 (27) (20) 33 3 3 48 (14) (5)
Other 1,470 1,796 (18) (13) 59 (46) (40) 203 (39) (37) 1,208 (11) (5)
Pharmaceuticals 17,729 17,056 4 10 8,442 13 21 3,934 (4) (2) 5,353 (3) 4
260 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 261
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2020
Total US Europe International
2020 2019 Growth 2020 Growth 2020 Growth 2020 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 2,360 1,800 31 32 1,486 28 30 548 28 27 326 53 56
Anoro Ellipta 547 514 6 8 327 1 2 142 18 17 78 11 17
Trelegy Ellipta 819 518 58 59 561 47 48 168 65 65 90 >100 >100
Nucala 994 768 29 30 598 32 33 238 16 15 158 45 46
HIV 4,876 4,854 – 1 3,005 – 1 1,213 5 4 658 (5) (1)
Dolutegravir products 4,702 4,633 1 2 2,941 – 1 1,163 7 6 598 (2) 3
Tivicay 1,527 1,662 (8) (7) 871 (11) (10) 368 (7) (8) 288 (1) 5
Triumeq 2,306 2,549 (10) (9) 1,454 (10) (9) 568 (9) (10) 284 (9) (6)
Juluca 495 366 35 36 387 28 29 97 73 71 11 57 71
Dovato 374 56 >100 >100 229 >100 >100 130 >100 >100 15 >100 >100
Rukobia 11 – – – 11 – >100 – – – – – –
Cabenuva – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Other 163 221 (26) (25) 53 (20) (18) 50 (29) (27) 60 (29) (28)
Immuno-inflammation 727 613 19 20 612 14 16 56 22 20 59 84 91
Benlysta 719 613 17 19 612 14 16 56 22 20 51 59 66
Oncology 372 230 62 62 231 72 74 136 42 40 5 – –
Zejula 339 229 48 48 206 54 55 128 35 33 5 – –
Blenrep 33 – – – 25 – – 8 – – – – –
New and Specialty
Pharmaceuticals 8,335 7,497 11 12 5,334 10 12 1,953 13 12 1,048 12 16
Established pharmaceuticals 8,721 10,057 (13) (12) 2,117 (18) (17) 2,151 (10) (11) 4,453 (12) (9)
Established Respiratory 4,640 5,181 (10) (9) 1,676 (16) (15) 1,134 (2) (3) 1,830 (9) (6)
Arnuity Ellipta 45 48 (6) (6) 37 (10) (7) – – – 8 14 –
Avamys/Veramyst 297 324 (8) (6) – – – 66 (4) (4) 231 (10) (7)
Flixotide/Flovent 419 629 (33) (32) 183 (50) (50) 80 (9) (10) 156 (10) (5)
Incruse Ellipta 220 262 (16) (15) 117 (27) (27) 74 1 1 29 4 7
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,124 971 16 17 474 24 25 322 14 13 328 6 9
Seretide/Advair 1,535 1,730 (11) (10) 434 (14) (13) 449 (11) (11) 652 (10) (7)
Ventolin 785 938 (16) (14) 430 (21) (20) 116 (3) (4) 239 (12) (7)
Other Respiratory 215 279 (23) (23) 1 >100 >100 27 (4) – 187 (25) (26)
Dermatology 425 445 (4) (1) 1 (67) (67) 140 (12) (13) 284 – 6
Augmentin 490 602 (19) (15) – – – 145 (16) (16) 345 (20) (15)
Avodart 466 574 (19) (17) 5 25 25 158 (24) (25) 303 (16) (13)
Imigran/Imitrex 118 138 (14) (14) 42 (29) (29) 51 (2) (4) 25 (7) (4)
Lamictal 537 566 (5) (4) 269 (5) (5) 120 7 6 148 (13) (9)
Seroxat/Paxil 146 160 (9) (6) – – – 37 – (3) 109 (11) (7)
Valtrex 103 107 (4) (2) 15 7 7 32 3 – 56 (10) (5)
Other 1,796 2,284 (21) (20) 109 (48) (47) 334 (28) (28) 1,353 (16) (14)
Pharmaceuticals 17,056 17,554 (3) (1) 7,451 1 2 4,104 (1) (1) 5,501 (9) (5)Financial record continued
Vaccines turnover 2021
Total US Europe International
2021 2020 Growth 2021 Growth 2021 Growth 2021 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 961 1,029 (7) (2) 453 5 11 354 (1) 2 154 (36) (30)
Bexsero 650 650 – 5 253 (3) 3 328 1 4 69 5 20
Menveo 272 265 3 9 200 16 23 21 (19) (15) 51 (23) (18)
Other 39 114 (66) (65) – – – 5 (17) (17) 34 (69) (68)
Influenza 679 733 (7) (2) 456 (15) (9) 101 3 6 122 22 28
Fluarix, FluLaval 679 733 (7) (2) 456 (15) (9) 101 3 6 122 22 28
Shingles 1,721 1,989 (13) (9) 1,344 (20) (15) 281 51 54 96 (25) (23)
Shingrix 1,721 1,989 (13) (9) 1,344 (20) (15) 281 51 54 96 (25) (23)
Established vaccines 2,970 3,231 (8) (4) 977 (7) (1) 700 (13) (10) 1,293 (6) (3)
Infanrix, Pediarix 543 629 (14) (9) 303 (3) 4 116 (33) (32) 124 (14) (10)
Boostrix 521 476 9 14 270 5 12 140 – 2 111 41 44
Hepatitis 460 576 (20) (16) 269 (19) (14) 109 (22) (21) 82 (20) (17)
Rotarix 541 559 (3) 1 111 (10) (4) 118 (1) 2 312 (2) 3
Synflorix 357 402 (11) (8) – – – 45 (15) (13) 312 (11) (7)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 260 261 – 4 – – – 125 (1) 2 135 – 5
Cervarix 138 139 (1) – – – – 25 (17) (17) 113 4 5
Other 150 189 (21) (19) 24 (20) (13) 22 16 26 104 (26) (26)
Vaccines excluding pandemic 6,331 6,982 (9) (5) 3,230 (13) (7) 1,436 – 2 1,665 (10) (6)
Pandemic vaccines 447 – – – 242 – – – – – 205 – –
Pandemic adjuvant 444 – – – 242 – – – – – 202 – –
Total vaccines 6,778 6,982 (3) 2 3,472 (6) – 1,436 – 2 1,870 1 5
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
Vaccines turnover 2020
Total US Europe International
2020 2019 Growth 2020 Growth 2020 Growth 2020 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 1,029 1,018 1 3 433 1 2 356 4 3 240 (2) 4
Bexsero 650 679 (4) (2) 260 – 1 324 2 1 66 (34) (20)
Menveo 265 267 (1) 1 173 2 3 26 44 39 66 (16) (13)
Other 114 72 58 57 – – – 6 – – 108 64 62
Influenza 733 541 35 37 535 30 31 98 75 73 100 37 42
Fluarix, FluLaval 733 541 35 37 535 30 31 98 75 73 100 37 42
Shingles 1,989 1,810 10 11 1,675 – 1 186 >100 >100 128 47 49
Shingrix 1,989 1,810 10 11 1,675 – 1 186 >100 >100 128 47 49
Established vaccines 3,231 3,788 (15) (14) 1,054 (24) (24) 801 (23) (23) 1,376 1 3
Infanrix, Pediarix 629 733 (14) (13) 311 (14) (13) 174 (18) (19) 144 (10) (6)
Boostrix 476 584 (18) (18) 257 (14) (13) 140 (10) (11) 79 (39) (36)
Hepatitis 576 874 (34) (33) 333 (37) (36) 140 (39) (39) 103 (10) (6)
Rotarix 559 558 – 1 123 (12) (11) 119 6 6 317 4 5
Synflorix 402 468 (14) (14) – – – 53 (2) (2) 349 (16) (15)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 261 232 13 14 – – – 126 26 25 135 2 5
Cervarix 139 50 >100 >100 – – – 30 43 43 109 >100 >100
Other 189 289 (35) (35) 30 (55) (56) 19 (87) (87) 140 87 85
Total vaccines 6,982 7,157 (2) (1) 3,697 (5) (4) 1,441 (3) (4) 1,844 5 7
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
262 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 263
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in
the Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board.
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m £m £m
US 15,093 14,556 13,890 11,982 11,263
Europe 7,838 8,164 8,069 7,973 7,943
International 11,183 11,379 11,795 10,866 10,980
34,114 34,099 33,754 30,821 30,186
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Group turnover by segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,729 17,056 17,554 17,269 17,276
Vaccines 6,778 6,982 7,157 5,894 5,160
Consumer Healthcare 9,607 10,033 8,995 7,658 7,750
Segment turnover 34,114 34,071 33,706 30,821 30,186
Corporate and other unallocated turnover – 28 48 – –
34,114 34,099 33,754 30,821 30,186
2020 2019 2018 2017
2021 (revised) (revised) (revised) (revised)
Pharmaceuticals turnover £m £m £m £m £m
Respiratory 2,863 2,360 1,800 1,195 688
HIV 4,777 4,876 4,854 4,722 4,350
Immuno-inflammation 885 727 613 472 377
Oncology 489 372 230 – –
Pandemic 958 – – – –
New and Specialty 9,972 8,335 7,497 6,389 5,415
Established Pharmaceuticals 7,757 8,721 10,057 10,880 11,861
17,729 17,056 17,554 17,269 17,276
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Vaccines turnover £m £m £m £m £m
Meningitis 961 1,029 1,018 881 890
Influenza 679 733 541 523 488
Shingles 1,721 1,989 1,810 784 22
Established Vaccines 2,970 3,231 3,788 3,706 3,760
6,331 6,982 7,157 5,894 5,160
Pandemic Vaccines 447 – – – –
6,778 6,982 7,157 5,894 5,160
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Consumer Healthcare turnover £m £m £m £m £m
Oral health 2,732 2,753 2,673 2,496 2,466
Pain relief 2,276 2,219 1,781 1,440 1,465
Vitamins, minerals and supplements 1,512 1,506 611 103 105
Respiratory health 1,133 1,209 1,186 1,085 1,057
Digestive health and other 1,803 1,824 1,646 1,435 1,447
Sub-total 9,456 9,511 7,897 6,559 6,540
Brands divested/under review 151 522 1,098 1,099 1,210
9,607 10,033 8,995 7,658 7,750Financial record continued
Five year record continued
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Financial results – Total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,114 34,099 33,754 30,821 30,186
Operating profit 6,201 7,783 6,961 5,483 4,087
Profit before taxation 5,442 6,968 6,221 4,800 3,525
Profit after taxation 5,096 6,388 5,268 4,046 2,169
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 87.6 115.5 93.9 73.7 31.4
Diluted earnings per share 86.6 114.1 92.6 72.9 31.0
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,003 4,976 4,947 4,914 4,886
Diluted 5,065 5,038 5,016 4,971 4,941
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Financial results – Adjusted £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,114 34,099 33,754 30,821 30,186
Operating profit 8,806 8,906 8,972 8,745 8,568
Profit before taxation 8,086 8,095 8,236 8,078 7,924
Profit after taxation 6,671 6,800 6,918 6,543 6,257
pence pence pence pence pence
Adjusted earnings per share 113.2 115.9 123.9 119.4 111.8
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 25.8 35.6 56.5 134.0 83.4
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
264 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 265
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 60,429 60,184 60,201 41,139 40,474
Current assets 18,674 20,247 19,491 16,927 15,907
Total assets 79,103 80,431 79,692 58,066 56,381
Current liabilities (23,670) (22,148) (24,050) (22,491) (26,569)
Non-current liabilities (34,091) (37,475) (37,285) (31,903) (26,323)
Total liabilities (57,761) (59,623) (61,335) (54,394) (52,892)
Net assets 21,342 20,808 18,357 3,672 3,489
Shareholders’ equity 15,055 14,587 11,405 3,781 (68)
Non-controlling interests 6,287 6,221 6,952 (109) 3,557
Total equity 21,342 20,808 18,357 3,672 3,489
Number of employees
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
US 14,289 15,706 16,676 13,804 14,526
Europe 38,809 40,711 40,524 41,943 43,002
International 36,998 37,649 42,237 39,743 40,934
90,096 94,066 99,437 95,490 98,462
Manufacturing 32,141 33,848 36,925 36,527 38,245
Selling 34,846 36,391 39,184 36,351 37,374
Administration 11,014 11,730 11,249 10,768 11,307
Research and development 12,095 12,097 12,079 11,844 11,536
90,096 94,066 99,437 95,490 98,462
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number
of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are
employed and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US Dollars
for Sterling as reported by the Bank of England (4pm buying rate).
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the 4pm buying rates for each day of the year.
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Average 1.38 1.29 1.28 1.34 1.29
2022 2022 2021 2021 2021 2021
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.36 1.37 1.35 1.37 1.38 1.39
Low 1.33 1.34 1.32 1.32 1.35 1.34
The 4pm buying rate on 25 February was £1= US$1.34.Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Separation Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items costs results
31 December 2021 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,114 34,114
Cost of sales (11,603) 701 (33) 154 28 27 (10,726)
Gross profit 22,511 701 (33) 154 28 27 23,388
Selling, general and administration (10,975) 426 25 17 282 (10,225)
Research and development (5,278) 101 355 46 (4,776)
Royalty income 419 419
Other operating (expense)/income (476) 1,106 (662) 32 –
Operating profit 6,201 802 322 626 1,159 (618) 314 8,806
Net finance costs (756) 2 1 (753)
Loss on disposal of interest in associates (36) 36 –
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 5,442 802 322 628 1,159 (581) 314 8,086
Taxation (346) (159) (81) (114) (196) (470) (49) (1,415)
Tax rate 6.4% 17.5%
Profit after taxation 5,096 643 241 514 963 (1,051) 265 6,671
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 711 295 1,006
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,385 643 241 514 668 (1,051) 265 5,665
Earnings per share 87.6p 12.9p 4.8p 10.3p 13.3p (21.0)p 5.3p 113.2p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 5,003 5,003
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Separation Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items costs results
31 December 2020 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 34,099 34,099
Cost of sales (11,704) 699 31 667 116 (10,191)
Gross profit 22,395 699 31 667 116 23,908
Selling, general and administration (11,456) 1 18 659 (23) 16 68 (10,717)
Research and development (5,098) 75 214 206 (4,603)
Royalty income 318 318
Other operating (expense)/income 1,624 1,215 (2,839) –
Operating profit 7,783 775 263 1,532 1,308 (2,823) 68 8,906
Net finance costs (848) 2 2 (844)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 33 33
Profit before taxation 6,968 775 263 1,534 1,308 (2,821) 68 8,095
Taxation (580) (150) (47) (292) (229) 17 (14) (1,295)
Tax rate 8.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 6,388 625 216 1,242 1,079 (2,804) 54 6,800
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 639 392 1,031
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,749 625 216 1,242 687 (2,804) 54 5,769
Earnings per share 115.5p 12.6p 4.4p 25.0p 13.8p (56.5)p 1.1p 115.9p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,976 4,976
266 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 267
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2019 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 33,754 33,754
Cost of sales (11,863) 713 30 658 383 (10,079)
Gross profit 21,891 713 30 658 383 23,675
Selling, general and administration (11,402) 4 332 104 247 (10,715)
Research and development (4,568) 64 49 114 2 (4,339)
Royalty income 351 351
Other operating (expense)/income 689 1 (142) (548) –
Operating profit 6,961 777 83 1,105 345 (299) 8,972
Net finance costs (814) 5 (1) (810)
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 74 74
Profit before taxation 6,221 777 83 1,110 345 (300) 8,236
Taxation (953) (156) (17) (208) (124) 140 (1,318)
Tax rate 15.3% 16.0%
Profit after taxation 5,268 621 66 902 221 (160) 6,918
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 623 164 787
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,645 621 66 902 57 (160) 6,131
Earnings per share 93.9p 12.6p 1.3p 18.2p 1.2p (3.3)p 123.9p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,947 4,947
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items results
31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,821 30,821
Cost of sales (10,241) 536 69 443 15 (9,178)
Gross profit 20,580 536 69 443 15 21,643
Selling, general and administration (9,915) 2 315 98 38 (9,462)
Research and development (3,893) 44 45 49 20 (3,735)
Royalty income 299 299
Other operating (expense)/income (1,588) 2 1,864 (278) –
Operating profit 5,483 580 116 809 1,977 (220) 8,745
Net finance costs (717) 4 (3) 18 (698)
Profit on disposal of associates 3 (3) –
Share of after-tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 31
Profit before taxation 4,800 580 116 813 1,974 (205) 8,078
Taxation (754) (109) (19) (170) (239) (244) (1,535)
Tax rate 15.7% 19.0%
Profit after taxation 4,046 471 97 643 1,735 (449) 6,543
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 251 674
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 471 97 643 1,484 (449) 5,869
Earnings per share 73.7p 9.6p 2.0p 13.1p 30.2p (9.2)p 119.4p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,914 4,914Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction- legal and US tax Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring related other items reform results
31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,186 30,186
Cost of sales (10,342) 546 400 545 80 (8,771)
Gross profit 19,844 546 400 545 80 21,415
Selling, general and administration (9,672) 248 83 (9,341)
Research and development (4,476) 45 288 263 18 (3,862)
Royalty income 356 356
Other operating (expense)/income (1,965) 1,519 (220) 666 –
Operating profit 4,087 591 688 1,056 1,599 (119) 666 8,568
Net finance costs (669) 4 8 (657)
Profit on disposal of associates 94 (94) –
Share of after-tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 13 13
Profit before taxation 3,525 591 688 1,060 1,599 (205) 666 7,924
Taxation (1,356) (134) (176) (209) (619) (251) 1,078 (1,667)
Tax rate 38.5% 21.0%
Profit after taxation 2,169 457 512 851 980 (456) 1,744 6,257
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 42 114 793
Profit attributable to shareholders 1,532 457 512 851 938 (456) 1,630 5,464
Earnings per share 31.4p 9.4p 10.5p 17.4p 19.2p (9.4)p 33.3p 111.8p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,886 4,886
268 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 269
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key † I n-license or other alliance relationship with third party EUA Emergency Use Authorisation
^ V iiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with Phase I E valuation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
GSK, Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, in volunteers
is responsible for developing and delivering HIV medicines. Phase II D etermination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy,
BLA Biological Licence Application conducted in a small number of patients
MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe) Phase III L arge comparative study (compound versus placebo
NDA New Drug Application (US) and/or established treatment) in patients to establish
A Approved clinical benefit and safety
S Submitted
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Oncology
Jemperli Anti-Programmed Cell Death protein 1 receptor 2L dMMR/MSI-H endometrial cancer Approved A: Jun21 A: Apr21
(dostarlimab)† (PD-1) antibody 2L dMMR solid tumours Approved A: Aug21
1L endometrial cancer III
1L endometrial cancer combination with niraparib III
Non-small cell lung cancer1 II
Zejula Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 1/2 inhibitor 1L maintenance ovarian cancer combination III
(niraparib)† with dostarlimab
1L maintenance non small cell lung cancer III
(NSCLC) combination with pembrolizumab
Pre-metastatic, select biomarker population III
Breast Cancer
Blenrep ADC targeting B-cell maturation antigen 3L multiple myeloma III
(belantamab 2L+ multiple myeloma combination with Pomalyst III
mafodotin)† and dexamethasone
2L+ multiple myeloma combination with Velcade III
and dexamethasone
Multiple myeloma in combination with anti-cancer II
treatments (platform study)
1L multiple myeloma combination with Velcade, I
Revlimid and dexamethasone
letetresgene- Engineered TCR T-cells targeting NY-ESO-1 2L+ synovial sarcoma and myxoid/round cell II (pivotal)
autoleucel liposarcoma
(3377794)† 2L+ non-small cell lung cancer II
cobolimab Anti-T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-3 Non-small cell lung cancer combination with II
(4069889)† (TIM-3) antibody Jemperli (dostarlimab) and docetaxel
4074386† Anti-lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) Cancer I
antibody
3745417 STING cytosolic DNA pathway agonist Cancer I
6097608 CD96 antagonist Cancer I
3901961† Engineered TCR T-cells, co-expressing the CD8a Cancer I
cell surface receptor, targeting NY-ESO-1
3845097† Engineered TCR T-cells, co-expressing the Cancer I
dnTGF-βRII cell surface receptor, targeting
NY-ESO-1
4362676† Methionine adenosyltransferase 2A (MAT2A) Cancer I
inhibitor
4428859 TIGIT antagonist Cancer I
(EOS-448)†
Footnotes
1 non-registrational
2 transition activities underway to enable further progression by partner
3 GSK has exclusive option to co-develop post Ph2
4 Ph3 trial in patients with progranulin gene mutation
5 GSK is contributing pandemic adjuvant to COVID-19 vaccines collaborations
6 Submitted in Canada
7 Enrolment and vaccination stopped in February 2022. Further analysis to better understand safety data from these trials is ongoingPipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
HIV^
Apretude HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis Approved A: Dec21
(cabotegravir) (long-acting)
HIV (400 mg/ml formulation) I
3640254 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection II
3810109† HIV broadly neutralising antibody HIV infection II
3739937 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection I
4004280 HIV capsid protein inhibitor HIV infection I
Infectious Diseases
Xevudy (sotrovimab)† Anti-spike protein antibody COVID-19 Approved A:Dec21 EUA:
May21
gepotidacin† Triazaacenaphthylene bacterial type II Uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) and III
topoisomerase inhibitor gonorrhea (GC)
3036656† Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor Tuberculosis II
bepirovirsen † HBV antisense Hepatitis B II
3882347† FimH antagonist Uncomplicated urinary tract infection (uUTI) I
3186899† 2 CRK-12 inhibitor Visceral leishmaniasis I
3494245† Proteasome inhibitor Visceral leishmaniasis I
2556286† Mtb cholesterol dependent inhibitor Tuberculosis I
BVL-GSK098† Ethionamide booster Tuberculosis I
4182137 (VIR-7832)† Anti-spike protein Antibody COVID-19 I
VIR-2482† 3 Neutralizing monoclonal antibody Influenza I
3923868 PI4K beta inhibitor Viral COPD exacerbations I
Priorix (MMR vaccine) Live attenuated Measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis (US) Registration S: Jun21
Menveo vaccine Conjugated-liquid formulation Meningococcal A,C,W and Y disease prophylaxis Registration S: Sep21
in adolescents
Rotarix vaccine Live attenuated, PCV (Porcine circovirus) Rotavirus prophylaxis (US) Registration S Dec21
free
Bexsero vaccine Recombinant protein Meningococcal B disease prophylaxis in infants (US) III
Men ABCWY vaccine Recombinant protein – conjugated Meningococcal A,B,C,W and Y disease prophylaxis III
in adolescents
RSV vaccine Recombinant protein Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in pregnant III
woman population to prevent respiratory syncitial virus
lower respiratory tract illness in infants during first
Months of life by transfer of maternal antibodies†7
Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older adult III
population†
COVID-19 plant- Recombinant protein-adjuvanted vaccine COVID-19 Registration6
derived virus-like
particles vaccine
(Medicago) † 5
COVID-19 vaccine Recombinant protein-adjuvanted vaccine COVID-19 III
(Sanofi) † 5
COVID-19 vaccine Recombinant protein nanoparticle- COVID-19 III
(SK Bioscience) † 5 adjuvanted vaccine
SAM vaccine Self-Amplifying mRNA vaccine COVID-19 I
(COVID-19 model)
Footnotes
1 non-registrational
2 transition activities underway to enable further progression by partner
3 GSK has exclusive option to co-develop post Ph2
4 Ph3 trial in patients with progranulin gene mutation
5 GSK is contributing pandemic adjuvant to COVID-19 vaccines collaborations
6 Submitted in Canada
7 Enrolment and vaccination stopped in February 2022. Further analysis to better understand safety data from these trials is ongoing
270 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 271
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Mechanism of Action/Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Infectious Diseases continued
Malaria next Recombinant protein – adjuvanted Malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
generation vaccine† vaccine
(fractional dose)
Shigella vaccine† Bioconjugated (tetravalent) vaccine Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis II
Therapeutic HBV Prime-boost with viral vector vaccines Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B infections – aims II
vaccine† co- or sequentially administrated with at functional cure by controlling and resolving the
adjuvanted recombinant proteins infection and reducing the need for further treatment
S. aureus vaccine† Recombinant protein – bioconjugated – Active immunization for the prevention of primary II
adjuvanted vaccine and recurrent Soft-Skin-Tissue Infections caused
by S. aureus
Men ABCWY Recombinant protein – conjugated Meningococcal A, B, C, W,Y disease prophylaxis in II
vaccine (2nd Gen) vaccine adolescents and infants
Varicella New Strain Live attenuated vaccine Active immunization for the prevention of varicella in II
individuals from 12 months of age and older
C. difficile vaccine† Recombinant protein – adjuvanted vaccine Active immunization for the prevention of the primary I
C. Diff diseases and for prevention of recurrences
SAM vaccine Self-Amplifying mRNA Rabies prophylaxis I
(Rabies model)
Klebsiella Recombinant protein – bioconjugated – Klebsiella pneumoniae prophylaxis I
pneumoniae adjuvanted vaccine
CMV Recombinant subunit – adjuvanted Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection prophylaxis in I
vaccine females 16-49 years of age
Immunology and Respiratory
Nucala Interleukin 5 (IL5) antagonist Hypereosinophilic syndrome Approved A: Nov21
(mepolizumab) Nasal polyposis Approved A: Nov21 A: Jul21
EGPA Approved A: Nov21
COPD III
otilimab† Granulocyte macrophage colony- Rheumatoid arthritis III
stimulating factor inhibitor
depemokimab† Interleukin 5 (IL5) antagonist (long-acting) Asthma III
4527223 (AL001)† Anti-Sortilin monoclonal antibody Frontotemporal dementia (FTD)4 III
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) II
3858279† Anti-CCL17 antibody Osteoarthritis pain I
3915393† Transglutaminase 2 (TG2) inhibitor Celiac disease I
4527226 (AL101)† Anti-sortilin monoclonal antibody Neurodegenerative disease I
1070806 Anti-IL18 antibody Atopic dermatitis I
3888130† Anti-IL7 antibody Multiple sclerosis (MS) I
4532990† HSD17B13 silencer Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) I
Opportunity Driven
daprodustat HIF Prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor Anaemia of chronic kidney disease III (RoW)
linerixibat Ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) inhibitor Cholestatic pruritus in PBC (primary biliary cholangitis) III
2798745† TRPV4 channel blocker Diabetic macular edema (DME) I
3884464† Novel mechanism Heart failure I
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.
Footnotes
1 non-registrational
2 transition activities underway to enable further progression by partner
3 GSK has exclusive option to co-develop post Ph2
4 Ph3 trial in patients with progranulin gene mutation
5 GSK is contributing pandemic adjuvant to COVID-19 vaccines collaborations
6 Submitted in Canada
7 Enrolment and vaccination stopped in February 2022. Further analysis to better understand safety data from these trials is ongoingPipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates1
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Respiratory
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Stiolto Respimat, 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Utibron/Ultibro (NCE) (NCE)
Breezhaler, 2027-2030 2022-2026
Duaklir Genuair (device) (device)
Bevespi Aerosphere,
Brimica Genuair
Arnuity Ellipta fluticasone furoate asthma Beclazone, Pulmicort, 2021 2023
Budesonide Gx, (NCE) (NCE)
Asmanex, Alvesco 2027-2030 2022-2026
(device) (device)
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Dymista, Xhance, Nasonex, expired 2023
Fluticasone Gx
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Beclazone, Pulmicort, expired expired
Budesonide Gx, (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
Asmanex, Alvesco 2023-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Incruse Ellipta umeclidinium bromide COPD Spiriva Handihaler/ 2027 2029
Respimat, Yupelri, (NCE) (NCE)
Braltus, Seebri 2027-2030 2022-2026
Breezhaler, Bretaris (device) (device)
Genuair
Nucala mepolizumab severe eosinophilic asthma, EGPA Xolair, Cinqair, expired2 expired2
hypereosinophilic syndrome, chronic Fasenra, Dupixent
rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps
Relvar/Breo Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2025 2027
vilanterol trifenatate Budesonide/Formetrol Gx (NCE) (NCE)
Sirdupla, Dulera 2027-2030 2022-2026
(device) (device)
Seretide/Advair salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, expired expired
fluticasone propionate Budesonide/Formetrol Gx (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
Sirdupla, Dulera 2023-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Trelegy Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ COPD Trimbow, 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Breztri Aerosphere, (NCE) (NCE)
umeclidinium bromide Trixeo Aerosphere, 2027-2030 2022-2026
Enerzair Breezhaler (device) (device)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2023-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Xevudy sotrovimab Early treatment of COVID-19 REGEN-COV, 2041 NA
bamlanivimab/etesevimab, (NBE)
Evusheld
Anti-virals
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, shingles Prevymis, Valacyclovir Gx, expired expired
Valcyte
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Vimpat, Trokendi XR, expired expired
Inovelon
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various anxiety Trintellix, Aplenzin Viibryd, expired expired
disorders Zoloft
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Harnal, Vesomni, Urorec expired expired
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
1 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU (including the UK) and patent term extensions granted in the US.
2 Data exclusivity expires 2026 (EU) and 2027 (US).
272 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 273
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates1
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Oncology
Zejula niraparib ovarian cancer Lynparza, Rubraca 2031 2028
(NCE) (NCE)
Blenrep belantamab mafodotin relapsed/refractory multiple Sarclisa, Xpovio 2032 2032
myeloma
Jemperli dostarlimab dMMR recurrent or advanced Keytruda 2034 2034
endometrial cancer, solid tumours (NBE) (NBE)
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta, Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus, Lupkynis, Saphnelo 2025 2026
(SC and IV) lupus nephritis
HIV
Apretude Cabotegravir HIV prevention Descovy, Truvada 2026 2026
(NCE) (NCE)
Cabenuva/Vocabria Cabotegravir, rilpivirine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2026 2026
+ Rekambys Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Rukobia Fostemsavir HIV/AIDS Trogarzo 2025 2025
(NCE) (NCE)
Dovato Dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Juluca Dolutegravir, rilpivirine HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Triumeq Dolutegravir, lamivudine and HIV/AIDS Descovy, Genvoya, 2027 2029
abacavir Odefsey, Biktarvy (NCE) (NCE)
Tivicay Dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 2027 2029
Symtuza, Reyataz, (NCE) (NCE)
Biktarvy
Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates2
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Bexsero meningococcal group-B vaccine Meningitis group B prevention Trumenba 2027 2028
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular diphtheria, tetanus, acellular Adacel expired expired
pertussis Pertussis booster vaccination
Infanrix Hexa/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Prophylaxis against diphtheria, Pentacel, Pediacel, expired expired
polio, hepatitis B, Haemophilus tetanus, pertussis, polio, Pentaxim, Pentavac,
influenzae type B (EU) hepatitis B, Haemophilus Hexaxim, Hexyon
influenzae type B (EU) Vaxelis
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2028 2022
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Intenza, Flumist QIV, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Vaxigrip QIV,
and 2 subtype B) Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Fluzone, Influvac,
and 2 subtype B) Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Menveo meningococcal group A, C, W- Meningitis group A, C, W-135 Nimenrix, Menactra 2025 2025
135 and Y conjugate vaccine and Y prophylaxis
Priorix, Priorix Tetraa,b live attenuated measles, mumps, measles, mumps, rubella and MMR II (M-M-RVaxPro) expired expired
Varilrixb rubella and varicella vaccine chickenpox prophylaxis Proquad, Varivax
Rotarix Human rotavirus RIX4414 strain Rotavirus prophylaxis Rotateq 2022 2026
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal Prophylaxis against invasive Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2026
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia,
acute otitis media
Shingrix zoster vaccine herpes zoster Zostavax 2029 2031
recombinant, adjuvanted (shingles)
1 See Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU (including the UK), and patent term extensions granted in the US.
a Related compounds/indications are measles, mumps and rubella vaccine/prophylaxisb.
b Related compound is varicella vaccine.Pipeline, products and competition continued
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Oral health
Sensodyne, toothpastes, toothbrushes, relief of dentinal hypersensitivity. global Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief,
Pronamel mouth rinse Pronamel additionally protects Colgate-Palmolive
against acid erosion Elmex, Colgate-Palmolive
Oral B, Procter & Gamble
parodontax/ toothpaste, daily/medicated helps stop and prevent global Colgate Total Gum Health,
Corsodyl mouthwash, gel and spray bleeding gums, treats and Colgate-Palmolive
prevents gingivitis Oral B Gum & Enamel Repair,
Crest Gum Detoxify, Procter & Gamble
Polident, denture adhesive, denture improve retention and comfort global Fixodent and Kukident,
Poligrip, cleanser, wipes of dentures, cleans dentures Procter & Gamble,
Corega Steradent, Reckitt Benckiser
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes aids prevention of dental cavities, global Colgate, Colgate-Palmolive
mouthwashes maintains healthy teeth, gums Crest, Procter & Gamble
and fresh breath Oral-B, Procter & Gamble
Pain relief
Panadol tablets, caplets, infant paracetamol-based treatment for global (except US) Aspirin, Bayer
syrup headache, joint pain, fever, cold Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
symptoms Nurofen, Reckitt Benckiser
Voltaren topical gel, diclofenac non-steroidal, diclofenac based global Salonpas, Hisamitsu
tablets and patches anti-inflammatory Aspirin, Bayer
Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Nurofen, Reckitt Benckiser
Icy Hot, Sanofi
Advil tablets, caplets, gel caplets, ibuprofen based treatment for US, Canada, Brazil, Tylenol, Tylenol PM, Tylenol Children’s
non-respiratory liquid filled suspension, headache, toothache, backache, Colombia, Mexico Motrin, Motrin Children’s, Johnson &
range drops (children’s) menstrual cramps, muscular Johnson Aleve, Aleve PM, Bayer
pains, minor pain of arthritis
Vitamins, minerals and supplements
Centrum tablets, gummies, vitamin supplement global Nutralite, Infinitus Cheong-Kwan-Jung,
capsules, chewables By-Health, Nature Made, Herbalife, Swisse
Caltrate tablets, gummies, calcium supplement global Citracal, Bayer, OS-Cal, Nature Made and
soft chews private label
Emergen-C powder, gummies immune support dietary US, Canada Airborne, Reckitt Benckiser
supplement Zicam, Church & Dwight
Nature made, Pharmavite
Sambucol, Healthcare Brands International
Ester-C, American Health
Respiratory health
Otrivin nasal spray nasal decongestant Germany, Netherlands, Afrin, Bayer, Nasivin, Proctor & Gamble,
Norway, Russia, Sweden Tyzine, Johnson & Johnson
Theraflu hot liquids, tablets, syrups cold and flu relief Russia, Poland, US Tylenol Cold & Flu, Johnson & Johnson
Mucinex, Reckitt Benckiser
Lemsip, Reckitt Benckiser
Advil Respiratory tablets allergy relief and cold & flu Tylenol Cold & Flu, Johnson & Johnson,
Cold and Flu, Advil relief Lemsip, Mucinex, Reckit Benckiser
Respiratory Allergy
Flixonase/Flonase nasal spray, tablets allergy relief US, China, UK, Ireland Claritin, Bayer, Allegra, Sanofi
Piriton Zyrtec, Johnson & Johnson
Robitussin syrup, tablets cough/cold US, Canada, Singapore, Mucinex, Reckitt Benckiser
Philippines, Australia Dimetapp, Foundation Consumer
Healthcare
Digestive health and other
Nexium 24HR capsules, clear minis, treatment of frequent heartburn US, Canada, Australia Prilosec, Prevacid
tablets (two or more days a week) in adults
(18 years and older)
Zovirax topical cream and lip care to treat and prevent global Compeed, Johnson & Johnson
Abreva non-medicated patch the onset of cold sores Carmex, Carma Labs
Blistex, Blistex Incorporated
retail own label
ChapStick lip balm protect, moisturise, prevent and global Blistex, Burt’s Bees, Carmex, Carma Labs,
soothe chapped lips EOS, Nivea, Beiersdorf, Vaseline, Unilever
ENO effervescent immediate relief antacid global (except US) Estomazil, Hypermarca, Gelusil
Tums chewable tablets immediate relief antacid US Alka-Seltzer, Bayer
Gaviscon, Reckitt Benckiser
Rolaids, Sanofi
Nicorette (US), lozenges, gum and treatment of nicotine withdrawal global Nicorette, Johnson & Johnson
NicoDerm, Nicotinell trans-dermal patches as an aid to smoking reduction NiQuitin, Perrigo
(ex. Australia) and cessation
274 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 275
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties
We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties relevant Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and
to GSK’s business, financial condition and operations that may government investigations, including product liability litigation,
affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
These are the risks that we believe could cause our actual Litigation and government investigations, and the related
results to differ materially from expected and historical results. provisions we may make for unfavourable outcomes and
increases in related costs such as insurance premiums,
Operating in the pharmaceutical sector carries various inherent
could also materially and adversely affect our financial results.
risks and uncertainties that may affect our business.
More detail on the status and various uncertainties in our
We must comply with a broad range of laws and regulations
significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set
which apply to the research and development, manufacturing,
out in Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.
testing, approval, distribution, sales, and marketing of
pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare products. More details regarding our risk management framework and
These affect the cost of product development, the time required how we identify our principal risks can be found on pages
to reach the market and the likelihood of doing so successfully 46 to 48.
on an uninterrupted basis.
UK regulations require a description of the principal risks and
As rules and regulations change, government interpretation uncertainties and explanation for how these are being managed
evolves, and our business activities develop, the nature of a or mitigated. Below is a description of each of our principal risks
particular risk may also alter. Changes to regulatory regimes with a summary of the activities that we take to manage each
may be substantial. Any alteration in, and failure to comply with, risk across our businesses. They are not listed in order of
applicable laws and regulations could materially and adversely significance and consistent with the principal risks detailed
affect our financial results. on pages 47 to 48.
Patient safety
Risk definition We balance routine pharmacovigilance activities against a
Potential failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or variety of business change initiatives. While supporting our
report human safety information (HSI), including adverse events current product portfolio, we are optimising how we perform
from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in pharmacovigilance so we are prepared to deliver our future
a timely manner. strategy, including an increased focus on oncology, vaccines
and specialty medicines and the successful separation of the
Risk impact Consumer Healthcare business in 2022.
GSK has zero tolerance for an unfavourable benefit-to-risk ratio
We collect information on the safety and efficacy of our
for patients who use our products. We collect, review, follow up
products in humans during clinical development and gain more
and report human safety information from all potential sources,
comprehensive information on real-world use once our products
and use this to conduct robust and timely safety signal
are on the market. In addition to our own safety surveillance
detection and take all appropriate measures to safeguard
activities, external parties analyse publicly-available clinical trial
patients and consumers. If we do not effectively manage risks
results or other data, while new external initiatives use real-world
to our patient safety activities, the most serious repercussion
evidence from sources which are not accessible to GSK, but
could be harm to patients. If we are not compliant with all
may be used by regulatory agencies to supplement and validate
pharmacovigilance (or ‘drug safety’) regulations globally, the evidence we use to support the safety and efficacy of our
consequences could include inspection findings, regulatory
products.
scrutiny, civil or criminal sanctions and either temporary or
permanent loss of product marketing authorisation. Ineffective Extensive news and social media coverage of the safety and
management of patient safety risks could also lead to efficacy of COVID vaccines and therapies has increased the
reputational damage, loss of trust by patients and healthcare public’s recognition of the importance of pharmacovigilance
providers, product-related litigation, and loss of shareholder in the drug development process and in the product marketing
confidence. phase, but a rise in misinformation has also led to distrust and
vaccine hesitancy. This environment could undermine regulatory,
Context governmental, and public trust in medicines for treating
We are fully accountable for safeguarding patients, and our COVID-19, which could negatively influence healthcare
licence to operate depends on our compliance with increasingly decisions for other diseases, leading to reputational damage
complex and variable global regulatory requirements. These or product liability lawsuits.
include not only pharmacovigilance regulations, but also
stringent privacy protections and information security
considerations. Our compliance depends on employees
and third parties acting on our behalf managing human
safety information in accordance with our internal processes.Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Patient safety continued
Mitigating activities Any actions are discussed beforehand with regulatory
Our Chief Medical Officer is accountable for the Patient Safety authorities, and can include updating the prescribing information,
enterprise risk and human safety matters, in collaboration with communicating with healthcare providers, restricting product
the Head of Global Safety. A cross-enterprise safety governance prescribing/availability to help assure safe use, and carrying out
board oversees implementation of our control framework, further clinical trials. In certain cases, it may be appropriate to
including risk management. Our Global Safety Board ensures stop clinical trials or to withdraw a product (or a specific batch)
that we address human safety proactively throughout a product’s from the market.
lifecycle. Our global policy on management of human safety In 2021, we reinforced requirements for human safety
information requires that all employees immediately report issues information management across GSK through a range of
relating to the safety of our products. Our Third-Party Oversight communication efforts including improved internal mechanisms
framework ensures that third parties who may encounter human for adverse event reporting. We also launched an initiative to
safety information are identified and trained appropriately. We automate adverse event case intake, processing, and reporting.
manage safety information for all products and from all sources We consolidated governance of pharmacovigilance process-
in compliance with global regulations. This information allows us related activities from two boards into a single governance
to detect safety signals for our products and take timely action forum, and we launched a pilot to optimise delivery and oversight
on information that changes a product’s risk/benefit profile. of Patient Safety activities globally. We will target Core Patient
Safety processes for simplification and/or optimisation in 2021
and 2022.
Product quality
Risk definition We are increasingly using new technology to enhance the
Failure by GSK, its contractors or suppliers to ensure: manufacture and testing of our products. For example, we
use new electronic documentation systems and advanced
– Appropriate controls and governance of quality in product
laboratory information management tools.
development;
Significant changes are taking place in GSK as we implement
– Compliance with good manufacturing practice or good
our new strategy and structure. Our quality organisations
distribution practice regulations in commercial or clinical trials
assess these changes to make sure our quality procedures and
manufacture and distribution activities;
governance can facilitate the strategy, while also ensuring that
– Compliance with the terms of GSK product licences and no unintended consequences increase our product quality risk.
supporting regulatory activities. The industry is experiencing an increased regulatory on-site
inspection presence - resumed since the onset of the pandemic
Risk impact
and we are taking steps to ensure our inspection readiness.
A failure to ensure product quality could have far-reaching
implications for patient and consumer safety, cause product Mitigating activities
launch delays, drug shortages or product recalls, and have We align an extensive global network of quality and compliance
regulatory, legal, and financial consequences. These could professionals, from site-level to senior management with each
materially and adversely affect GSK’s reputation and financial business unit to provide oversight and assist with the delivery
results. of quality performance and operational compliance. We deliver
this management oversight through a hierarchy of quality
Context
councils, an independent chief product quality officer and a
The external environment for product quality remains global product quality office that oversees product quality risk
challenging, affected by misinformation fuelling vaccine across the company.
hesitancy, and increased cyber-attacks and data breaches
We have developed and implemented a single quality
across the industry. Cyber-attacks remain a key risk to the
management system that defines the quality standards and
integrity of product quality data and its audit trail.
systems for our businesses associated with pharmaceutical,
We are prepared to meet the 2021 European Medicines vaccine and consumer healthcare products, and for clinical
Agency (EMA) requirements for licensing of Medical Devices trial materials. This system has a broad scope and is applicable
and continue to prepare for the in Vitro Diagnostic Medical throughout the product lifecycle, from R&D to mature
Device Regulation which becomes effective May 2022. We commercial supply. A consolidation of regulatory requirements
continue to plan for the implementation of the New Annex 1 from markets across the world augments this system, which
guidance for the manufacture of Sterile Medicinal products in means it meets external expectations for product quality in the
the first half of 2022. markets we supply. Our system is based on the internationally
recognised principles from the ICH Q10 pharmaceutical quality
system framework.
276 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 277
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Product quality continued
We routinely update our quality management system (QMS) so Our established complaint process ensures we respond
it keeps pace with the evolving external regulatory environment appropriately to product quality issues raised by patients and
and new scientific understanding of our products and customers. Independent functions review and triage allegations
processes. We have also made our policies and procedures of noncompliance or misconduct received through formal
simpler to understand and implement and adopted innovative and informal ‘Speak Up’ channels. Global disciplinary and
tools to make them more user-friendly. We regularly train staff enforcement procedures apply to any breaches of our
in regulatory expectations and learnings from inspections and standards, and are initiated, as appropriate, following
existing procedures so they can maintain Current Good investigations. We use key risk indicators to support risk
Manufacturing Practice standards. management activities and provide GSK’s Leadership Team
and Risk Oversight and Compliance Council with an
We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and
integrated assessment of product quality performance.
managing third party suppliers that provide materials used in our
finished products. We expect contract manufacturers that make We have completed the initial review of manufacturing
our products to comply with GSK standards and regularly processes for all products to identify any potential risks
conduct audits to provide us with assurance that they do. associated with nitrosamine impurities. We completed the
work in accordance with Health Authority regulatory timelines.
We have product incident committee processes in place to
We are continuing our product evaluations and will take any
investigate product issues and make recommendations on
necessary risk mitigation steps in 2022.
remediation activities including, where necessary, the recall of
products to protect patients and consumers.
Financial controls and reporting
Risk definition Our Treasury group deals daily in high value transactions, mostly
Failure to comply with current tax laws or incurring significant foreign exchange, and cash management transactions. These
losses due to treasury activities; failure to report accurate transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk.
financial information in compliance with accounting standards The Group’s effective tax rate reflects the locations of our
and applicable legislation. activities and the value they generate, which determine the
jurisdictions in which profits arise and the applicable tax rates.
Risk impact
These may be higher or lower than the UK statutory rate and
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and
may reflect regimes that encourage innovation and investment
disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income
in R&D by providing tax incentives which, if changed, could
and expenses, could expose GSK to litigation and regulatory
affect GSK’s tax rate. In addition, the worldwide nature of
action and could materially and adversely affect our financial
our operations means that our cross-border supply routes,
results. In the current global pandemic, there can be significant
necessary to ensure supplies of medicines, can result in
changes at short notice. Failure to comply with changes in the
conflicting claims from tax authorities as to the profits to be
substance or application of the laws governing transfer pricing,
taxed in individual countries. This can lead to double taxation,
dividends, tax credits and intellectual property could also
with profits taxed in more than one country. The complexity of
materially and adversely affect our financial results.
tax regulations also means that we may occasionally disagree
Inconsistent application of treasury policies, transactional or with tax authorities on the technical interpretation of a particular
settlement errors, or counterparty defaults could lead to area of tax law. The tax charge included in our financial
significant losses. statements is our best estimate of tax liability pending any
audits by tax authorities.
Context
We expect there to be a continued focus on tax reform, driven
We are required by the laws of various jurisdictions to publicly
by initiatives by the OECD and the EC to address the tax
disclose our financial results and events that could materially
challenges arising from digitalisation of the economy. Together
affect the Group’s financial results. Regulators routinely review
with domestic initiatives around the world, these may result in
the financial statements of listed companies for compliance with
significant changes to established tax principles and an
new, revised, or existing accounting and regulatory
increase in tax authority disputes. Regardless of their merit or
requirements. We believe that we comply with the appropriate
outcomes, these may be costly, divert management attention
regulatory requirements concerning our financial statements
and adversely impact our reputation and relationship with key
and the disclosure of material information, including any
stakeholders.
transactions relating to business restructuring such as
acquisitions and divestitures. However, should we be subject to
an investigation into potential non-compliance with accounting
and disclosure requirements, this could lead to restatements of
previously reported results and significant penalties.Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Financial controls and reporting continued
Mitigating activities Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits approved
Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional by the Board for both credit rating and individual counterparties.
management, before being reviewed by GSK’s Group Financial The Middle Office within Treasury monitor the management of
Controller and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our counterparty risk in line with agreed policy with oversight from
Financial Controller and CFO to assess the evolution of the a corporate compliance officer, operating independently of
business over time, and to evaluate its performance to plan. Treasury. Further details on mitigation of Treasury risks can
Significant judgements are reviewed and confirmed by senior be found on pages 228 to 244.
management. We integrate technical or organisational We manage tax risk through robust internal policies, processes,
transformation, newly acquired activities and external risks, training, and compliance programmes. We maintain open and
such as the COVID-19 pandemic, into our risk assessments, constructive relationships with tax authorities worldwide. We
and apply appropriate controls and reviews. monitor government debate on tax policy in our key jurisdictions,
We maintain a control environment designed to identify material so that we can understand any potential future changes in tax
errors in financial reporting and disclosure. The design and law and share an informed point of view. Where relevant, we
operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls are provide pragmatic and constructive business input to tax policy
regularly reviewed by management and tested by external third makers, either directly or through industry trade bodies. This
parties. A minimum standard control set is in place for all includes advocating reform to support economic growth and
finance locations, irrespective of size, which is reviewed by job creation, as well as the needs of our patients and other key
management and monitored independently. This gives us stakeholders. We submit significant tax decisions to our Tax
assurance that controls over key financial reporting and Governance Board, which meets quarterly comprised of senior
disclosure processes are operating effectively. Our Global GSK Finance colleagues.
Finance Risk Management and Controls (FRMC) group Our tax affairs are managed on a global basis by a team of tax
provides extra support during significant transformations, professionals, led by the Global Head of Tax, who work closely
such as system deployment or management/structural with the business on a day-to-day basis. The Global Tax team
reorganisations. We add operational resources and adapt is suitably qualified for the roles they perform, and we support
programme timelines to ensure processes and controls are their training needs so they can provide up to date technical
maintained during significant changes. advice in line with their responsibilities.
The Disclosure Committee, reporting to the Board, reviews We submit tax returns according to statutory time limits and
GSK’s quarterly results and annual report. Throughout the year, engage proactively with tax authorities to ensure our tax affairs
in consultation with its legal advisors, the Disclosure Committee are current, entering into continuous audit programmes and
also determines whether it is necessary to disclose publicly advance pricing agreements where appropriate. These
information about the Group through stock exchange arrangements provide long-term certainty for both tax
announcements. We keep up to date with the latest authorities and GSK over the tax treatment of our business,
developments in financial reporting requirements by working based on full disclosure of all relevant facts. We seek to resolve
with our external auditor and legal advisors. any differences of interpretation in tax legislation with tax
The Treasury Management Group (TMG) meets regularly authorities in a cooperative manner. In exceptional cases, we
to ensure that liquidity, interest rate, counterparty, foreign may have to resolve disputes through formal proceedings.
currency transaction and foreign currency translation risks are
all managed in line with the prudent approach detailed in the
risk strategies and policies adopted by our Board.
278 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 279
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC)
Risk definition We have appropriate controls in place around transactions
The bribery and corruption risk is the failure of GSK employees, and payments to third parties, such as training, awareness
consultants and third parties to comply with our Anti-bribery & raising and strong monitoring. We plan to continue with pre-
corruption (ABAC) principles and standards, as well as with all and post-transaction ABAC due diligence, to increase the
applicable legislation. capabilities in the business on monitoring, oversight, and red
flag resolution of third parties, and to review controls and
Risk impact accountabilities of government officials. We continue to assess
Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and and understand our money laundering risk exposure and
associated persons to governmental investigation, regulatory mitigate any existing risk.
action, and civil and criminal liability and may compromise the
Our Code of Conduct, values and expectations, and
Group’s ability to supply its products under certain government
commitment to zero tolerance towards bribery and corruption
contracts. In addition, failure to prevent bribery or corruption
are integral to how we mitigate this risk. In light of the complexity
could have substantial implications for GSK’s reputation and the
and geographic breadth of the risk, we constantly evolve our
credibility of senior leaders and might erode investor confidence
oversight of activities and data; reinforce to our workforce
in our governance and risk management. It could also lead to
GSK’s clear expectations regarding acceptable behaviours; and
legal and financial penalties.
maintain regular communications between the centre and local
Context markets.
The overall environment for ABAC continues to be challenging. We built our ABAC programme based on best in class
Countries are holding individuals, as well as corporations, principles and is subject to ongoing review and development.
accountable by increasing the employer duty of care. It provides us with the basis from which we seek to manage
Divergence of legislation, increasing political protectionism, the risk from both top down and bottom up. For example, the
social inequality and pricing pressures are making compliance programme includes top-level commitment from our Board
harder. Society is holding corporations to ever higher standards, and leadership, and a data analytics programme to create and
with technology providing a rapid and anonymous avenue for embed local key risk indicators to enable targeted intervention
dissemination of previously confidential information and even and risk management activities.
for damaging false reports.
A global ABAC policy, and other written standards and controls,
Enforcement actions and penalties continued across the globe which address the business activities that give rise to ABAC
with the focus on use of third-party intermediaries. Proposed risk underpins the programme. In addition, the programme
EU legislation would require businesses to conduct due mandates enhanced controls over interactions with government
diligence on potential human rights and related environmental officials and during business development transactions.
impacts of their operations and supply chains, imposing a legal Controls in our ABAC policy establish due diligence
standard of care. In addition, the ongoing impact of COVID-19 requirements for the engagement of third parties.
could increase the risk of bribery and corruption.
We have a dedicated team responsible for the implementation
Supportive aspects of the external environment include an and evolution of the ABAC programme. The ABAC team
increase in transparency and collaboration among enforcement continually works with other groups across the enterprise to
authorities with the aim of reducing bribery and corruption address and improve controls and monitoring requirements.
globally. Advances in technology and the use of data analytics Audit & Assurance and independent business monitoring teams
are also providing better platforms to streamline processes and complement the team’s work and provide added assurance.
detect potential issues. We use issues found during oversight and assurance exercises,
and from investigations to identify areas for specific intervention
Mitigating activities in the markets and to drive the continuous improvement of the
We have an enterprise wide ABAC programme designed to programme.
ensure compliance with our ABAC policies and mitigate the risk
We regularly provide mandatory ABAC training to employees
of bribery and corruption. It builds on our business standards
and relevant third parties in accordance with their roles and
and culture to form a comprehensive and practical approach to
responsibilities and the risks they face.
compliance that is flexible to the evolving nature of our business.
We benchmark our ABAC programme against those of other
GSK’s ABAC Governance Board oversees and provides
large multinational companies and use external expertise and
programme governance and enterprise risk management which
internal insights to drive improvements.
includes representation from key functional areas.
Formal and informal ‘Speak Up’ channels are available to report
misconduct or non-compliance. The central investigations team
reviews and triages allegations of non-compliance and allocates
for investigation as appropriate.Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Commercial practices
Risk definition Once we have an approved medicine or vaccine, it is our
Failure to engage in commercial activities that are consistent obligation to provide important information to the healthcare
with the letter and spirit of the law, industry regulations, or community in various ways, always in a responsible, legal, and
the Group’s requirements relating to sales and promotion ethical manner. Appropriate product promotion ensures HCPs
of our medicines and vaccines; appropriate interactions with have access to the information they need, that patients and
healthcare professionals/ organisations and patients; legitimate consumers have the facts about the medicines and vaccines
and transparent transfers of value; and competition (or antitrust) they require, and prescribed, recommended, or used in a
regulations in commercial practices, including trade channel manner that provides healthcare benefit.
activities and tendering business. We are committed to the ethical and responsible
commercialisation of our products in support of our purpose to
Risk impact
improve the quality of human life by enabling people to do more,
Failure to engage in activities that are consistent with the
feel better, and live longer.
letter and spirit of the law, industry regulations, or the Group’s
requirements relating to sales and promotion of medicines Mitigating activities
and vaccines; with appropriate interactions with healthcare To achieve our strategic objectives, we must meet price
professionals (HCPs), organisations and patients; with expectations of payers, HCPs, consumers, and the community.
legitimate and transparent transfers of value; and with pricing Our values and behaviours provide a guide for how we lead and
and competition (or antitrust) regulations in commercial make decisions. We constantly strive to do the right thing and
practices, including trade channel activities and business deliver quality medicines and vaccines and sustain reliable
tendering, could, materially and adversely affect our ability to supply to meet customer needs. In doing so, we seek to ensure
deliver our strategy and long-term priorities. Additionally, it may our actions reflect GSK’s values, behaviours, and purpose.
result in incomplete awareness of the risk/benefit profile of our
We understand the impact of data on our industry and strive to
products and possibly suboptimal treatment of patients and
become an organisation that makes data-driven decisions; this
consumers; governmental investigation, regulatory action and
approach is aligned to our efforts to become more agile and
legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental
work at pace. GSK has acted to enhance and improve our
and private plaintiffs which could result in government
policies and standards, application of data analytics and our
sanctions, and criminal and/or financial penalties. Any practices
channel activities. We have developed policies to support the
that are found to be misaligned with our values and expectations
strong growth of our Consumer Healthcare internet channels
could also result in reputational harm and dilute trust
and digital marketing activities, using artificial intelligence-
established with external stakeholders.
powered tools to improve the oversight of more than 700
Context GSK websites.
We operate in a highly regulated and extremely competitive We have evolved policies and standards in a stepwise approach
biopharma and consumer industry, amongst peers who make to ensure that commercial activities that we undertake or are
significant product innovations and technical advances and conducted on our behalf are executed within our established
intensify price competition. Additional external factors impacting governance. We train employees on relevant information with a
our business operations include the ongoing COVID-19 global focus on interactive learning and elements of behavioural
pandemic, access limitations to our customers, macroeconomic science. All our commercial activities worldwide must conform
inflationary dynamics, and pricing pressure across markets. to high ethical, regulatory, and industry standards. Where local
To achieve our strategic objectives, we must continue to standards differ from global ones, we apply those that are most
develop commercially viable new products and deliver stringent. Where the standards of an acquired company or joint
additional uses for existing products that address the needs venture partner differ from our global standards, we remediate
of patients, consumers, HCPs and payers. Financially, new legacy policies and implement revisions, so they align.
products/indications carry with them an uncertainty with Our Consumer Healthcare business has harmonised policies
regards to future success. Product development is costly, and procedures, to guide regional and global commercial
timely, and uncertain, and carries with it the potential for failure practice processes, and clarified applicable standards for
at any stage. Even upon successful product development, we operations in the markets in which we operate. In 2021 we have
still face challenges in how we launch and how our competitors’ implemented a specific control framework for our five export
products or pricing strategies could render our assets less hubs, and embedded our promotional code in China to enable
competitive. Supporting our efforts on product innovation is a responsible business growth and employee behaviour.
continued focus on creating an omnichannel way of
engagement, with a continued focus on our patient.
280 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 281
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Commercial practices continued
GSK’s Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines We implemented this in a phased and thoughtful approach
businesses continue to use our internal control framework to supported by a comprehensive training, control, and monitoring
support its assessment and management of risks. Business framework to ensure full alignment with GSK’s values-based
unit risk management and compliance boards, which manage approach to HCP engagement.
risks across global and in-country business activities, oversee
We allow fair market value payments to be made by GSK to
commercial activities and their monitoring programmes. The
expert practitioners to speak about our innovative medicines
recent combination of the Legal and Compliance functions
and vaccines during a restricted period in a product’s lifecycle.
into one team will result in a stronger, more cohesive support
A global end-to-end process and system is currently set to
function for our businesses.
begin deployment in Q4 2021 and will improve not only the
All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed execution of these activities, but also strengthen controls
and approved according to our policies and standards and through automation and use of data. Where permitted we
conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations; these report payments to individual HCPs as part of our commitment
requirements seek to ensure that such materials and activities to transparency and responsible disclosure.
fairly represent the Group’s products or services. Consumer
Consumer Healthcare has been a key driver in the development
Healthcare has deployed a new copy approval tool to improve
of an ethical code for the Global Self-Care Federation, setting
controls over important promotional activity. Where necessary,
principles for promotion to healthcare practitioners and
in the event of misconduct, we have disciplined employees, up
pharmacy staff.
to and including termination of contract, and clawed back
remuneration from senior management. GSK is committed to complying with all applicable sanctions
laws and regulations and has deployed a programme to enable
We have continued to evolve our incentive programme for
management of sanctions risk. The programme, led by GSK
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines sales representatives to better
Finance, is made up of various systems and controls including,
recognise and reward individual effort. In all mature markets, the
but not limited to, policies and procedures, training and
capped variable pay element of representatives’ compensation
awareness, screening, monitoring and risk reporting.
is evaluated on the basis of individual sales targets.
Non-promotional engagement
Risk definition Context
Failure to engage in non-promotional activities that are Non-promotional engagements are diverse activities directed
consistent with local laws, regulations and guidance, Industry at healthcare professionals, as well as patients, payers, and
Codes, internal GSK policies, standards and other controls, external stakeholders. Such engagements are conducted to
and GSK values, including i) communications to HCP/OHS or improve patient care through the exchange or provision of
non-HCPs relating to our medicines and/or associated disease knowledge on the use of our products and related diseases.
areas; ii) appropriate conduct of non-promotional interactions; Non-promotional engagement with external stakeholder groups
and iii) legitimacy and transparency of non-promotional is vital to GSK, as a research-based healthcare company, and
interactions. necessary for scientific and medical advances. We expect our
non-promotional activities to be scientifically sound and
Risk impact
accurate, conducted ethically and transparently, and compliant
Without controls in place, the risk could result in real, with applicable codes, laws, and regulations. However, non-
perceived, or disguised promotion including off-label and promotional engagements are largely unregulated. Therefore,
prior-authorisation promotion, and real or perceived provision of measured risk-taking, rooted in sound values, and principles-
medical advice. This in turn could lead to criminal investigations based decision-making, training, communication, and
and penalties, civil litigation, or competitor complaints. At the monitoring of such activities are key to managing the risk and
same time, if we do not engage fully and appropriately, this enabling full and appropriate engagement.
could result in patient harm, failure to advance science and
innovation, reputational damage, and financial loss. Such Mitigating activities
consequences may reduce the trust of the public, patients, Our Chief Medical Officer (CMO) oversees all non-promotional
healthcare professionals, payers, regulators, and governments. engagement as enterprise risk owner. The GSK Code of
Practice is the key internal policy for non-promotional
engagement activities. These activities include scientific
interactions, support of medical education, advice seeking,
gathering insights on unmet needs of patients, scientific
communication of our research, and disease awareness.Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Non-promotional engagement continued
Since the pandemic, we have seen a continued increase We enhanced our internal networks to foster collaboration and
in virtual engagements (eg with external experts, advisory best practice sharing in risk management. The networks will
boards, patient advocacy, patient engagements and scientific identify emerging risks associated with non-promotional
congresses). We further developed and modernised our digital activities early and support staff to conduct activities in
approach to HCPs and insight-gathering and applied our compliance with GSK’s values and policies, local laws, and
internal principles and policies to this rapidly changing and regulations. We continue to build effective management
growing environment. monitoring systems and apply key risk indicators for managing
non-promotional engagement.
Privacy
Risk definition In some countries data privacy laws require appointment of a
The failure to collect, secure, use, share and destroy Personal data protection officer (DPO). GSK appointed a single DPO for
Information (PI) in accordance with data privacy laws can lead the EU, represented and supported in specific countries by
to harm to individuals (e.g. financial, stress, prejudice) and GSK country privacy advisors.
(e.g. fines, operational, financial and reputational). Our General Counsel is GSK’s enterprise risk owner (ERO).
The ERO has appointed a delegate risk owner, the global
Risk impact
privacy officer (GPO), who has day-to-day accountability for
Non-compliance with data privacy laws globally could lead to
designing and implementing the control framework. The GPO
harm to individuals and GSK. It could also damage trust
co-leads the cross-functional Privacy Centre of Excellence,
between GSK and individuals, communities, business partners
together with the Global Privacy Counsel. Privacy officers,
and government authorities. Many countries have increased the
privacy counsel, and multiple country privacy advisors (who are
enforcement powers of their data protection authorities by
familiar with local privacy regulations) support these groups.
allowing them to impose significant fines, impact cross-border
data flows, or temporarily ban data processing. Many new GSK has evolved the initial control framework implemented for
country laws also give individuals the right to bring collective the EU General Data Protection Regulation into a
legal actions against companies like GSK for failure to follow comprehensive privacy control framework, based on global
data privacy laws. privacy principles common across the global privacy landscape.
This global framework deployed in countries showing a need for
Context such a comprehensive framework, based on factors like robust
Data privacy legislation is diverse with limited harmonisation local privacy legislation, established data protection authorities,
or simplification. It is challenging for multinationals to and GSK footprint. Beyond those countries, we are deploying a
standardise their approach to compliance with data privacy proportionate control framework to set up minimum privacy
laws. Governments are enforcing compliance with data privacy standards irrespective of any applicable legislation.
laws more rigorously. The focus on the ethical use of personal
Our Privacy Centre of Excellence is responsible for:
information is growing, over and above compliance with data
privacy laws, due to an increase in the volume of data – operating and improving the centralised global privacy control
processed and advances in technology. framework;
Workforce protection and effective privacy controls for research – continuously assessing and providing relevant and
during the COVID-19 pandemic create unique challenges. proportionate controls and aid to non-deployed markets;
Additionally, new data privacy laws, such as the Personal – monitoring new, or changing, laws and adapting the privacy
Information Protection Law (PIPL) in China, and court decisions framework; accordingly, and
– like the Court of Justice of the European Union ruling for
– deploying a comprehensive training programme to drive
Schrems II – are invalidating established international data
greater awareness and accountability for managing personal
transfer mechanisms that international companies had relied
information across the entire organisation.
on. The increasing trend for data sovereignty affects our ability
to drive medical innovation and to effectively operate We certify key GSK privacy network roles with an accredited
internationally international privacy association.
Mitigating activities We continuously improve our processes, such as issue
identification, reporting and handling, through monitoring.
Our General Counsel is also the chair of our Privacy
The Privacy Centre of Excellence engages in new business
Governance Board, which oversees GSK’s overall data privacy
development opportunities at an early stage to ensure we
operating model. Each GSK business area has appointed a risk
perform appropriate due diligence and the right steps taken
owner accountable for overseeing its privacy risks, supported
when onboarding or splitting off a business unit.
by privacy leaders within their business.
282 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 283
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Research practices
Risk definition We use a wide variety of biological materials in the discovery,
Research Practices risk is the failure to adequately conduct research, and development of our assets. Through the
ethical and sound pre-clinical and clinical research. In addition, Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Nagoya
it is the failure to engage in scientific activities that are Protocol, the international community has established a global
consistent with the letter and spirit of the law and industry, or framework regulating access to, and use of, genetic resources
the Group’s requirements. It comprises the following sub-risks: of non-human origin in research and development.
Data Governance, Laboratory Research, and Human Subject We support the principles of access to, and benefit-sharing
Research. of, genetic resources as outlined in the CBD and the Nagoya
Protocol. We also recognise the importance of appropriate,
Risk impact
effective, and proportionate implementation measures at
The potential impacts of the risk include harm to human subjects,
national and regional levels.
reputational damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory
Mitigating activities
approvals for our products, governmental investigation, legal
proceedings brought against the GSK by governmental and The Research Practices risk is overseen by an enterprise
private plaintiffs (product liability suits and claims for damages), framework that seeks to strengthen governance across R&D
loss of revenue due to inadequate patent protection or inability in our Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
to supply our products, and regulatory action such as fines, businesses.
penalties, or loss of product authorisation. Poor data integrity
Under the leadership of the Research Practices enterprise risk
and governance could compromise GSK’s R&D efforts and
owner, management of the risk takes a pragmatic approach to
negatively impact our reputation. Any of these could materially
information sharing, streamlining risk identification and
and adversely affect our financial results and damage the trust
escalation while ensuring ownership of risk mitigation stays
of patients and customers.
with the business.
Context
We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and
Research involving animals can raise ethical concerns. In Strategy and Risk (OAWESR), led by our Chief Veterinary
many cases, however, research in animals is the only way to Officer, that supports the humane and responsible care of
investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living animals, carries out ethical reviews and independent scientific
body other than in humans. Animal research provides critical reviews of animal studies, and shares knowledge and advocates
information about the causes and mechanisms of diseases and for the application of non-animal alternatives. The OAWESR
therefore remains a vital part of our research. We continually provides a framework of animal welfare governance, defines and
seek ways in which we can minimise our use of animals in provides oversight for training in animal care and, promotes the
research, development, and testing, while complying with replacement, refinement and reduction of animal research,
regulatory requirements and reducing the impact on the conducts quality assessments, manages a programme of
animals used. external animal diligence, and develops and deploys strategies
Human subject research is critical to assessing and for reproducing experiments and translating them to human
demonstrating the safety and efficacy of our investigational clinical end points.
products or further evaluate our products once they have been Ensuring we implement and maintain proper data governance
approved. This research includes clinical trials in healthy controls remains an important priority, especially as our
volunteers and patients and follows regulations and high ethical, scientific strategy is evolving to take advantage of the breath of
medical, and scientific standards. We disclose the results of our data (for example: genomics and artificial intelligence and
this research externally regardless of whether they reflect machine learning). We focus on building data integrity as well as
positively or negatively on our products, so that the scientific privacy and usage controls into our internal control framework.
community can learn from the outcomes of our research. Quality assurance teams conduct audits to provide independent
We also work with human biological samples which are business monitoring of our internal controls.
fundamental to the discovery, development, and safety Our R&D organisation maintains and controls pre-publication
monitoring of our products. We are committed to managing procedures to guard against public disclosure before patent
human biological samples in accordance with relevant laws, applications are filed. In addition, because a lack of data
regulations, and ethical principles, and in a manner that integrity in preparing patent application data and information
respects the interests of sample donors. can lead to a loss of patent protection, legal experts collaborate
Data is pivotal to our R&D strategy and we are maximising the with R&D to support the review process for new patent
use of data to serve patients. Governing our data in accordance applications. Our R&D organisation also collaborates with
with relevant laws, regulations, contractual obligations, legal experts throughout the development of our assets to
expectations, and our culture across privacy, information take account of any relevant third-party patent rights.
security, and data integrity is essential.Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Environment, health and safety
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure in management of: The Global Leadership Team is responsible for EHS
governance and risk oversight. They ensure there is an effective
– execution of hazardous activities;
control framework ‘in-place’ and ‘in-use’ to manage the EHS
– GSK’s physical assets and infrastructure; risks, impacts, and legal compliance issues in each of our
– handling and processing of hazardous chemicals and business units. This includes assigning responsibility to senior
biological agents; managers for providing and maintaining our controls, and for
ensuring that tiered monitoring and governance processes are
– control of releases of substances harmful to the environment
in place within their business units. Function leaders ensure that
in both the short and long-term;
the EHS control framework is implemented effectively in their
leading to incidents which could disrupt our R&D and Supply respective business area, that it is compliant with applicable
activities, harm employees, harm the communities and harm laws and regulations, and that it is adequately resourced,
the local environments in which we operate. maintained, communicated, and monitored. Every employee
and qualified contractor acting on behalf of GSK is personally
Risk impact
responsible for ensuring that they follow all applicable local
Failure to manage EHS risks could lead to significant harm to
standard operating procedures.
people, the environment and the communities in which we
Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our
operate; fines; inability to meet stakeholder expectations and
global EHS policy and detailed in our global EHS standards,
regulatory requirements; litigation or regulatory action; and
against which we audit all our operations to ensure compliance.
damage to the company’s reputation, which could materially
We ensure hazards are appropriately controlled through the
and adversely affect our financial results.
design of facilities, equipment, and systems. These rigorous
Context procedures, when applied correctly, put effective barriers in
GSK is subject to the health, safety, and environmental laws place to protect employees’ health and safety.
of various jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect
In late 2020 we created a safety improvement plan to
people, the environment, and the communities in which we
strengthen our corporate safety programmes, focusing on
operate.
Life Saving Rules, Safety Leadership and Warehouse Safety.
All significant milestones for these programmes delivered in
2021 and the overall number of significant incidents that have
occurred this year has reduced.
Environmental sustainability
Risk definition Risk impact
Failure in the management of: We recognise that the way we respond to climate change and
manage environmental risks affects our ability to supply
– Physical climate and environmental risks;
products to patients and consumers and could lead to harm to
– Current and future regulatory requirements for environmental the environment and our reputation. Failure to meet fast-evolving
policies and taxes; regulatory requirements and stakeholder expectations could
– Delivery and performance of management environmental result in litigation or regulatory actions, which may have a
objectives; material adverse impact on our financial results and longer term
loss of trust, undermining the credibility of the company.
leading to: reduced supply chain resilience; product life cycle
management issues, loss of trust/reputation with employees, Context
investors, customers, regulators and other stakeholders; It is increasingly understood that the interconnected effects of
increased costs; loss of sales or market access; negative climate change, nature loss, and society’s impact on both are
impacts on the environment. influencing human health. Internal and external expectations for
companies to address their impact on the environment are
increasing, as are the effects of climate change on operational
resilience, in regard to access to energy, water and the natural
resources used in products, along with potential cost increases
from any regulatory changes or environmental taxes.
284 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 285
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Environmental sustainability continued
Mitigating activities We ensure delivery of reductions in carbon emissions, energy,
In November 2020, GSK announced a new commitment to water, and waste across our operations. We have mature
have net zero climate impact and to be net nature positive by programmes for managing performance improvements at our
2030. These goals built on our long-term ambition, set out in sites, and we include sustainability considerations in the design
2010, to reduce our impact on the environment. of products and packaging. We are strengthening our
engagement with our suppliers to target where key interventions
The GSK Leadership Team (GLT) is responsible for
or support are most needed.
environmental sustainability governance and risk oversight.
It ensures there is an effective framework in place, and in use, We continue to monitor and control antibiotic emissions from
to manage the risks across each of our businesses and to manufacturing effluents at all GSK facilities, and those of our
deliver on commitments. The GLT’s responsibilities include suppliers, following good operational practice and meeting
appointing dedicated senior leaders and resources to provide emission limits as defined by the AMR Alliance Manufacturing
and maintain risk controls and ensure that governance Framework to assess our impact on the environment.
processes are established and effective within their businesses. We continuously re-assess our business resilience to climate
A dedicated environmental sustainability enterprise risk plan change against the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
is in place supported by a dedicated programme team and Disclosures (TCFD) framework guidelines.
governance framework to manage transformation activities.
Information security
Risk definition The COVID-19 pandemic continues as another significant
Risk in Information Security at GSK is characterised as the external factor affecting how we manage information security at
unauthorised disclosure, theft, unavailability or corruption of GSK. COVID-19-related threats include an increase in
GSK’s Information or key information systems that may lead to ransomware attacks against the healthcare sector, as hackers
harm to our patients, workforce and customers, disruption to continue to use the opportunity to disrupt critical healthcare
our business and/or loss of commercial or strategic advantage, operations and, in some cases, seize healthcare research
regulatory sanction, or damage to our reputation. related to COVID-19 vaccines and treatments.
We operate a highly connected information network which
Risk impact
holds confidential research and development, manufacturing,
Failure to adequately protect our information, or key information
commercial, workforce and financial data. This means that our
systems, may cause harm to our patients, workforce and
systems and information have been and will continue to be the
customers, disruption to our business and/or loss of commercial
target of cyberattacks. We continue to consolidate information
or strategic advantage, regulatory sanction, or damage to our
systems to reduce attack points and enable more focused
reputation.
controls. GSK’s strategic approach to digital analytics will
Context further increase our dependency on digital assets and
distributed data. Our continued analysis and assessment of
The overall information security environment is challenging,
our critical data assets and the threats to those assets will
because of the difficulty of keeping pace with increasingly
require a continuous re-evaluation of emerging risks to GSK.
sophisticated cyber threats. This is due to many factors
Mitigating actions already defined in these areas includes the
including, the complexity of large regulated organisations; the
secure deployment and operation of our resources in high-risk
well-resourced nature of hacking activities; and the increasing
markets, the risk posed by GSK having data in the Cloud, and
demands for accountability of data handled by companies.
the potential for complexity resulting from agile business-led IT
Additionally, the GSK separation is a period of significant
development across the enterprise.
change which increases our risk and requires additional
vigilance. We continue to reassess our reliance on
interconnectivity with third party contractors, partners, and
suppliers.Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Information security continued
Mitigating activities – Optimising security architecture to mitigate the risk of data
We have a dedicated team and program of activity that supports loss intentionally or unintentionally, implementing a cloud
our global information security policy and accompanying IT security strategy and ensuring new solution development
standards and processes. The GSK Technology, Security and includes security by design. We are also continuing to
Risk function provides strategy, direction, and oversight and remediate and improve the control environment for privileged
we have mirrored these functions in New CH in readiness for or elevated user rights across our systems.
separation. This includes active monitoring of cybersecurity, – Transferring third party risk management to a managed
while enhancing our global information security capabilities service partner. This organisation will process our critical and
through an ongoing programme of investment. We continue to sensitive information and supports the solution that will enable
make significant investments in mitigation activities, which we us to move all third parties that access our IT resources
will continue to advance in the coming year: remotely via a more secure environment.
– Modernising cyber operations with consistent evaluation of – Enabling business performance in high risk markets by
our security solutions and deployment of best of class cyber assessing data and information originating in, and flowing to,
security technology to ensure the timely detection and international markets where local laws and norms represent a
response to information security incidents, with particular heightened risk to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability
focus on ransomware preparation and awareness. of our operational systems.
– Modernising cyber security within manufacturing and R&D
sites to address the age, complexity, and global footprint of
those environments.
Supply continuity
Risk definition Our complex end-to-end supply chains often involve third party
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished suppliers, from Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API)
product; inability to respond effectively to a crisis incident in a manufacturers and raw material suppliers through to Third Party
timely manner to recover and sustain critical operations. Logistics Providers and contract engineering firms. We embed
integrated risk management into our sourcing and day to day
Risk impact business processes, alongside our Third-Party Oversight
We recognise how important the continuity of supply of our programme.
products is to the patients and consumers who rely on them.
COVID-19 is an exemplar of events in the external environment
Supply disruption can lead to: which result in unforeseen, significant supply challenges,
including staffing shortages for essential manufacturing
– Product shortages and product recalls
operations, critical raw materials supply pressures (e.g. glass
– Regulatory intervention vials, plastic tubing) and interruptions in distribution.
– Reputational harm Cybersecurity remains a significant threat to our supply chain
– Lost sales revenue operations. The global cyber threat has increased during the
global pandemic and we remain hyper-vigilant to data security
Consequently, we need sophisticated end-to-end supply chain
breaches and Operational Technology risks.
management with robust crisis management and business
continuity plans in place to respond. Mitigating activities
Risk Management:
Context
Our supply chains are set up to ensure sustainable supply
We run our supply chains in a continually evolving, highly
across the GSK portfolio of Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and
regulated environment. There is no single set of global
Consumer Healthcare products. The GSK Internal Control
regulations which governs the manufacture and distribution of
Framework drives our approach to risk management, designed
medicines and we must adhere to the requirements in all those
to identify emerging new risks and support clear decision
markets in which we licence, sell, or manufacture our products.
making.
We rely upon our internal Quality Management System and our
internal Control Framework to ensure we continue to preserve
our licence to operate.
286 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 287
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Supply continuity continued
Each supply chain manages their risk oversight through a Business continuity:
hierarchy of Risk Management and Compliance Boards to Crisis management and business continuity plans are in place
assure risk mitigation (including identifying new and emerging across Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare,
threats). which include authorised response and recovery strategies, key
areas of responsibility and clear communication routes. Supply
Inventory Management:
chains regularly use Business Continuity Plans to manage
Supply chain governance committees within each Business
potential supply disruptions. Our manufacturing sites have crisis
Unit closely monitor the inventory status and delivery of our
management plans in place tested annually where there is no
products.
occurrence of deployment to ensure maintenance of skills in
Our core commercial cycle links the supply chain forecasting
crisis management.
with our commercial ambition and designed to reduce the risk
of demand fluctuations and manage temporary shortages in
supply.
We periodically review each node of our supply chains to
ensure we hold adequate safety stocks, whilst balancing
working capital. We particular emphasis on mitigating supply
risks associated with medically critical, high-revenue products
and new product launches, e.g. using dual sourcing for key
products or APIs. We use the monthly Performance
Management Process across the supply chains to monitor
business activity and highlight adverse trends in supply,
operations, budget, and workforce capability.
Transformation and separation
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to deliver the plan for successful transformation and The Future Ready Office (FRO), established in the fourth
separation of GSK into two new, leading companies: one quarter of 2019, is accountable for monitoring the progress,
BioPharma and one Consumer Healthcare. performance and risks associated with creating the two new
companies. It reports monthly to the GSK Leadership Team
Risk impact
(GLT) to ensure there is enterprise oversight of the plan, using
The failure to manage the macro level risk due to COVID-19 and key performance and risk indicators which track programme
a highly competitive labour market, in relation to the delivery of resource, programme delivery, talent retention, recruitment,
the separation plan, could materially and adversely affect our and onboarding to address COVID and labour market
ability to deliver GSK’s strategy and long-term priorities. challenges. In addition, GSK’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO),
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Strategy Officer and Head of FRO
Context
meet the leaders of Consumer Healthcare to gather input and
In February 2020, GSK announced a new ‘Future Ready’
approval of key design choices for that new company. Overall,
programme to prepare for its separation into two companies:
the balance between transformation and separation is upheld
new GSK, a pharma company with an R&D approach focused
through clear governance, joint coordination between new GSK
on science related to the immune system, the use of genetics
and Consumer Healthcare, rigorous progress tracking and the
and new technologies; and a new leader in consumer
setting of clear parameters.
healthcare. As GSK increases investment in R&D and new
product launches, the two-year separation programme aims to The GSK Board is regularly informed of the Future Ready
drive a common approach to innovation with improved capital programme lead indicators through the CEO Board Report
allocation; to align and improve the capabilities and efficiencies at each Board meeting. At Board level, a Transformation and
of global support functions to support new GSK; to further Separation Committee supports and advises management’s
optimise the supply chain and portfolio, including divesting work on transforming and separating the Group. This committee
non-core assets; and to prepare Consumer Healthcare to is chaired by the GSK Chairman and includes our Senior
operate as a standalone company. Once complete, the outlook Independent Director and the Chairs of the Audit & Risk,
of both companies will have been fundamentally strengthened, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
making them more efficient, modern, and automated, with skills
and capabilities that will serve them into the future.Shareholder information
Share capital and control
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares Interests in voting rights
held in Treasury as at 31 December 2021 can be found in Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are
Note 36 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the
premium account’. company. Information provided to the company pursuant to
Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure Guidance and
(LSE) and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange Transparency Rules (DTR 5) is published on a Regulatory
(NYSE) in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each Information Service and on the company’s website,
ADS represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt www.gsk.com.
and where it is listed refer to Note 29 to the financial statements, The company has received notifications in accordance with
‘Net debt’. DTR 5 of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive the company’s issued share capital:
dividends (when declared) and the company’s Annual Report.
31 December 2021 27 February 2022
They are also entitled to attend, speak, appoint proxies and
Percentage Percentage
exercise voting rights at general meetings of the company. No. of of total voting No. of of total voting
voting rights rights(1) voting rights rights(1)
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the BlackRock, Inc 332,238,289(2) 6.40% 332,238,289 6.40%
holding, of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements Dodge & Cox 253,464,108(3) 5.04% 253,464,108 5.04%
to obtain approval prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares
(1) P ercentage of total voting rights at the date of notification to the company.
or ADS carry any special rights with regard to control of the
(2) C omprising an indirect interest in 329,124,508 Ordinary Shares and a
company and there are no restrictions on voting rights. Major
holding of 3,113,781 Qualifying Financial Instruments (Contract for
shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other
Difference).
shareholders. There are no known arrangements under which
(3) C omprising an indirect interest in 99,377,874 Ordinary Shares and
financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of 154,086,234 American Depositary Shares.
the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share
The company has not acquired or disposed of any interests
transfers or on voting rights.
in its own shares during the period under review.
Shares acquired through the Group’s employee share plans
rank equally with the other shares in issue and have no special Share buy-back programme
rights. The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan
The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary
trusts have waived their rights to dividends on shares held by
Shares under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association.
those trusts.
The power under Article 9 and the authority for the company to
make purchases of its own shares are subject to shareholder
Exchange controls and other limitations
authorities which are sought on an annual basis at our Annual
affecting holders
General Meeting (AGM). Any shares purchased by the
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in company may be cancelled, held as Treasury shares or
force from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, used for satisfying share options and grants under the Group's
decrees or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import employee share plans.
or export of capital or restricting the remittance of dividends or
Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation
other payments to holders of the company’s shares who are
or to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the
non-residents of the UK. Similarly, other than certain economic
authority renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2021,
sanctions which may be in force from time to time, there are no
when the company was authorised to purchase a maximum
limitations relating only to non-residents of the UK under English
of just under 503 million shares. Details of shares purchased,
law or the company’s Articles of Association on the right to be a
cancelled, held as Treasury shares and subsequently
holder of, and to vote in respect of, the company’s shares.
transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Group’s
employee share plans are disclosed in Note 36 to the financial
statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’.
In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
considers the development of free cash flow during the year.
No shares have been purchased since 2014.
The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make
any market purchases in 2022. The company will review the
potential for future share buy-backs in line with its usual annual
cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
288 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 289
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information continued
Share capital and control continued
Market capitalisation Share price trend in the three years ended
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding 31 December 2021
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2021 was £81 billion.
At that date, GSK was the 6th largest company by market UK£ US$
capitalisation in the FTSE index. 19 80
Share price 18 75
2021 2020 2019
£ £ £ 17 70
At 1 January 13.42 17.79 14.91 16 65
At 31 December 16.07 13.42 17.79 15 60
Increase/(decrease) 20% (24.6)% 19.3%
14 55
High during the year 16.19 18.46 18.19
13 50
Low during the year 11.91 12.92 14.36
12 45
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices.
11 40
The company’s share price increased by 20% in 2021. This
35
compares with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 14%
09 30
during the year. The middle market closing share price on
31/12/18 31/12/19 31/12/20 31/12/21
27 February 2022 was £15.64.
UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)
Nature of trading market
The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing prices for the company’s Ordinary
Shares on the LSE and for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
UK£ per share US$ per share
High Low High Low
February 2022* 16.50 15.05 45.70 41.19
January 2022 17.08 15.89 46.82 43.37
December 2021 16.19 15.34 44.44 41.25
November 2021 15.93 15.11 45.53 41.02
October 2021 15.09 13.80 42.33 38.13
September 2021 14.88 13.83 41.61 38.05
Quarter ended 31 December 2021 16.19 13.80 44.44 38.13
Quarter ended 30 September 2021 15.26 13.83 42.33 38.05
Quarter ended 30 June 2021 14.36 12.78 40.66 35.82
Quarter ended 31 March 2021 14.14 11.91 39.24 33.61
Quarter ended 31 December 2020 14.68 12.92 39.17 33.42
Quarter ended 30 September 2020 16.60 14.35 42.16 37.38
Quarter ended 30 June 2020 17.42 14.89 42.74 37.14
Quarter ended 31 March 2020 18.46 13.75 47.89 31.85
Year ended 31 December 2020 14.68 12.92 39.17 33.42
Year ended 31 December 2019 18.19 14.36 47.32 37.83
Year ended 31 December 2018 16.22 12.43 41.94 35.49
Year ended 31 December 2017 17.22 12.76 44.37 34.66
* t o 27 February 2022Shareholder information continued
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2021
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 69,334 71.06 0.44 23,444,870
1,001 to 5,000 21,872 22.41 0.88 47,264,152
5,001 to 100,000 5,220 5.35 1.50 80,804,464
100,001 to 1,000,000 776 0.80 5.04 271,429,821
Over 1,000,000 368 0.38 92.14 4,964,071,752
97,570 100.00 100.00 5,387,015,059
Held by
Institutional and Corporate holders 2,723 2.79 61.96 3,337,598,976
Individuals and other corporate bodies 94,845 97.21 13.55 729,773,041
Guaranty Nominees Limited 1 0.00 17.90 964,437,092
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 6.59 355,205,950
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the Depositary for the company’s American Depository Receipt (ADR) programme. The
company’s ADS are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s ADR programme, which is managed by the
Depositary, are registered in the name of Guaranty Nominees Limited. At 27 February 2022, Guaranty Nominees Limited held
994,314,754 Ordinary Shares representing 19.56% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares) at that date.
At 27 February 2022, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 939 with holdings of 915,261 Ordinary Shares, and
the number of registered holders of ADS was 18,627 with holdings of 497,157,377 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and
ADS were held by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not
representative of the number of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.
Dividends
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return On 23 June 2021, at the new GSK Investor Update, GSK
cash to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends set out that from 2022 a progressive dividend policy will be
remain an essential component of total shareholder return and implemented for new GSK. The dividend policy, the total
GSK recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders. expected cash distribution, and the respective dividend pay-out
The company aims to distribute regular dividend payments that ratios for new GSK and new Consumer Healthcare remain
will be determined primarily with reference to the free cash flow unchanged. GSK expects to declare a 27p per share dividend
generated by the business after funding the investment payable by the current group for the first half. This comprises
necessary to support the Group’s future growth. 22 pence per share for new GSK and 5 pence per share
representing Consumer Healthcare during the first half whilst
Dividends per share part of the group. For the second half of 2022, new GSK
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS continues to expect to declare a 22p per share dividend. As
for the last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into previously communicated, new GSK would expect to declare
US dollars at applicable exchange rates. a dividend of 45 pence per share for 2023.
Following separation, the dividend policy for the new Consumer
Year pence US$
Healthcare company will be the responsibility of its Board of
2021 80 –*
Directors and is expected to be guided by a 30 to 50 per cent
2020 80 2.09
pay-out ratio. On this basis, we now expect a second-half
2019 80 1.98
dividend from the new Consumer Healthcare company
2018 80 2.08
equivalent to a payout of around 3 pence per share, subject
2017 80 2.16
to its Board’s decisions on the intra-year phasing of dividend
* T he Q4 2021 ordinary dividend receivable by ADS holders will be calculated based on payments. This expected distribution per share for the second
the exchange rate on 7 April 2022. An annual fee of $0.03 per ADS (or $0.0075 per half of the year has been adjusted from that highlighted at the
ADS per quarter) will be charged by the Depository. The cumulative dividend receivable
by ADS holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2021 was $1.56. GSK Investor Update in June 2021 to reflect the total number
of shares (up to circa 9.25 billion shares) in the new Consumer
Healthcare company that are expected to be in issue upon
demerger. In June 2021 the planning assumption for the
Investor Update reflected only the GSK shares in issue at
that time (circa 5 billion shares).
290 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 291
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information continued
Dividends continued
In aggregate, this would represent on the full year 2022 basis 2022 Dividend calendar
the equivalent of a Group dividend of around 52p per share.
Quarter Ex-dividend date Record date Payment date
Dividends payable by Consumer Healthcare will only be
Q4 2021 24 February 2022 25 February 2022 7 April 2022
receivable by shareholders who remain invested in Consumer
Q1 2022 19 May 2022 20 May 2022 7 July 2022
Healthcare post-separation and at the appropriate record dates.
Q2 2022 18 August 2022 19 August 2022 6 October 2022
Details of the dividends declared, the amounts and the payment
Q3 2022 17 November 2022 18 November 2022 12 January 2023
dates are given in Note 16 to the financial statements,
Q4 2022 23 February 2023 24 February 2023 13 April 2023
‘Dividends’.
Financial calendar 2022
Results announcements
Event Date
Quarter 1 Results announcement 27 April 2022 Results announcements are issued to the LSE and are available
Annual General Meeting 4 May 2022 on its news service. They are also sent to the US Securities and
Quarter 2 Results announcement 27 July 2022 Exchange Commission (SEC) and the NYSE, issued to the
Quarter 3 Results announcement 2 November 2022 media and made available on our website.
Preliminary/Quarter 4 Results announcement 1 February 2023
Financial reports
Annual Report publication February/March 2023
Annual Report distribution March 2023 The company publishes an Annual Report which is made
available on our website from the date of publication.
Information about the company, including the share and ADS Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email
price, is available on our website at www.gsk.com. Information of the publication of Annual Reports by registering on
made available on the website does not constitute part of this www.shareview.co.uk, and may also elect to receive a
Annual Report. printed copy of the Annual Report by contacting our registrar,
Equiniti Limited.
Copies of previous Annual Reports are available on our website.
Printed copies can also be obtained from our registrar (see
page 294 for the contact details).
Annual General Meeting 2022
Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 2.30pm ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting electronically should
(UK time) on Wednesday, 4 May 2022 at the Sofitel London refer to the AGM Notice for details on how to request a proxy
Heathrow, Terminal 5, London Heathrow Airport, TW6 2GD appointment from the Depositary, J.P. Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
and will also be broadcast live for you to join electronically. This will enable them to attend, ask questions and vote, all
electronically, on the business to be transacted at the meeting.
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
ADS holders are reminded that if they do not instruct the
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal AGM
Depositary as to the way in which the shares represented
business, there will be a presentation by the CEO on the
by their ADS should be voted by completing and returning
performance of the Group and its future development. There
the voting card provided by the Depositary, their shares
will be an opportunity for questions to be asked of the Board.
will not be voted.
Chairs of the Board’s Committees and the Workforce
Engagement Director will be available to take questions
Documents on display
relating to their roles.
The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’
Further details on how to access the AGM electronically or
service contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment
attend in person, ask questions and vote, can be found in the
between Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries
notice of Annual General Meeting 2022 (AGM Notice) which is
(and any side letters relating to severance terms and pension
available on our website at www.gsk.com.
arrangements) are available for inspection at the company’s
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should registered office and will be made available for inspection at
arrange with that nominee service for them to be appointed as a the AGM.
proxy in respect of their shareholding in order to attend and vote
at the meeting electronically.Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax Inheritance tax
consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be
of the UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete liable to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS.
analysis of all the possible tax consequences of the purchase, Tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of the
ownership or sale of these securities. It is intended only as a shareholder’s estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by
general guide. Holders are advised to consult their advisers with way of lifetime gift or other disposal at less than full market
respect to the tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or value. In the case of a bequest on death, tax may be charged on
sale of their shares or ADS and the consequences under state the value of the shares at the date of the shareholder’s death.
and local tax laws in the US and the implications of the current If such a gift or other disposal were subject to both UK
UK/US tax conventions. inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the Estate and Gift Tax
US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of Convention would generally provide for tax paid in the US to be
the underlying shares for the purposes of the current UK/US credited against tax payable in the UK.
double taxation conventions relating to income and gains
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
(Income Tax Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift
Tax Convention), and for the purposes of the Internal Revenue UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will,
Code of 1986, as amended. subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of
shares at a rate of 0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in
UK shareholders
the case of stamp duty) of the consideration for the transfer.
Notwithstanding this, provided that an instrument is executed
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that
in pursuance of the agreement that gave rise to the charge to
holds shares as capital assets.
SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six years of the
agreement (including being stamped as exempt) any SDRT
Taxation of dividends
charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already
For the 2021/22 UK tax year, UK resident individuals are entitled
been paid will be repaid.
to a dividend tax allowance of up to £2,000, so that the first
£2,000 of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax. US shareholders
Dividends in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for
basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or
for additional rate taxpayers. Note that from April 2022 tax on resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that
dividend income will increase by 1.25% to help support the is otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income
NHS and social care. basis in respect of the shares or ADS) that holds shares or ADS
as capital assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should
and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession
note that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally
or vocation that is carried on in the UK through a branch or
entitled to exemption from corporation tax.
agency.
Taxation of capital gains The summary also does not address the tax treatment of
holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks,
UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on
tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities
the disposal of shares or ADS.
or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an
For disposals by individuals in the 2021/22 UK tax year, a
integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a
taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS
share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that
will be taxed at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after
own (directly, indirectly or constructively) 10% or more of the
all allowable deductions, the individual’s taxable income for
company’s stock (by vote or value), nor does it address tax
the year exceeds the basic rate income tax banding. Note this is
treatment that may be applicable as a result of international
following the use of any exemptions available to the individual
income tax treaties.
taxpayer such as the annual exempt amount.
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation
allowance which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent
that such gains arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance may
reduce a chargeable gain but will not create an allowable loss.
For assets acquired on or before 1 January 2018, legislation in
the Finance Act 2018 freezes the level of indexation allowance
that is given in calculating a company’s chargeable gains at the
value that would apply to the disposal of an asset in December
2017. For assets acquired from 1 January 2018 onwards,
legislation in the Finance Act 2018 removes any indexation
allowance on disposal.
292 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 293
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Shareholder information continued
Tax information for shareholders continued
Taxation of dividends Taxation of capital gains
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains
source dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for tax, but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on
the dividend received deduction allowed to US corporations. the sale or other disposal of shares or ADS. Such gains will be
Dividends on ADS are payable in US dollars; dividends on long-term capital gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for
Ordinary Shares are payable in Sterling. Dividends paid in individual holders) if the shares or ADS were held for more than
Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount one year, from the date the shares were vested/released.
calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the Short-term capital gains can be subject to taxation of rates of
dividends are received by the holder. Subject to certain up to 40.8%, whereas long-term capital gains may be subject to
exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual rates of up to 23.8%. State and local tax rates on capital gains
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum may also apply.
federal rate of 23.8% plus applicable state and local tax in
respect of qualified dividends. A qualified dividend as defined Information reporting and backup withholding
by the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is a dividend that Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
meets the following criteria: ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial
1. M ust be issued by a US corporation, a corporation intermediaries, are subject to information reporting and may
incorporated in a US possession, or a corporation that is be subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a
eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty corporation or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer
deemed satisfactory, as published by the IRS. identification number and certifies that no loss of exemption
has occurred. Non-US holders generally are not subject to
2. T he dividends are not of a type listed by the IRS as dividends
information reporting or backup withholding, but may be
that do not qualify.
required to provide a certification of their non-US status in
3. T he required dividend holding period has been met. The connection with payments received. Any amounts withheld will
shares must have been owned by you for more than 60 days be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US federal
of the ‘holding period’ – which is defined as the 121-day income tax liability provided the required information is furnished
period that begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or to the IRS.
the day in which the stock trades without the dividend priced
in. For example, if a stock’s ex-dividend date is 1 October, Estate and gift taxes
the shares must be held for more than 60 days in the period Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder
between 2 August and 30 November of that year in order to is not generally subject to UK inheritance tax. However, a US
count as a qualified dividend. holder may be subject to US federal estate and gift tax.
Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the
Stamp duty
US federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%.
Some types of dividends are automatically excluded from being UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
qualified dividends, even if they meet the other requirements. be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS custodian or
These include (but are not limited to): depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
1. Capital gains distributions
no consideration).
2. Dividends on bank deposits
However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the
3. D ividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS.
Ownership Plan (ESOP)
4. Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations.
US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified
dividends may vary and would be assessed in addition to the
federal tax rates communicated above.Other statutory disclosures
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0371 384 2991 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose A DRIP election form can be downloaded
(DRIP) to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. from www.shareview.co.uk or requested by
contacting Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank All dividends are paid directly into your bank or building society A dividend bank mandate form can be
account (Bank Mandate) account. To receive your cash dividends, you must provide downloaded from www.shareview.co.uk
Equiniti with your bank or building society account details. or requested by contacting Equiniti.
This is a quick and secure method of payment.
Dividend payment direct to bank Equiniti can convert your dividend into your local currency and For more details on this service and the costs
account for overseas shareholders send it direct to your local bank account. This service is available involved please contact Equiniti.
in over 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.
of company communications including our Annual Report,
dividend payments, dividend confirmations and the availability of
online voting for all general meetings. Each time GSK publishes
shareholder documents you will receive an email containing a link
to the document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your Please register at www.shareview.co.uk.
share balance and movements, update your address and
dividend payment instructions and register your votes for
our general meetings.
Deduplication of publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of mailings, you may have more Please contact Equiniti.
than one account. Please contact Equiniti and they will arrange
for your accounts to be merged into one for your convenience
and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated For online transactions, please log on to:
(please note that market trading hours form or in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, online, by www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, telephone or via postal dealing service provided by Equiniti For telephone transactions, please call:
Monday to Friday (excluding public Financial Services Limited. 0345 603 7037 (in the UK) or
holidays in England and Wales)) +44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK).
Lines are open from 8.00am to 4.30pm
UK time, Monday to Friday (excluding
UK public holidays).
For postal transactions, please call:
0371 384 2991* to request a
dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring An application form can be requested
a share certificate. The service provides a facility for you to hold from www.shareview.co.uk or by
your shares in a nominee account sponsored by the company. contacting Equiniti.
You will continue to receive dividend payments and can attend
and vote at the company’s general meetings. Shareholders’
names do not appear on the publicly available share register
and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from www.shareview.co.uk
Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK shares. or can be requested by telephoning Equiniti,
on 0345 0700 720. Lines are open 8.00am
to 4.30pm for dealing, and until 5.30pm for
enquiries Monday to Friday (excluding public
holidays in England and Wales).
* Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales).
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a
stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
294 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 295
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Shareholders services and contacts continued
ADS Depositary Contacts
The ADR programme is administered by J.P. Morgan Investor relations
Chase Bank, N.A: Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
Regular Correspondence: UK
EQ Shareowner Services 980 Great West Road
P.O. Box 64504 Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
St. Paul, MN 55164-0504 Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Delivery of Stock Certificates and Overnight Mail: US
EQ Shareowner Services
5 Crescent Drive
110 Centre Point Curve, Suite 101
Philadelphia PA 19112
Mendota Heights, MN 55120-4100
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
www.shareowneronline.com Tel: +1 215 751 4611 (outside the US)
General: +1 800 990 1135 GSK Response Center
From outside the US: +1 651 453 2128
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
The Depository also provides Global Invest Direct, a direct
Share scam alert
ADS purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADS
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy
holders. For details on how to enrol please visit www.adr.com
your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a
or call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
highly organised financial scam.
Donating shares to Save the Children
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership Conduct Authority at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its
with Save the Children to share our expertise and resources consumer helpline:
with the aim of helping to save the lives of one million children.
Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
Tel: +44 (0)20 7066 1000 (outside the UK)
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating
them to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated * Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, except UK public
holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
and sold by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to
help them reach the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares
to Save the Children free of charge.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement
to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share dealing should be obtained from
a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
Stock Exchange announcement notifications
We provide shareholders with a service to receive automatic
email notifications when we publish a stock exchange
announcement. To receive email notifications, please sign up
for announcements at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the Section 302: Corporate responsibility for
company because our shares are quoted on the NYSE in the financial reports
form of ADS.
Sarbanes-Oxley requires for the CEO and the CFO to complete
formal certifications, confirming that:
NYSE rules
– they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F;
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in – based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F
the US, provided that we explain any significant variations. contains no material misstatements or omissions;
This explanation is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be
– based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
accessed from the SEC'S EDGAR database or via our website.
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
NYSE rules require us to file annual and interim written
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of
affirmations concerning our Audit & Risk Committee (ARC)
the dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report
and our statement on significant differences in corporate
on Form 20-F;
governance.
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 disclosure controls and procedures that ensure that material
information is made known to them, and have evaluated the
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in
effectiveness of these controls and procedures as at the year
the US, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
end, the results of such evaluation being contained in the
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide-ranging piece of legislation
annual report on Form 20-F;
concerned largely with financial reporting and corporate
governance. – they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable
As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
CFO and to the ARC. It is chaired by the Company Secretary
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
and its members consist of senior managers from finance, legal,
and
corporate communications and investor relations.
– they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
are invited to attend the Disclosure Committee’s meetings
period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have
periodically. The Committee has responsibility for considering
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially,
the materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining
the company’s internal control over financial reporting, and
the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility for the
they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of
timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review of
internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditor
the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2021, the Committee met
and the ARC, all significant deficiencies and material
18 times.
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect
contains a statement as to whether a member of the ARC is adversely the company’s ability to record, process,
an audit committee financial expert, as defined in rules under summarise and report financial information, and any fraud
Sarbanes-Oxley. Such a statement for the relevant members (regardless of materiality) involving persons that have a
of the ARC (Charles Bancroft) is included in the Board significant role in the company’s internal control over financial
Committee information area of the Corporate Governance reporting.
report on page 93 and in his biography on page 84. Additional
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision
disclosure requirements arise under section 302 and section
and with the participation of its management, including the CEO
404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and
and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of
procedures and internal control over financial reporting.
the Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at 31
December 2021.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the
controls and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure
controls and procedures can only provide reasonable
assurance of achieving their control objectives.
296 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 297
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation continued
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications The Group exports certain pharmaceutical, vaccine and
and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure consumer products to Iran, via sales by non-US entities that
controls and procedures in March 2022, following which the are not subsidiaries of a US entity, to two privately held Iranian
certifications will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s distributors.
Form 20-F.
The Group does not regularly receive information regarding
the identity of its distributors' downstream customers and
Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal
intermediaries in Iran, and it is possible that these parties
control over financial reporting
include entities, such as government-owned hospitals and
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of pharmacies, that are owned directly or indirectly by the Iranian
Sarbanes-Oxley, the following report is provided by government or by persons or entities sanctioned in connection
management in respect of the company’s internal control over with terrorism or proliferation activities.
financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)
Because the Group does not regularly receive information
under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
regarding the identity of its distributors' downstream customers
(the Exchange Act)):
it cannot establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales
– management is responsible for establishing and maintaining potentially attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities.
Group. Internal control over financial reporting is designed As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of (£11.5 million) and net profits (£5.6 million) from the Group's
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements sales to Iran in 2021.
for external purposes in accordance with IFRS;
The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical
– management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by
of internal control over financial reporting based on the Hezbollah or other groups that are designated by the United
framework, Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) States pursuant to Executive Order 13224. Again, the Group
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of does not deal directly with such hospitals or facilities and
the Treadway Commission (COSO); instead sells through distributors. The Group is unable to
– there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially
over financial reporting during 2021 that have materially attributable to reportable activities. As a result, the Group is
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the reporting the entire gross revenues (£30.7 million) and net
Group’s internal control over financial reporting; profits (£0.6 million) from the Group's sales to Lebanon in 2021.
– management has assessed the effectiveness of internal Unless noted, the Group intends to continue the activities
control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2021 described above.
and its conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form In addition to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, US law
20-F; and generally restricts dealings by US persons and dealings that
– Deloitte LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial otherwise are subject to US jurisdiction with certain countries or
statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December territories that are subject to comprehensive sanctions, currently
2021, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s Crimea, Cuba, Donetsk People's Republic, Iran, Luhansk
internal control over financial reporting under Auditing People's Republic, North Korea and Syria, as well as with the
Standard 2201 of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Government of Venezuela (though not with the country of
Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with the Venezuela as a whole). The Group does business, via non-US
Group’s Form 20-F. entities (which are not owned or controlled by US entities), in
certain such jurisdictions. While we believe the Group complies
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act with all applicable US sanctions in all material respects, such
laws are complex and continue to evolve rapidly.
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make
specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types of
dealings with Iran, or controlled transactions or dealings with
government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities
sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are
not prohibited by US law and do not involve US persons.Other statutory disclosures continued
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure
To ensure a consistent approach to political contributions As a result, the definitions may cover legitimate business
across the Group, in 2009 a global policy was introduced activities not in the ordinary sense considered to be political
to voluntarily stop all corporate political contributions. donations or political expenditure, nor are they designed to
support any political party or independent election candidate.
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2021,
the Group did not make any political donations to EU or Therefore, notwithstanding our policy, and while we do
non-EU organisations. not intend to make donations to any EU political parties or
organisations, nor to incur any EU political expenditure, we
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance
annually seek shareholder authorisation for any inadvertent
with the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue
expenditure.
to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee
(PAC) that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that the
GSK employees. company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the
legislation.
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts
and recipients of contributions are governed by the PAC Board This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to £100,000
of Directors. Contributions to the PAC are made by participating each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following
eligible employees exercising their legal right to pool their the introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and
resources and make political contributions, which are subject Referendums Act 2000. The authority has since been
to strict limitations under US law. In 2021, a total of renewed annually.
US$298,000 (2020 – US$366,750) was donated to
political organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
English law requires prior shareholder approval for political
contributions to EU political parties and independent election
candidates as well as for any EU political expenditure. The
definitions of political donations, political expenditure and
political organisations used in the legislation are, however,
quite broad. In particular, the definition of EU political
organisations may extend to bodies such as those concerned
with policy review, law reform, the representation of the
business community and special interest groups such as
those concerned with the environment, which the company
and its subsidiaries might wish to support.
298 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 299
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint
arrangements, the address of the registered office and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2021 are
disclosed below. Unless otherwise stated the share capital disclosed comprises Ordinary shares which are indirectly held by
GlaxoSmithKline plc. The percentage held by class of share is stated where this is less than 100%. Unless otherwise stated,
all subsidiary companies have their registered office and are tax resident in their country of incorporation.
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries
1506369 Alberta ULC Common 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary AB T2P 4J8, Canada
Action Potential Venture Capital Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Adechsa GmbH (ii) Ordinary c/o PRV Provides Treuhandgesellschaft AG, Dorfstrasse 38, 6341, Baar,
Switzerland
Allen & Hanburys Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 24 Abimbola Way, Ilasamaja, Isolo, Lagos, Nigeria
Allen Farmaceutica, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H. Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude 5i, 4.Stock, 1120, Vienna, Austria
Beecham Group p.l.c 5p Shares 'B'; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
20p Shares 'A'
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited Ordinary 38 Quality Road, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 618809, Singapore
Beecham Portuguesa-Produtos Farmacêuticos e Químicos, Lda Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
1495-131, Alges, Portugal
Beecham S.A. (ii) Ordinary avenue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. (ii) Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
Cascan GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, D-81675, Munich, Germany
Castleton Investment Ltd (In Liquidation) Ordinary C/O DTOS, 19 Cybercity, 10th Floor Standard Chartered Tower, Ebene,
Mauritius
Cellzome GmbH Ordinary Meyerhofstrasse 1, 69117, Heidelberg, Germany
Cellzome Limited (in liquidation since year end) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
Charles Midgley Limited (in liquidation since year end) 7% Cumulative Preference; 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
Ordinary
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Limited (in liquidation since year end) Ordinary; 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
Preference (99.97%)
Clarges Pharmaceutical Trustees Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Colleen Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Corixa Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Dealcyber Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Desarrollo Energía Solar Alternativa S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Duncan Flockhart Australia Pty Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc. Common 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
Etex Farmaceutica Ltda Social Capital Avenue Andres Bello 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, C.P.
7550611, Chile
Genelabs Technologies, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento CA 95833, United States
Glaxo Group Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (ii) Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 82 Marine Road, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria
Glaxo Laboratories Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
Glaxo New Zealand Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary Level 2 E.2, Generator at GridAKL, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter,
Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Properties BV Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
Glaxo Trustees Limited (ii) (in liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, D-81675, Munich, Germany
Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
Glaxo Wellcome Farmacêutica, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
1495-131, Alges, Portugal
Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (ii) (iii) Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector 1, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 628413, Singapore
Glaxo Wellcome Production Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, ThailandOther statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ordinary Poligono Industrial Allendeduero, Avenida de Extremadura, 3, Aranda de
Duero, 09400, Burgos, Spain
Glaxo, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (ii) Ordinary 41 Creek Road, Apapa, Lagos, PMB 1401, Nigeria
Glaxochem Pte Ltd (iii) Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
1495-131, Alges, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. (In Liquidation) Ordinary 5th Floor DKSH Building, No.797 Preah Monivong Boulevard (Co,
Sangkat Phsar Deum Thakov, Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh,
Cambodia
GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd Ordinary Room 901, 902, 903, 905, 908, 909 and 910, Unit 901, Floor 9, No. 56
Mid 4th East Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited Equity F1-3, No.18 Building, 999 Huanke Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone,
Shanghai, 201210, China
GlaxoSmithKline (Cyprus) Limited Ordinary Arch. Makariou III, 2-4, Capital Center, 9th Floor, Nicosia, P.C. 1065,
Cyprus
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ordinary 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th and 6th floors, Zone
1, District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel
GlaxoSmithKline (Malta) Limited Ordinary 1, First Floor, De La Cruz Avenue, Qormi, QRM2458, Malta
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (ii) Ordinary Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline AB Ordinary Hemvarnsg. 9, 171 54, Solna, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline AG Ordinary Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada (iv) Quota Luanda, Bairro Petrangol, Estrada de Cacuaco n ° 288, Angola
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GlaxoSmithKline AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Asia Private Limited Equity Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands,
Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd. Ordinary 277 Niudun Road, Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanhai, China
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Ordinary 2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ordinary 637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ordinary: Rue de l'Institut 89 B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium
Preference
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Quotas Estrada dos Banderiantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street, Suite 1300,
Wilmington DE 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada Social Capital Avenue Andres Bello No. 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, C.P.
7550611, Chile
GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ordinary Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogotá, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. (ii) Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o. Quotas Zmja od Bosne broj 7-7a, Sarajevo, 71000, Bosnia and Herzegovina
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o. Equity Capital Ulica Damira Tomljanovica Gavrana 15, Zagreb, Croatia
GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd Ordinary Omladinskih brigada 88, New Belgrade, City of Belgrade, 11070, Serbia
GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A. Ordinary Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
GlaxoSmithKline Eesti OU Ordinary Lõõtsa 8a, Tallinn, 11415, Estonia
GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Municipio de San Salvador, Departamento de San Salvador, El Salvador
GlaxoSmithKline EOOD Ordinary 115 G Tsarigradsko Shose Blvd., floor 9, Mladost Region, Sofia, 1784,
Bulgaria
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A. Ordinary 3ra. Av. 13-78 Zona 10, Torre Citibank, Nivel 8, Guatemala City,
Guatemala
300 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 301
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, Oslo, NO-0283, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street, Suite 1300,
Wilmington DE 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A. Ordinary Tegucigalpa, MDC, Honduras
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Class A Common; 7333 Mississauga Road North, Mississauga Ontario L5N 6L4, Canada
Class C Preference
GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ordinary 19 Par-La-Ville Road, Hamilton, HM11, Bermuda
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited A Ordinary; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
B Ordinary
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited Deferred; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Ordinary
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Holdings Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Services Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ordinary 9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92 Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 04386,
Korea, Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Latvia SIA Ordinary Duntes iela 3, Riga, Latvia
GlaxoSmithKline Lietuva UAB Ordinary Ukmerges st. 120, Vilnius, LT-08105, Lithuania
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary 23/F., Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon,
Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA Ordinary Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A. Ordinary 42-44 Angle Bd, Rachidi et Abou Hamed El Glaza, Casablanca, Morocco
GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Limited Ordinary H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ordinary A: Calzada, Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo, Huipulco,
Ordinary B Delegacion Tlalpan, 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ordinary Level 2 E.2, Generator @GridAKL, 12 Madden Street, Wynyard Quarter,
Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ordinary Piispansilta 9A, P.O. Box 24, Espoo, FIN-02230, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A. Ordinary Av. Javier Prado Oeste, 995, San Isidro, LIMA 27, Peru
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ordinary Nykaer 68, DK-2605, Brondby, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude 5i, 4.Stock, Wien, 1120
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited Ordinary Likoni Road, Nairobi, 78392 - 00507, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112 Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Petaling Jaya, 46300
Selangor, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd Ordinary 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A. Ordinary Autopista Florencia del Castillo, kilómetro siete, Oficentro TerraCampus,
edificio uno, cuarto piso, San Diego, Cartago, 30302, Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ordinary A; Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, 60-322, Poznan, Poland
Ordinary B;
Ordinary C;
Ordinary D
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ordinary Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC Chartered Capital Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ordinary 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico, Inc. Common The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Puerto Rico, Inc, c/o Fast
Solutions, LLC, 252 Ponce de Leon Avenue, Floor 20, San Juan, 00918,
Puerto RicoOther statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A. Ordinary Blue Mall Tower, Floor 23 Ave., Winston Churchill 95, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ordinary Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ordinary Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Single Member A.E.B.E. Ordinary 266 Kifissias Avenue, Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (ii) (viii) Partnership 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Slovakia s.r.o. Ordinary Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (iii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L. Ordinary Immeuble REGUS, Lot B17, Centre Urbain Nord, Tunis, Tunisia
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A. Registered Provisory Stock Salto 1105, CP 11.200 Montevideo, Uruguay
GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ordinary Urbanizacion La Trinidad, Calle luis De Camoems, Edif No 115-117
Apatado Posta, Caracas, 1010, Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (ii) (iv) Equity Capital The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, 7th Floor Unit 701, Ho
Chi Minh City, Vietnam
GlycoVaxyn AG (iv) Common; Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland
Preferred A;
Preferred B;
Preferred C
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GSK Australia NVD Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
GSK Bangladesh Private Limited Ordinary Sweden Tower, 1, Harinnachala, Konabari, Gazipur, Bangladesh
GSK Biopharma Argentina S.A. Nominative Non Endorseable Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112 Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Petaling Jaya,, 46300
Selangor, Malaysia
GSK Capital B.V. (iii) (v) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Capital K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o. Ordinary ul. Rzymowskiego 53, 02-697, Warsaw, Poland
GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana Ordinary Ameriška ulica 8,, Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia
GSK Enterprise Management Co, Ltd Ordinary Floor 4, 18 Lane 999 Huanke Road, No. 1358 Zhongke Road, Shanghai,
China
GSK Equity Investments, Limited Units Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103,
Harrisburg PA 17110, United States
GSK Finance (No 2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Finance (No.3) plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK India Global Services Private Limited Equity Level 1, 2 & 3 Luxor North Tower, Bagmane Capital Business Park Outer
Ring Road, Bangalore, Karnataka, 560037, India
GSK International Holding and Finance BV Ordinary Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GSK Kazakhstan LLP Participation Interest 273, Furmanov Street, Almaty, Medeu District, 050059, Kazakhstan
GSK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Pharma Vietnam Company Limited Chartered Capital Unit 702/703 7th Floor, The Metropolitan Tower, 235 Dong Khoi Street,
Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam
GSK Pharmaceutical Trading S.A. (ii) (iv) Ordinary Bucharest, 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th floor,
discussions room 01, District 5, Romania
GSK PSC Poland sp. z o.o. Equal and indivisible shares ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznań, 60-322, Pol
GSK Services Sp z o.o. Ordinary Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, 60-322, Poznan, Poland
GSK Vaccines BV Ordinary Hullenbergweg 85, 1101 CL, Amsterdam, Netherlands
GSK Vaccines GmbH Ordinary Emil-von-Behring-Str.76, 35041 Marburg, Germany
GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, 53100, Siena, Italy
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, 53100, Siena, Italy
GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH (ii) Ordinary Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 27, 83607, Holzkirchen, Germany
HGS France S.a.r.l. (ii) (iv) Ordinary 52-54, Rue de la Belle Feuille, Boulogne-Billancourt, 92100, France
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Common 2323, boul. Du Parc Technologique, Québec Québec G1P 4R8, Canada
302 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 303
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (ii) Quotas Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
1495-131, Algés, Portugal
InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH (ii) Quotas Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, A-1120, Vienna,
Austria
J&J Technologies, LC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 100 Shockoe Slip, 2nd Floor, Richmond
VA 23219,, United States
JSC GlaxoSmithKline Trading Ordinary Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 3, Premises XV, Room 1,
125167, Moscow, Russian Federation
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoires Paucourt (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoires Saint-Germain (ii) Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V. Ordinary A; Calzada Mexico Xochimilco, 4900 San Lorenzo Huipulco, District Federal
Ordinary B Mexico, 14370, Mexico
Laboratórios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (ii) Ordinary Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
1495-131, Algés, Portugal
Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA Ordinary Calle Luis de Camoens, Edificio GlaxoSmithKline, No. 115-117, Urb. La
Trinidad, Caracas, Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda. Ordinary Rua Professor Joao Cavalheiro Salem, no.1077, Bairro de Bonsucesso,
Municipality of Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, CEP 07243-580, Brazil
Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (ii) Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
1495-131, Alges, Portugal
Mixis Genetics Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH
Montrose Pharma Company Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary Quota H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
Penn Labs Inc. (ii) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Setfirst Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Sitari Pharma, Inc. Common Stock Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Ordinary Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
LDA (ii) 1495-131, Alges, Portugal
SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (ii) Ordinary House-2/A, Road-138,Gulshan-1, Dhaka, 1212, Bangladesh
SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited Ordinary 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary BDO, Beax Lane House, Mercer Street, Lower, D02 DH60, Dublin,
D02 DH60, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH
SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C. Quotas Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
SmithKline Beecham Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Trustees Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Port Louis Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary C/o CIM Corporate Services Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell
Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan Trustee Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited (ii)
Stiefel Dominicana, S.R.L. (ii) (iv) Ordinary Ave. Lope de Vega #29, Torre NovoCentro, Local 406, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
Stiefel Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
Stiefel India Private Limited Equity 1, Battery House, Bhulabhai Desai Raod, Mumbai, Maharashtra,
400026, India
Stiefel Laboratories (Maidenhead) Ltd (In Liquidation) Ordinary BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH
Stiefel Laboratories Legacy (Ireland) Limited Ordinary Unit 2 Building 2500, Avenue 2000 Cork Airport Business Park, Cork,
Ireland
Stiefel Laboratories Limited (in liquidation since year end) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector, 628413, SingaporeOther statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Stiefel Maroc SARL (ii) (iv) Ordinary 275 Boulevard Zerktouni, Casablanca, Morocco
Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
Stiefel West Coast LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Strebor Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Tesaro Bio GmbH (In Liquidation) Ordinary Poststrasse 6, 6300 Zug, Switzerland
Tesaro Bio Netherlands B.V Ordinary Joop Geesinkweg 901, 1114 AB, Amsterdam-Duivendrecht, Netherlands
Tesaro Bio Sweden AB Common c/o BDO Malardalen AB, Skatt Box 24193, 104 51, Stockholm, Sweden
Tesaro Development, Ltd. Ordinary Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda
Tesaro, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
The Sydney Ross Co. (ii) Ordinary Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing NJ 08628, United States
UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (ii) Ordinary 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,, Seksyen
13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Malaysia
Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (ii) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Consumer Products Limited (in liquidation Ordinary BDO LLP, 5 Temple Square Temple Street, Liverpool, L2 5RH
since year end)
Wellcome Developments Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
Wellcome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Operations Pty Ltd (ii) (iv) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Alacer Corp. Common 68 Corporate Service Company d/b/a CSC - Lawyers Incorporating ,
Service, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N , Sacramento, California
95833-3505, United States
Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E. New Monetary Shares 90.7 El Salam City 11491, PO Box 3001, Cairo, Egypt
(99.5%)
Beecham Enterprises Inc. (ii) Common 59.8 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Biddle Sawyer Limited Equity 68 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
Block Drug Company, Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing NJ 08628, United States
Block Drug Corporation (ii) Common 68 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing NJ 08628, United States
British Pharma Group Limited (i) Capital (50%) 50 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Consumer Healthcare Intermediate Holdings Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Duncan Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 68 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
Ex-Lax, Inc. Common 68 The Prentice Hall Corporation System, Puerto Rico, Inc., c/o, Citi Tower,
252 Ponce de Leon Avenue, Floor 20, San Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico
Ferrosan ApS A Shares; 68 Delta Park 37, 2665, Vallensbæk Strand, Denmark
B Shares
Ferrosan International ApS Ordinary 68 Delta Park 37, 2665, Vallensbæk Strand, Denmark
Ferrosan S.R.L. Registered Capital 68 178/C Calea Turzii, Cluj-Napoca, Cluj County, Romania
Galvani Bioelectronics Inc. Common 55 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Galvani Bioelectronics Limited A Ordinary; 55 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
B Ordinary (0%)
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Ordinary 75 PO Box 22617, Area No 56 to 73, Warehouse City, First Stage Al
Khomrah, Jeddah 21416, Saudi Arabia
Glaxo Wellcome Ceylon Limited Ordinary; 67.8 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
Ordinary B
GlaxoSmithKline (Suzhou) Trading Co., Ltd Registered Capital 68 No.699 Gangpu Road, Wusongjiang Science and Technology Industrial
Park, Wuzhong Economic & Technical Development Zone, Suzhou, China
GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd Ordinary 90 No. 65, the Fifth Avenue, Tai Feng Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic and
Technolog, Tianjin, 300457, China
GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A. Ordinary 99.99 Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Wilaya de Boumerdes, Algeria
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Produtos para Consumo Quotas 68 Av das Americas, 3500, 4th floor, rooms 407-420, , Rio de Janeiro, RJ,
e Saude Ltda 22621-000, Brazil
304 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 305
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (China) Co. Ltd Ordinary 68 Room 506, No. 1 Shen’gang Boulevard, Lin-gang Special Area of China
Pilot Free Trade Z, Shanghai, Shanghai, 200000, China
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Hong Kong) Limited Ordinary 68 23/F., Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon,
Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 68 12 Riverwalk, Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Overseas) Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 68 13th Floor, Unit 13.05 and 13.06 Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road,
Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) IP Limited (iv) Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (US) IP LLC LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare AB Ordinary 68 Hemvärnsgatan 9, P.O. Box 516, 169 29, Solna, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Aps Ordinary 68 Delta Park 37, 2665, Vallensbæk Strand, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 68 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington New South Wales NSW 2115, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. Ordinary 68 Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55G, 3811 LP, Amersfoort, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Colombia SAS Ordinary 68 Carrera 7 No. 113 - 43 Piso 4, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Czech Republic s.r.o. Ordinary 68 Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance No.2 Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finland Oy Ordinary 68 Piispansilta 9A, Fin-02230, Espoo, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 68 Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, A-1120, Vienna,
Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital 68 Barthstr. 4, 80339, München, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Hellas Single Ordinary 68 274 Kifissias Avenue Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
Member Societe Anonyme
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (No.2) A; 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited B (0%);
Preference
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ordinary 68 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(Ireland) (No 3) Limited (iii) (In Liquidation)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ordinary 68 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(Ireland) (No.2) Unlimited Company (iii) (In Liquidation)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. Ordinary 68 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Korea Co., Ltd. Ordinary 68 9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92 Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 04386,
Korea, Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare L.L.C. LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive Suite 103,
Harrisburg PA 17110, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Mexico, S. De R.L. Ordinary 68 Boulevard Adolfo Ruiz Cortines No. 3720, Torre 3 Piso 11, Colonia
de C.V. Jardines del Pedregal, Alcaldía Alvaro Obregón, Ciudad de México , C.P.
01900, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare New Zealand ULC Ordinary 68 Level 2 E.2 12 Madden Street, Auckland Central, Auckland, 1010,
New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Norway AS Ordinary 68 Drammensveien 288, Lysaker, 1326, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pakistan Limited Ordinary (85.8%) 58.3 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 68 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 68 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 68 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 68 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.r.l Ordinary 68 Via Zambeletti snc, Baranzate, 20021, Milan, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Saudi Limited Ordinary 68 603 Salamah Tower, 6th Floor, Madinah Road, Al-Salamah District,
Jeddah 21425, Saudi Arabia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary 68 Lot 89, Jalan Enggang,, Ampang / Hulu Kelang Industrial Estate, Selangor
Darul Ehsan, 68000 Ampang, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Slovakia s. r. o. Ownership Interest 68 Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare South Africa (Pty) Ordinary 68 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
Ltd 2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. Ordinary 68 Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, 60-322, Poznan, Poland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SRL Ordinary 68 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 6th floor (Zone 2), District
5, Bucharest, RomaniaOther statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare ULC / A Class Preference; 68 595 Burrard Street, Suite 2600 Three Bentall Centre, P.O. Box 49314
GlaxoSmithKline Soins De Sante Aux Consommateurs SRI Common Vancouver BC V7X 1L3, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Vietnam Company Charter Capital 68 Floor 16, Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho
Limited (ii) Chi Minh City, Vietnam
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. Partnership Capital 59.8 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, Produtos para a Ordinary Quota 68 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
Saude e Higiene, Lda 1495-131, Algés, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (vi) Ordinary 46.4 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Private Limited Equity 68 Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Costa Rica S.A. Ordinary 68 San José 300 Este de la Rotonda Betania, Carretera a Sabanilla,
Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited Ordinary 68 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO Ordinary 68 premises III, Room 9, floor 6, Presnenskaya nab. 10, 123112, Moscow,
Russian Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 68 Barthstr. 4, 80339, München, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare Ukraine O.O.O. Ownership Interest 68 Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Cumulative Redeemable 68 Likoni Road, PO Box 78392, Nairobi, Kenya
Preference;
Ordinary
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ordinary 82.6 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Panama S.A. Non-qualified preference 68 Urbanizacion Industrial Juan D, Calles A Y B, Republic of Panama,
shares; Panama
Ordinary
GlaxoSmithKline Paraguay S.A. Ordinary 68 Oficial Gilberto Aranda 333, Planta Alta casi Salvador del Mundo,
Asunción, Paraguay
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Equity 75 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E. Ordinary 91.2 Boomerang Office Building - Land No. 46, Zone (J) - 1st District, Town
Center - 5th Tagammoe, New Cairo City, Egypt
GlaxoSmithKline Santé Grand Public Ordinary 68 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GlaxoSmithKline Technology (Taizhou) Co., Ltd Ordinary 68 Room 708 in Building D, Phase II of New Drug Innovation Base, Taizhou,
Jiangsu Province, 225300, China
GlaxoSmithKline Tuketici Sagligi Anonim Sirketi Nominative 68 Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline-Consumer Kft. Membership 68 H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GSK Canada Holding Company Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK CH Caricam Sociedad De Responsabilidad Participation 68 Urbanizacion Industrial Juan D, Calles A Y B, Republic of Panama,
Limitada (ii) Panama
GSK CH Kazakhstan LLP Charter Capital 68 32 A Manasa Str., Bostandyk District, Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan
GSK Consumer Health, Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Capital NL B.V. (iii) (v) Shares 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Consumer Healthcare Capital US LLC LLC Interests 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Chile SpA CLP Interests 68 Av. Andrés Bello N°2687, 25th floor, Las Condes, Chile
GSK Consumer Healthcare Egypt Limited Ordinary 68 North 90th street, Boomerang Building, 5th District, Cairo, Egypt
GSK Consumer Healthcare Egypt LLC Quotas 68 North 90th street, Boomerang Building, 5th District, Cairo, Egypt
GSK Consumer Healthcare Export Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (No.1) Limited Non-voting preference 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
shares;
Ordinary
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (No.3) Limited Non-voting preference 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
shares;
Ordinary
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (No.5) Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (No.6) Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (No.7) Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) Inc. Common; 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
Preference Stock 19808, United States
306 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 307
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings No. 2 LLC (iii) Unit 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Insurance Limited Ordinary 68 Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St Peter Port, GY1 4AT, Guernsey
GSK Consumer Healthcare Israel Ltd (iv) Ordinary 68 25 Basel Street, Petech Tikva 49510, Israel
GSK Consumer Healthcare Levice s.r.o. Ordinary 68 Priemyselny Park Gena, Ul. E. Sachsa 4-6, 934 01, Levice, Slovakia
GSK Consumer Healthcare Peru S.R.L Ordinary 68 Av Jorge Basadre 349, piso 5, San Isidro, Lima, 05W-109, Peru
GSK Consumer Healthcare SARL Ordinary 68 Route de I'Etraz, 1197 Prangins, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Schweiz AG Ordinary 68 Suurstoffi 14, 6343, Rotkreuz, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Services, Inc. Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Singapore Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 68 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GSK Consumer Healthcare Trinidad and Tobago Limited Ordinary: 68 5th Floor Algico Plaza, 91-93 St. Vincent Street, Port of Spain, Trinidad
Preference and Tobago
GSK-Gebro Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary (60%) 40.8 Bahnhofbichl 13, 6391 Fieberbrunn, Kitzbühel, Austria
Iodosan S.p.A. Ordinary 68 Via Zambeletti snc,, Baranzate,, 20021, Milan, Italy
Kuhs GmbH Ordinary 68 Barthstr. 4, 80339, München, Germany
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. Ordinary 78.3 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, 28760,
Madrid, Spain
Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C. Quotas 98.2 Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
N.C.H. – Nutrition Consumer Health Ltd (ii) Ordinary 68 14 Hamephalsim St, Petach Tikva, Israel
P.T. SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Ordinary A; 99 Jl. Pulobuaran Raya, Kav. III DD/2,3,4, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung,
Ordinary B (0%) Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
P.T. Sterling Products Indonesia A Shares; 68 Graha Paramita Building, 5th F, Jalan Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Jakarta,
B Shares 12940, Indonesia
Panadol GmbH Ordinary 68 Barthstr. 4, 80339, München, Germany
PF Consumer Healthcare 1 LLC Membership Interest 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
PF Consumer Healthcare B.V. Class A; 68 Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55G, 3811 LP Amersfoort, Netherlands
Class B
PF Consumer Healthcare Brazil Importadora e Distribuidora Quota 68 Barueri, at Avenida Ceci, No.1900, Block III, Part 67, Tambore District,
de Medicamentos Ltda São Paulo, 06460, Brazil
PF Consumer Healthcare Canada ULC/PF Soins De Sante Common; 68 595 Burrard Street, Suite 2600 Three Bentall Centre, P.O. Box 49314
SRI Preferred Vancouver BC V7X 1L3, Canada
PF Consumer Healthcare Holding B.V. Ordinary 68 Van Asch van Wijckstraat 55G, 3811 LP Amersfoort, Netherlands
PF Consumer Healthcare UK Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
PF Consumer Ireland Company Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 68 BDO, Beax Lane House, Mercer Street, Lower, D02 DH60, Dublin, D02
DH60, Ireland
PF Consumer Taiwan LLC Interests 68 The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange
Street, Wilmington DE 19801, United States
Pfizer Biotech Corporation Ordinary (55%) 37.4 24F, No. 66, Sec 1, Zhong Xiao W. Rd, Taipei 100, Taiwan
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare AB Ordinary 68 Vetenskapsvagen 10, SE-191 90, Sollentuna, Sweden
Pfizer Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 68 Linkstrasse 10, 10785, Berlin, Germany
Pfizer Consumer Manufacturing Italy S.r.l. Quota (no stock) 68 90, Via Nettunese, 04011, Aprilia (Prov. di Latin), Italy
Pfizer Laboratories PFE (Pty) Ltd. Common 68 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
Pfizer PFE Colombia S.A.S Common 68 Carrera 7 No. 113 - 43 Piso 4, Colombia
PHIVCO-1 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
PHIVCO-2 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
PRISM PCH Limited Non-Voting Shares; 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Voting Shares;
PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia Class A; 95 JL. Pulobuaran Raya Kav.III/DD 2,3,4 KWS. Industri, Pulogadung,
Class B (0%) Jatinegara, Cakung, Jakarta Timur, Indonesia
PT GSK Consumer Healthcare Indonesia Ordinary 68 Graha Paramita Building, 5th F, Jalan Denpasar Raya Blok D-2,, Kuningan,
JAKARTA SELATAN, 12940, Indonesia
PT. Bina Dentalindo (In Liquidation) Ordinary 68 Gedung Graha Ganesha Lantai 3, Jl Raya Bekasi Km 17, No5, Jakarta
Timur 13930, Indonesia
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare LLC (ii) Common Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ordinary (55%) 37.4 Cheng Lin Zhuang Industrial Zone, Dong Li District, Tianjin, 300163,
Ltd China
SmithKline Beecham (Private) Limited Ordinary (99.6%) 67.8 World Trade Center, Level 34, West Tower, Echelon Square, Colombo 1,
Sri LankaOther statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
SmithKline Beecham Research Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham S.A. Ordinary 68 Ctra de Ajalvir Km 2.500, Alcala de Henares, 28806, Madrid, Spain
SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O. Participation Interest 97 Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 42,
125167, Moscow, Russian Federation
Stafford-Miller (Ireland) Limited Ordinary 68 Clocherane, Youghal Road, Dungarvan, Co. Waterford, Ireland
Stafford-Miller Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary; 68 Clocherane, Youghal Road, Dungarvan, Co. Waterford, Dungarvan,
Non-Cumulative Non Waterford, Ireland
Redeemable Preference
Sterling Drug (Malaya) Sdn Berhad Ordinary 68 Lot 89, Jalan Enggang, Ampang/Hulu Kelang Industrial Estate, Selangor
Darul Ehsan, 68000 Ampang, Malaysia
Sterling Products International, Incorporated (ii) Common 68 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Stiefel Consumer Healthcare (UK) Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Stiefel Egypt LLC (ii) Quotas 99 Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 68 BDO, Beax Lane House, Mercer Street, Lower, D02 DH60, Dublin, D02
DH60, Ireland
Treerly Health Co., Ltd Capital Contribution 68 Unit 01A, Room 3901, No 16. East Zhujiang Road, Tianhe District,
Guangzhou City, the PRC, China
ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited (ii); (iv) Ordinary 78.3 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
ViiV HealthCare BV Ordinary 78.3 Van Asch van, Wijckstraat 55h, 3811 LP Amersfoort, The Netherlands,
Netherlands
ViiV Healthcare Company Common 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
ViiV Healthcare Finance 1 Limited (In Liquidation) Ordinary 78.3 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, United Kingdom
ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary; 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Redeemable Preference
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Prinzregentenplatz 9, 81675, Munchen, Germany
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
ViiV Healthcare Hong Kong Limited (ii) Ordinary 78.3 23/F Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Harbour City, Tsimshatsui,
Kowloon, Hong Kong
ViiV Healthcare K.K. Ordinary 78.3 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan
ViiV Healthcare Limited Class A; 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Class B (0%);
Class C (0%);
Class D1 (0%);
Class D2 (0%);
Deferred;
Class E 5% Cumulative
Preference (0%)
ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd Ordinary 78.3 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia Victoria VIC 3155, Australia
ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Centro International de Mercadeo, 90 carr. 165 Torre 2, Suite 800,
Guaynabo, 00968, Puerto Rico
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. Quota 78.3 Viale dell’Agricoltura 7, 37135, Verona, Italy
ViiV Healthcare SAS Ordinary 78.3 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
ViiV Healthcare sprl Ordinary 78.3 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC (ii) Participation Interest 78.3 Leningradskiy Prospect 37A, Building 4, Floor 2, Premises XIV, Room 28,
125167, Moscow, Russian Federation
ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.5) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.6) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.7) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare ULC Common 78.3 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary AB T2P 4J8, Canada
ViiV Healthcare Venture LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
ViiVHIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda Quota 78.3 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
1495-131, Algés, Portugal
Vog AU PTY LTD (ii) Ordinary; 68 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington New South Wales NSW 2115, Australia
Redeemable Preference
Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited (ii) Ordinary 46.4 2A Association Avenue, Ilupeju Industrial Estate, Lagos, PO Box 3199,
Nigeria
Wyeth Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd Registered Capital 68 4 Baodai West Road, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, 215128, China
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Company (vii) Partnership 68 No registered address required, Puerto Rico general partnership, Contact
entity contact for any questions, Puerto Rico
308 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 309
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Associates
GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc Common (40%) 39.9 23rd Floor, The Finance Centre, 26th Street Corner 9th Avenue, Bonifacio
Global City, Taguig City, 1634, Philippines
Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP Partnership Interest (25%) 25 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands
Kurma Biofund II FCPR Partnership Interest (32.1%) 32.1 24 rue Royale, 75008, Paris, France
Longwood Fund I, LP Partnership Interest (35%) 35 The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston, MA 02199
Medicxi Ventures I LP Partnership Interest (26.2%) 26.2 44 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands
Joint Ventures
Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Limited Equity Shares (50%) 50 708/718, 7th Floor, A Wing, Sagar Tech Plaza, Saki Naka, Andheri East,
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400072, India
Qualivax Pte. Limited Ordinary (50%) 50 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898, Singapore
Qura Therapeutics, LLC Units (39.2%) 39.2 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE
19808, United States
Other significant holdings
Axon Therapies, Inc Common (5%); Series A 20 315 west 36th street, New York 10018, Delaware, USA
Preference (15%)
Global Farm S.A. A Shares (0%) 16.7 Cazadores de Coquimbo 2841 piso 3, Munro, Argentina
B Shares (0%)
C Shares (100%)
D Shares (0%)
E Shares (0%)
F Shares (0%)
Longwood Fund II, LP Partnership Interest (20%) 20 The Prudential Tower, Suite 1555, 800 Boylston Street, Boston,
MA 02199
Sanderling Ventures VII, L.P. A63 Partnership Interest (25.3%) 25.3 400 S. El Camino Real, Suite 1200, San Mateo, CA 94402
SR One Capital Fund I-B, LP Partnership Interest (44%) 44 Corporation service company, 251 Little Falls Drive, City of Wilmington,
County of New Castle, Delaware 19808
The following UK subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within section 479A of the Companies Act 2006
for the period ended 31 December 2021. Unless otherwise stated, the undertakings listed below are owned, either directly or
indirectly, by GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Effective % Company
Name Security Ownership Registered address Number
UK registered subsidiaries exempted from audit
Burroughs Wellcome International Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00543757
Domantis Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 03907643
Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (ii) Ordinary; 100 Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, United Kingdom SC005534
Preference
Eskaylab Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00099025
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00480080
Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited Ordinary; 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 04299472
Ordinary B;
Ordinary C
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) (No.1) Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00753340
Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sri Lanka Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 9400298
Holdings Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11480952
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11721880
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.5) Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 11959399
GlaxoSmithKline International Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 02298366
GSK Consumer Healthcare Capital UK PLC Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 13481162
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (No.4) Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 13401336
GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings (No.8) Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 13434151
GSK New Zealand Holding Company Limited Ordinary 68 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 12342879
Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd Ordinary 100 Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, United Kingdom SC190635
PHIVCO UK II Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 06944229
PHIVCO UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 06944223
Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited (iv) Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00052207
SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 02860752
SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited Non-cumulative 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 03296131
Non-redeemable;
OrdinaryOther statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective % Company
Name Security Ownership Registered address Number
UK registered subsidiaries exempted from audit continued
SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00302065
SmithKline Beecham Legacy H Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00210281
SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00494385
Services Limited
SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00503868
SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 02552828
Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00831160
Tesaro UK Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 07890847
The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ordinary 100 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 00194814
ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England 07027385
In accordance with section 479C of the Companies Act 2006, the Company will guarantee debts and liabilities of the above UK subsidiary undertakings. As at 31 December 2021 the
total sum of these debts and liabilities is £876 million (2020 – £168 million)
Key
(i) Directly owned by GlaxoSmithKline plc.
(ii) D ormant entity.
(iii) T ax resident in the UK.
(iv) Entity expected to be disposed of or removed.
(v) Incorporated in the Netherlands
(vi) Consolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.
(vii) Principal business address in Puerto Rico.
(viii) Exempt from the provisions of Regulations 4-6 of the Partnership (Accounts) Regulation 2008, in accordance with the exemptions noted in Regulation 7 of that Regulation.
310 GSK Annual Report 2021GSK Annual Report 2021 311
Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) R eceipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Ordinary Share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how
it has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.Index
Page Page
2021 Remuneration policy summary 143 Investor relations 295
Accounting principles and policies 172 Key performance indicators 12
Acquisitions and disposals 221 Legal proceedings 248
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Major restructuring costs 186
cash flows 225 Modern employer 37
Affordability and availability 36 Movements in equity 217
Annual General Meeting 2022 291 Net debt 203
Approach to tax 60 New accounting requirements 179
Assets held for sale 201 Nominations Committee Report 107
Associates and joint ventures 188 Non-controlling interests 219
Audit & Risk Committee Report 111 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 57
Being a responsible business 38 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 139
Business model 01 Non-financial information statement 54
Cash and cash equivalents 201 Notes to the financial statements 172
Cash generation and conversion 73 Operating profit 184
CEO’s statement 05 Other intangible assets 196
Chairman’s statement 03 Other investments 199
Chairman’s Governance statement 89 Other non-current assets 200
Chairman’s Remuneration annual statement 120 Other non-current liabilities 216
Climate-related financial disclosure 49 Other operating income/(expense) 183
Commitments 216 Other provisions 214
Consolidated balance sheet 169 Our culture 11
Consolidated cash flow statement 171 Our external environment 13
Consolidated income statement 168 Our long-term priorities 10
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 170 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 205
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 168 Performance 29
Consumer Healthcare 41 Pharmaceuticals 17,29
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 274 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Contingent consideration liabilities 215 intellectual property 272
Contingent liabilities 216 Pipeline 269
Corporate governance 82 Post balance sheet events 251
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 104 Presentation of the financial statements 171
Critical accounting judgements and key sources Principal Group companies 247
of estimation uncertainty 177 Principal risks and uncertainties 275
Critical accounting policies 80 Property, plant and equipment 193
Data and engagement 39 Quarterly trend 258
Directors and senior management 141 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 226
Directors’ interests in shares 140 Registrar 294
Directors’ report 117 Related party transactions 221
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 154 Reliable supply 38
Dividends 192,290 Remuneration governance 138
Donations to political organisations and Remuneration report 125
political expenditure 298 Reporting framework 56
Earnings per share 192 Right of use assets 194
Employee costs 185 Risk management 46
Employee share schemes 245 Science and technology 35
Environment 39 Science Committee report 105
Ethics and values 38 Section 172 statement 116
Exchange rates 180 Share capital and control 288
Finance expense 187 Share capital and share premium account 217
Finance income 187 Shareholder information 288
Financial calendar 2022 291 Shareholder services and contacts 294
Financial instruments and related disclosures 228 Stakeholder engagement 44
Financial performance 7,61 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 49
Financial position and resources 74 Taxation 189
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Tax information for shareholders 291
under UK GAAP 252 The Board 83
Five year record 263 Trade and other payables 201
Glossary of terms 311 Trade and other receivables 200
Goodwill 195 Transformation & Separation Committee report 110
Group companies 299 Treasury policies 79
Group financial review 55 Trust 34
GSK Leadership Team 87 Turnover and segment information 180
Independent Auditor’s report 156 US law and regulation 295
Innovation 17 Vaccines 17,31
Inventories 200 Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property 273
Investments in associates and joint ventures 198 Viability statement 53
312 GSK Annual Report 2021Strategic
report
Governance
and
remuneration
Financial
statements
Investor
information
About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an English Brand names
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report
public limited company on 6 December 1999. We were are trade marks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK
or associated companies. All other trade marks are the
formed by a merger between Glaxo Wellcome plc and property of their respective owners.
SmithKline Beecham plc. GSK acquired these two Acknowledgements
Printing
English companies on 27 December 2000 as part Printed sustainably in the UK by Pureprint, a CarbonNeutral®
company with FSC® chain of custody and an ISO 14001
of the merger arrangements. certified environmental management system recycling over
99% of all dry waste.
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Paper
Printed on Innovation Premium, an FSC certified paper.
and the New York Stock Exchange. The pulps used are Totally Chlorine Free and the
manufacturing mill has ISO 14001 environmental
management certification. The mill’s energy is produced
from 100% biomass fuels sourced from local forestry
Read more at www.gsk.com and no fossil fuels are used. The carbon emissions have
been measured and offset using the World Land Trust’s
Carbon Balanced scheme.
Download PDFs:
A nnual Report 2021
F orm 20-F
Cautionary statement regarding A number of non-IFRS measures are used to report the The Group’s guidance assumes successful delivery of
forward-looking statements performance of our business. These measures are defined the Group’s integration and restructuring plans. It also
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US on pages 56 and 59 and a reconciliation of Adjusted assumes that the separation programme to deliver the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including results to Total results is set out on page 70. demerger of the Consumer Healthcare business is
t r f f g f bou uh e yivt ti rl s e u uw e
t
ha r r d ae et es ho r e b ed e fc ad vy - u G cel , o m o to nr or te o tr hk s on uo i a.n n t pr A t, a g ’ba ts nl
h
e sn s c eih td t nua ya a vt ra t l dee re fn e sm oomy n t f e o ne t o t n orn eht h t tct xe s se p ra . eG r nem F lw c ar o ia do ttr rd eaui ewt te p nt siae o, tt, r rt in nm fdo
i
y csi - an t ttl oh loy hf yo r e o e c tr fk ospm o oi e nu rn ha e tb g s it a c si tlo i si ta ac n on t ts a e
r
i tn it s m ce t aom eh lf ne e ot n rs t s T o G e p p cn ofh e elf a g ne r re f fx sar o oi on tgt r r ro Sf m me uo m es a ar inm e dn ni tl c cal ha
a
o n e et K si y .ro l c
a
i Nan n o a n
p
e ot ni hn
r
tni p oe hn t ol fiv r ih c n ti tii t gns boa
fo
v ertd ie ni
r
o ao ers e tnnc ct h m lu aiit ien som se dv tAnb ie
.
t utu nan pay ntt i oco ud s t n anho iv l ae a o i Rtr ss r ie e e i an s n s p o d . gi o nt Pu u r c tc a i do se s en htm s ote ot ui n t lfu dt u t t te bo u e ra e n d n t o a d bh fe pe e afew e sl cti iv ie co i sse p x tn .ier p or se o de n d id c sn b u . s t y tac Tu h t at hc ei o dl ec a Gn d e u gs is r tn uo igs oc iu df i nhu v p aae el ’l ns ly s n cd. . pa M eaGn i p t ia d ai sevt - ee R l gdinnr i& ri ve ia vt eD ,l h e ntc e nh h o o a ep Rs nv o ot &es at u e D bf ctno l e oo itr ne i noa vi nn skl e v tdf sm ae a e t ns c mav tt t ye m o e c l b nr o ue e e tp rn d r mt e ii nn en ct n o yt
current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’, 2021-2026 outlooks, 2031 sales ambition and
‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, Assumptions related to 2022 guidance 2021-2023 dividend expectations should be read together
‘believe’, ‘target’ and other words and terms of similar In outlining the guidance for 2022, the Group has made with the section “Basis of preparation, assumptions and
meaning in connection with any discussion of future certain assumptions about the healthcare sector, the cautionary statements” on pages 5-7 of our stock-
operating or financial performance. In particular, these different markets in which the Group operates and the exchange announcement relating to an update to investors
include statements relating to future actions, prospective delivery of revenues and financial benefits from its current dated 23 June 2021. All outlook and ambition statements
products or product approvals, future performance or portfolio, pipeline and restructuring programmes. The are given on a constant currency basis and use 2021
results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, Group also assumes that the demerger of our Consumer actual exchange rates as a base.
expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal Healthcare business will be delivered in mid-2022 and this
proceedings, dividend payments and financial results. guidance relates only to new GSK. Notice regarding limitations on
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory Director Liability under English Law
obligations (including under the Market Abuse The Group has made planning assumptions for 2022 that Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits
Regulations, the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure healthcare systems will approach normality as the year the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct progresses, and we expect sales of Specialty Medicines omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see page
Authority), the Group undertakes no obligation to update to grow approximately 10% at CER and sales of General 117), the Strategic report and the Remuneration report.
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of Medicines to show a slight decrease, primarily reflecting Under English law the Directors would be liable to the
new information, future events or otherwise. The reader increased genericisation of established Respiratory company, but not to any third party, if one or more of these
should, however, consult any additional disclosures that products. Vaccines sales are expected to grow at a low reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or
the Group may make in any documents which it teens percentage at CER for the year as a whole. However, knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a
publishes and/or files with the SEC. All readers, governments’ prioritisation of COVID-19 vaccination material fact, but would otherwise not be liable. Pages 82
wherever located, should take note of these disclosures. programmes and ongoing measures to contain the to 118, 154 to 155, and 275 to 310 inclusive comprise the
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any pandemic are expected to result in some continued Directors’ Report, pages 1 to 81 inclusive comprise the
particular expectation will be met and investors are disruption to adult immunisations, with the impact Strategic report and pages 119 to 152 inclusive comprise
cautioned not to place undue reliance on the weighted to the first half. For Shingrix, despite the potential the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn
forward-looking statements. for short-term pandemic disruption, we continue to expect up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon
F i fn ao h cr e tw ore ra snr d t t h- rl aio s tko ask r i ean ng bd es yuta ont nce dem r te t han eint s Gt ia e rr ose , u m psu ’a sb n cj ye o c o nt f t rt wo o h l a oics rs h pu r rm e el cp a itt seio e tn os , s o e rot xnr yp o as an t ln trg yo s nd ii nogo cn u od . b G mel me eu- iad d frni a og d n mi t ci n g e t her ao ex lw i s ss o ett ih n ti tnga lecn m mld ua edr r ne ek tc se ao t ts nhrd dea na f liun d ctn eugu nre ea so l e bgs aea ra gnle p e res h fi etib c mia nas e l e nd t E c limon ng itnl ais e tih c o t nc io so n m a w np dia t hn re y t s hl ta e rw is ce ta i orn e nd p s t o h pre rts o l vi sa ih db a eil li dlt i be bes y so suf u bt ch j hee c laD t w tir o .e tc ht eo rs in
estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number with Gilead announced on 1 February 2022. Website
of important factors, including those in this document,
could cause actual results to differ materially from those These planning assumptions as well as operating profit GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information
expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. guidance and dividend expectations assume no material on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make
interruptions to supply of the Group’s products, no material in this Annual Report to GSK’s website, none of the
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those mergers, acquisitions or disposals, no material litigation or information made available on the website constitutes
discussed under ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on investigation costs for the company (save for those that are part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be
pages 275 to 287 of this Annual Report and any impacts already recognised or for which provisions have been incorporated by reference herein.
of the COVID-19 pandemic. Any forward-looking made) and no change in the Group’s shareholdings in ViiV
statements made by or on behalf of the Group speak only Healthcare. The assumptions also assume no material
as of the date they are made and are based upon the changes in the healthcare environment or unexpected
knowledge and information available to the Directors on significant changes in pricing as a result of government or
the date of this Annual Report. competitor action. The 2022 guidance factors in all
divestments and product exits announced to date.Front cover
This image is taken from a short film
on GSK’s use of human genetics and
advanced technology to increase the
probability of successful new medicines.
Click gskadvancedtech.com to watch.
Search for us here
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792
www.gsk.com