Annual Report
2018GSK Annual Report 2018
Contents
Strategic report Corporate Governance Financial statements
GSK at a glance 01 Chairman’s Governance statement 66 Directors’ statement of
Chairman’s statement 02 Our Board 68 responsibilities 126
CEO’s statement 03 Our Corporate Executive Team 71 Independent Auditor’s report 128
Financial performance 04 Leadership and effectiveness 72 Financial statements 140
Our long-term priorities 07 Nominations Committee report 77 Notes to the financial statements 144
Key performance indicators 08 Accountability 79 Financial statements of
Industry trends 09 Audit & Risk Committee report 79 GlaxoSmithKline plc prepared
Stakeholder engagement 11 Relations with stakeholders 89 under UK GAAP 219
Our business model 12 Science Committee report 91
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals 13 Corporate Responsibility
Vaccines 18 Committee report 92 Quarterly trend 224
Consumer Healthcare 21 Five-year record 229
Remuneration report
Trust 24 Product development pipeline 235
Risk management 34 Chairman’s annual statement 96 Product, competition and
Group financial review 37 Annual report on remuneration 98 intellectual property 238
2017 Remuneration policy summary 120 Principal risks and uncertainties 241
Share capital and share price 251
Dividends 253
Financial calendar 253
Annual General Meeting 2019 254
Tax information for shareholders 254
Shareholder services and contacts 256
US law and regulation 258
Cautionary statement
Group companies 260
See the inside back cover of this document for the cautionary statement
Glossary of terms 271
regarding forward-looking statements.
Non-financial information statement
The following aligns to the non-financial reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
Description of the business model Human rights Policy, due diligence and outcomes
GSK at glance 01 Human rights 31 Summary of our principal risks 34
Our business model 12 Data and engagement 31 Principal risks and uncertainties 241
Social matters Third parties 31 Viability statement 44
Anti-corruption and bribery Audit & Risk Committee report 79
Global health 25
Our policies
Health security 26 Living our values and expectations 30
Affordability and availability 26 Reporting and investigating concerns 30 All of our public policies, codes and standards
Employees Anti-bribery and corruption 30 are available on gsk.com
Environmental matters
Employee engagement 28
Diversity 28 Carbon, water and waste 32
Wellbeing and development 29
Gender pay gap 28
Living our values and expectations 30
Board diversity 28
Non-IFRS measures
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business. Total reported results represent the Group's overall performance
under IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented
in accordance with IFRS. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures are defined on pages 40 to 42 and reconciliations to the nearest IFRS measures are
on pages 51 and 56.
We believe that Adjusted results, when considered together with Total results, provide investors, analysts and other stakeholders with helpful complementary
information to understand better the financial performance and position of the Group from period to period, and allow the Group's performance to be more
easily compared against the majority of its peer companies. These measures are also used by management for planning and reporting purposes. They may
not be directly comparable with similarly described measures used by other companies.01
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
GSK at a glance
We are a science-led global healthcare company.
Our purpose is to help people do more, feel better,
live longer.
We have three global businesses that discover, develop Our strategy is to bring differentiated, high-quality
and manufacture innovative pharmaceutical medicines, and needed healthcare products to as many people
vaccines and consumer healthcare products. Every day, as possible, with our three global businesses, scientific
millions of patients and consumers across the world use and technical know-how and talented people.
our products. In 2018, we delivered around 2.3 billion
We are a science-led healthcare company. In 2018,
packs of medicine, 770 million vaccine doses and
we invested £3.9 billion in R&D and announced a new
3.8 billion consumer healthcare products.
approach to our R&D focusing on science related to
In 2018, our turnover was £30.8 billion, up 2% at actual the immune system, human genetics and advanced
exchange rates (AER), 5% at constant exchange rates technologies.
(CER). The US is our largest single commercial market,
Our three long-term priorities of Innovation, Performance
representing 39% of revenue, followed by International
and Trust are designed to create long-term value for
at 35% and Europe at 26%.
patients, consumers and shareholders. Our values –
Our 95,490 employees across the world are driven patient focus, transparency, respect and integrity –
by our purpose and our goal to become one of the and our expectations – courage, accountability,
world’s most innovative, best-performing and trusted development and teamwork – define our culture.
healthcare companies.
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer Healthcare
Our Pharmaceuticals business We are the leading Vaccines company Our Consumer Healthcare business
has a broad portfolio of innovative in the world, delivering over 2 million develops and markets a portfolio
and established medicines, with vaccine doses every day to people of globally recognised consumer-
leadership positions in respiratory living in 158 countries. Our portfolio preferred and expert-recommended
and HIV. We are strengthening and pipeline help protect individuals brands in the oral health, pain relief,
our pipeline through a focus on throughout their lives. We have respiratory, skin health, nutrition and
immunology, human genetics and recently introduced breakthrough digestive health categories. These
advanced technologies to help vaccines Shingrix for shingles and category-leading brands include
us identify the most promising Bexsero, the first vaccine for Sensodyne, parodontax, Poligrip,
new medicines. meningitis B. Voltaren, Panadol, Otrivin and Theraflu.
Read more on page 13 Read more on page 18 Read more on page 21
Turnover £m Turnover £m Turnover £m
Respiratory 6,928 Meningitis 881 Wellness 3,940
HIV 4,722 Shingles 784 Oral health 2,496
Immuno-inflammation 472 Influenza 523 Nutrition 643
Established Pharmaceuticals 5,147 Established Vaccines 3,706 Skin health 579
Total 17,269 Total 5,894 Total 7,65802
GSK Annual Report 2018
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that 2018 was a year of good financial performance for
GSK with improvements in sales, earnings and, particularly, cash flow generation.
The delivery against operating targets was excellent, with notably successful
launches of new products. It was also a year in which the strategic shape
of GSK in the coming years has been redefined.
Research & development Capital allocation
Success in R&D will always be fundamental to shareholder returns. Improving GSK’s pipeline of new medicines remains the first priority
A renewed focus on R&D was set out by Emma Walmsley when she for investment. We also continue to invest behind key products,
became CEO in 2017, and a new plan to improve the pipeline of new including increasing the manufacturing capacity of Shingrix,
medicines has now been launched by Dr Hal Barron, our new Chief GSK’s very successful new vaccine to help prevent shingles.
Scientific Officer.
Dividend payments form part of the Group’s capital allocation
Progress is most evident in oncology, with some promising assets framework and the Board recognises the importance of dividends
in our own laboratories. We have also acquired Tesaro, an oncology to shareholders. Total dividends of 80p per share were paid in 2018
focused biotechnology company based in Boston, which has and for the first time in several years the cash flow has covered the
a marketed oncology product and several pipeline assets with dividend payments. The same level of dividend is expected in 2019.
development potential. Even more recently, we have proposed
Cash generation should remain a key focus given the marked
an alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany to develop
increase in net debt, most of which arose from taking full control
a promising new oncology medicine.
of the Consumer Healthcare business.
Through the Board Science Committee, the Directors continue
Financial reporting
to engage closely with the executives on the actions being taken
I have noted before that commercial structures and reporting
to improve scientific innovation. A focus on world-class innovation
requirements sometimes lead to more complexity in reporting
is essential to drive long-term value for investors.
than we would like. We continue to evolve our financial reporting
Future direction and over the course of 2018 we made further changes to give
In addition to increasing investment in Pharmaceuticals, we also greater prominence to Total results, which represent the Group’s
took steps to strengthen the Consumer Healthcare business in 2018. overall performance experienced by shareholders. The company
The first step was the buyout of the put option held by Novartis in is committed to continuous improvement in this area in line with
respect of their minority stake in GSK Consumer Healthcare, which evolving regulatory requirements and best practice.
was completed in June. The second step was the announcement
Succession
in December to create a new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
In 2018, we announced that Simon Dingemans would step down
with Pfizer.
as Chief Financial Officer at this coming AGM after more than eight
This latter transaction offers the opportunity to create substantial years with GSK. I would like to thank him for his service to GSK.
value for shareholders through a new world-leading Consumer Succeeding Simon, is Iain Mackay, formerly Group Finance Director
Healthcare business and has a significant bearing on the future for HSBC, who we welcomed to the Board in January 2019.
shape of the Group. This transaction would transform the scale
This will be my last Annual Report as Chairman, following my
of GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business and therefore the Board
decision at the start of the year to step down from the Board.
has stated that GSK intends to separate the Joint Venture within
GSK is one of the world’s great businesses and it has been
three years of the completion of the transaction. This sets out a
an enormous privilege to serve as its Chairman.
path for GSK to create two focused new companies, with separate
listings and appropriate capital structures. Each business will be Under Emma’s leadership, GSK has made very good progress.
well positioned to deliver attractive returns to shareholders and With the announcement of the intended separation in a few years’
benefits to patients and consumers. time, I believe this is the right moment to step down and allow
a new Chair to oversee this process through to its conclusion.
The Board fully supports the proposed transaction with Pfizer and
Our Senior Independent Director, Vindi Banga, is leading the
is seeking approval from shareholders at a General Meeting which
search to appoint my successor.
will be held immediately after this coming Annual General Meeting.
A separate Circular recommending the transaction will be made I would like to thank all of GSK’s employees and partners for
available to shareholders prior to the Annual General Meeting. their hard work throughout 2018, and our shareholders and
customers for their continued support.
Philip Hampton
Chairman03
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
CEO’s statement
In 2018, GSK made significant progress against our long-term priorities of
Innovation, Performance and Trust, underpinned by a continuing shift in culture.
We delivered improved operating performance, started to strengthen Expected proceeds from the disposal will be used to reduce
our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, particularly in oncology, and undertook debt and increase our investment flexibility.
several significant transactions to support our strategy and reshape
In December, we also announced the formation of a Consumer
the Group’s portfolio. Our focus for 2019 will be sustained delivery of
Healthcare JV with Pfizer. When completed, this would create
this progress and, in particular, continued development of the pipeline.
a new global leader in Consumer Healthcare. The proposed
2018 performance transaction also supports our key priority to strengthen the
Group sales were £30.8 billion, up 2% at actual exchange rates Pharmaceuticals business by increasing cash flows. And with
(AER) and up 5% at constant exchange rates (CER). Sales growth our intention to separate we have set a clear direction for the
was driven by new products. The standout continues to be Shingrix, Group with the ultimate aim of creating two exceptional UK-based,
our vaccine for shingles, which had sales of £784 million – a global companies. One, a Pharmaceuticals/Vaccines company,
remarkable launch year for the vaccine. Our HIV medicines also with an R&D approach focused on science related to the immune
continued to grow with sales of £4.4 billion for our dolutegravir- system, human genetics and advanced technologies. The other,
based products. And in respiratory we continued to build our new a new world-leading Consumer Healthcare company.
portfolio with sales of £2.6 billion, including good performances Building Trust
from Trelegy Ellipta – our new three-in-one medicine for chronic
Trust is the third long-term priority I set out alongside Innovation
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) – and Nucala, our biologic
and Performance and is vitally important to me and all employees
medicine for severe asthma.
at GSK. In 2018, we set out new commitments to build Trust with
Total Group operating margin was 17.8%, up 4.3 percentage points a strong focus on three principal areas: using our science and
AER and 5.0 percentage points CER. Adjusted Group operating technology to address health needs, making our products more
margin was 28.4%, flat AER and up 0.5 percentage points CER. affordable and available, and being a modern employer.
Total earnings per share more than doubled to 73.7p AER and
We are committed to providing access to our medicines and
CER, and Adjusted earnings per share were up 7% AER, 12%
vaccines across the world, and I was pleased that we once again
CER at 119.4p.
topped the Access to Medicines Index. I was also delighted to see
We remain focused on controlling costs and cash generation the approval of tafenoquine for P. vivax malaria and the encouraging
and I was very pleased that free cash flow was significantly data we published on our potential vaccine for tuberculosis (TB),
improved at £5.7 billion, up 63% in actual terms compared with which remains the leading cause of death through infectious
2017. We delivered on our expectation of paying an 80p per share disease worldwide.
dividend in 2018 and expect to pay 80p per share in 2019.
We also continue to drive a necessary shift in culture towards
Strengthening the pipeline one that is focused on performance and based on living our values
I have consistently said our key priority is to strengthen the (patient focus, transparency, respect and integrity) and expectations
Pharmaceuticals pipeline to develop the next generation of medicines (courage, accountability, development and teamwork). Employee
for patients, and 2018 demonstrated good progress against this engagement is key to the progress we are making here, and our
objective, particularly in oncology. By advancing key internal assets people are encouraged to share their views and ideas on key topics
as well as targeted business development, we will have 161 oncology through regular conversations hosted by our leaders, including
assets in clinical development – double the number we had at the myself and my executive team.
start of 2018. Our acquisition of Tesaro added a major new product 2019 will be an important year for GSK as we continue to strengthen
to our portfolio, Zejula, which is approved for use in ovarian cancer our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, execute on our announced transactions,
and we see strong development prospects for this product and the and sustain improved operating performance, particularly as we
other assets acquired in this transaction. We are pleased that we navigate the introduction of generic Advair in the US, for which
will be adding to our portfolio with our proposed global alliance we have anticipated and prepared. We will remain vigilant in what
with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany to co-develop and is a dynamic operating environment and continue to invest in our
co-commercialise a novel immunotherapy asset. long-term priorities, so that we can bring benefits to the patients
In 2019, we expect major data readouts and other significant and consumers that we serve.
newsflow on several new medicines. We expect pivotal data Finally, I want to sincerely thank all of our customers, suppliers,
from three oncology assets which all have potential to be launched investors and employees for their support and hard work in 2018
in the next two years. We also expect an approval decision from the and I look forward to our continued partnership for an exciting
US Food & Drug Administration (FDA) for dolutegravir + lamivudine year ahead.
and FDA filings for two other new medicines in HIV, a phase III start
for a new treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, and results of a pivotal
respiratory study to support filing of Trelegy Ellipta for use in asthma.
Accelerating our strategy and reshaping our business
In line with our capital allocation priorities, through 2018 we Emma Walmsley
undertook a series of transactions to accelerate our strategy Chief Executive Officer
and reshape our business. In June, we acquired full ownership
of our Consumer Healthcare business by buying out Novartis’
minority stake, and in December we reached agreement with
1 Includes M7824, the subject of the proposed alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt,
Unilever to divest Horlicks and other consumer nutrition products. Germany, expected to close in Q1 2019.04
GSK Annual Report 2018
Financial performance
Total results
2018 2017 Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 30,821 100 30,186 100 2 5
Cost of sales (10,241) (33.2) (10,342) (34.3) (1) –
Gross profit 20,580 66.8 19,844 65.7 4 7
Selling, general and administration (9,915) (32.2) (9,672) (32.0) 3 5
Research and development (3,893) (12.6) (4,476) (14.8) (13) (12)
Royalty income 299 1.0 356 1.1 (16) (17)
Other operating income/(expense) (1,588) (5.2) (1,965) (6.5)
Operating profit 5,483 17.8 4,087 13.5 34 43
Net finance costs (717) (669)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 3 94
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 13
Profit before taxation 4,800 3,525 36 46
Taxation (754) (1,356)
Tax rate 15.7% 38.5%
Profit after taxation 4,046 2,169 87 100
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 637
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 1,532
Earnings per share 73.7p 31.4p >100 >100
How we performed
Cost of sales Other operating income/(expense)
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 33.2%, down Other operating expense primarily reflected accounting charges
1.0 percentage points AER and 1.4 percentage points CER. arising from the remeasurements of the contingent consideration
This primarily reflected a favourable comparison with the write- liability related to the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV
downs of assets in 2017 related to the decision to withdraw Healthcare joint venture and the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
Tanzeum, together with a more favourable product mix in put option previously held by Novartis, partly offset by the profit
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare. on a number of asset disposals.
Selling, general and administration Operating profit
SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 32.2%, up Total operating profit was £5,483 million in 2018 compared with
0.1 percentage points at both AER and CER. The increase £4,087 million in 2017. The increase primarily reflected a favourable
primarily reflected higher restructuring costs and investment comparison with charges in 2017 arising from the impact of US
in promotional product support, particularly for new launches tax reform on the valuations of the Consumer Healthcare and HIV
in Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines. businesses and reduced asset impairments and restructuring costs
in cost of sales and R&D.
Research and development
R&D expenditure was £3,893 million. (12.6% of turnover), Tax
13% AER, 12% CER lower than in 2017. The reduction reflected The charge of £754 million represented an effective tax rate on
lower restructuring costs primarily due to the comparison with Total results of 15.7% (2017 – 38.5%) and reflected the different
the provision for obligations in 2017 as a result of the decision tax effects of the various Adjusting items. The reduction in the
to withdraw Tanzeum. In addition, there were lower intangible effective tax rate was driven primarily by a favourable comparison
asset impairments and a favourable comparison with the impact with the impact of US tax reform, which resulted in a number of
of the Priority Review Voucher purchased and utilised in 2017. charges in 2017.
Non-controlling interests
The allocation of earnings to non-controlling interests amounted
to £423 million (2017 – £637 million). The reduction was primarily
due to the lower allocation of Consumer Healthcare profits following
the buyout of Novartis’ interest.
Earnings per share
Total earnings per share was 73.7p, compared with 31.4p in 2017.05
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Total and Adjusted results
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall performance. GSK has undertaken a number of Major restructuring programmes
in recent years in response to significant changes in the Group’s
GSK uses a number of Adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the
trading environment or overall strategy, or following material
performance of its business. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS
acquisitions, including the Novartis transaction in 2015. Costs,
measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute
both cash and non-cash, of these programmes are provided
for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
for as individual elements are approved and meet the accounting
See page 40 for a fuller definition.
recognition criteria. As a result, charges may be incurred over
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered together with a number of years following the initiation of a Major restructuring
Total results, provide investors, analysts and other stakeholders with programme.
helpful complementary information to understand better the financial
GSK is committed to continuously improving its financial reporting,
performance and position of the Group from period to period, and
in line with evolving regulatory requirements and best practice and
allow the Group’s performance to be more easily compared against
has made a number of changes in recent years. In line with this
the majority of its peer companies. These measures are also used
practice, GSK expects in 2019 to continue to review its reporting
by management for planning and reporting purposes. They may not
framework (including, where relevant, the use of alternative
be directly comparable with similarly described measures used by
performance measures).
other companies.
GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any
single financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports,
including the financial statements and notes, in their entirety.
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and Adjusted
Adjusting items results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,821 30,821
Cost of sales (10,241) 536 69 443 15 – (9,178)
Gross profit 20,580 536 69 443 15 – 21,643
Selling, general and administration (9,915) 2 315 98 38 (9,462)
Research and development (3,893) 44 45 49 20 (3,735)
Royalty income 299 299
Other operating income/(expense) (1,588) 2 1,864 (278) –
Operating profit 5,483 580 116 809 1,977 (220) 8,745
Net finance costs (717) 4 (3) 18 (698)
Profit on disposal of associates 3 (3) –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 31
Profit before taxation 4,800 580 116 813 1,974 (205) 8,078
Taxation (754) (109) (19) (170) (239) (244) (1,535)
Tax rate 15.7% 19.0%
Profit after taxation 4,046 471 97 643 1,735 (449) 6,543
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 251 674
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 471 97 643 1,484 (449) 5,869
Earnings per share 73.7p 9.6p 2.0p 13.1p 30.2p (9.2)p 119.4p
Adjusting items
Intangible asset amortisation and impairment Transaction-related
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets excludes computer Transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related
software and goodwill. to significant acquisitions.
Major restructuring Divestments, significant legal and other items
Major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible Proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products and
assets and computer software (under specific Board-approved businesses; significant legal charges (net of insurance recoveries)
programmes that are structural, of a significant scale and where and expenses on the settlement of litigation and government
the costs of individual or related projects exceed £25 million), investigations; other operating income other than royalty income,
including integration costs following material acquisitions. and other items.06
GSK Annual Report 2018
Financial performance continued
Adjusted results
2018 2017 Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 30,821 100 30,186 100 2 5
Cost of sales (9,178) (29.8) (8,771) (29.1) 5 6
Gross profit 21,643 70.2 21,415 70.9 1 4
Selling, general and administration (9,462) (30.7) (9,341) (30.9) 1 4
Research and development (3,735) (12.1) (3,862) (12.8) (3) (2)
Royalty income 299 1.0 356 1.2 (16) (17)
Operating profit 8,745 28.4 8,568 28.4 2 6
Net finance costs (698) (657)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 13
Profit before taxation 8,078 7,924 2 6
Taxation (1,535) (1,667)
Tax rate 19.0% 21.0%
Profit after taxation 6,543 6,257 5 9
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 674 793
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,869 5,464
Earnings per share 119.4p 111.8p 7 12
How we performed
Cost of sales Tax
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.8%, Tax on Adjusted profit was £1,535 million representing an effective
up 0.7 percentage points at AER, 0.4 percentage points Adjusted tax rate of 19.0% (2017 – 21.0%). The reduction in the
at CER. The increase primarily reflected continued adverse effective rate was primarily driven by the reduction in the US federal
pricing pressure in Pharmaceuticals and Established Vaccines tax rate.
as well as increased input costs.
Non-controlling interests
Selling, general and administration The allocation of Adjusted earnings to non-controlling interests
SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 30.7%, down amounted to £674 million (2017 – £793 million). The reduction
0.2 percentage points at AER, 0.3 percentage points at CER. was primarily due to the lower allocation of Consumer Healthcare
This decrease reflected the impact of sales growth partly offset profits following the buyout of Novartis’ interest.
by a cost increase of 1% AER, 4% CER, primarily resulting from
Earnings per share
increased investment in promotional product support, particularly
Adjusted EPS of 119.4p was up 7% AER, 12% CER, compared
for new launches in Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines.
with a 6% CER increase in Adjusted operating profit, primarily
Research and development as a result of a reduced non-controlling interest allocation of
R&D expenditure was £3,735 million (12.1% of turnover), down 3% Consumer Healthcare profits and a lower Adjusted tax rate.
AER, 2% CER. This primarily reflected the favourable comparison
with the impact of the Priority Review Voucher purchased and
utilised in 2017 and the benefit of the prioritisation initiatives
started in the second half of 2018.
Operating profit
Adjusted operating profit was £8,745 million, up 2% AER,
6% CER on a turnover increase of 5%. The Adjusted operating
margin of 28.4% was flat at AER but up 0.5 percentage points
at CER. This reflected the benefit from sales growth at CER in
all three businesses, a more favourable mix, primarily in Vaccines
and Consumer Healthcare, and reduced R&D expenditure.07
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our long-term priorities
We deliver our long-term priorities through each of our three This page sets out our 2018 objectives, highlights progress
businesses. They are designed to create long-term value for patients, in 2018 and our key objectives for 2019, with more detail provided
consumers and shareholders, and are underpinned by our ambition in the relevant business sections.
to build a culture with a greater performance focus, aligned to our
values and expectations.
Our long-term priorities apply to our three businesses
Innovation Performance Trust
We invest in scientific and technical We deliver growth based performance We are a responsible company and
excellence to develop and launch by investing effectively in our commit to use our science and
a pipeline of new products that meet business, developing our people technology to address health needs,
the needs of patients, payers and and executing competitively. make our products affordable and
consumers. available and to be a modern employer.
2018 objectives 2018 objectives 2018 objectives
– Excellent execution of key launches: – Grow sales in priority therapy areas, – Focus on supply service levels
Trelegy Ellipta, Juluca, and Shingrix categories and markets – Define new global health approach
– Strengthen Pharmaceutical pipeline – Increase operating margins and deliver – Competitive employee engagement
through greater focus, improved medicines improved cash flow
development and business development – Strengthen top talent profile in key roles
2018 progress 2018 progress 2018 progress
– Delivered industry-leading launches of – Group sales £30.8 billion, up 2% AER, – Established new set of priorities and public
Shingrix and Trelegy Ellipta, with strong 5% CER, with growth in new respiratory commitments to build trust
start to sales of Juluca product sales and HIV – Continued to simplify supply chain and
– New R&D approach to focus on science – Total Group operating margin 17.8%, improve supply performance
of the immune system, human genetics up 4.3 percentage points AER, up – Received approval for tafenoquine, the first
and advanced technologies 5.0 percentage points CER. Adjusted new treatment for P. vivax malaria in 60 years
– Strengthened pipeline through strategic Group operating margin 28.4%, flat AER, – Candidate TB vaccine showed positive
business development with 23andMe and up 0.5 percentage points CER results in phase IIb trial
Tesaro and terminated or divested around – Net cash flow from operations £8.4 billion, – Competitive employee engagement through
80 programmes to focus investment on up from £6.9 billion. Free cash flow focus on modern employer
most promising assets £5.7 billion, up from £3.5 billion
– All employees globally to have access
– Significant progress in reshaping – Announced transaction to create a to a preventive healthcare package
Pharmaceuticals R&D portfolio, with 331 world-leading Consumer Healthcare Joint
of 46 new medicines targeting modulation Venture with Pfizer and bought out Novartis’
of the immune system stake in GSK Consumer Healthcare
– Key leadership appointments in place
with 69% of top 125 leaders new in role
2019 objectives 2019 objectives 2019 objectives
– Deliver continued strong sales of Trelegy – Continue to drive sales growth and – Focus on supply service levels, execute
Ellipta, Nucala, HIV two-drug regimen operational performance portfolio and network simplification
and Shingrix – Successful integration of Tesaro – Deliver progress on Trust commitments
– Continue to strengthen pipeline through – Deliver restructuring benefits and plan – Progress global health research in TB
execution of new R&D approach, for the integration of Pfizer’s consumer and HIV
accelerating priority assets and optimising healthcare business – Deliver modern employer programmes
recent strategic business development – Accelerate capability build in priority areas to empower employees to be themselves,
transactions including digital data and analytics feel good and keep growing at GSK
Culture
We are committed to building a new culture at GSK to accelerate delivery of our long-term priorities. In 2018, our focus was to establish a new set of
expectations – courage, accountability, development and teamwork – alongside our values – patient focus, transparency, respect and integrity – and
introduce a new approach to performance and reward. In 2019, we aim to continue to embed organisational understanding of how our values and
expectations will support a change in culture, leading to improved culture scores, and further embed our new performance system.
Principal risks
Our Principal risks are patient safety: product quality; financial controls and reporting; anti-bribery and corruption; commercial practices; privacy;
research practices; third party oversight; environment, health and safety, and sustainability; information security; and supply continuity. Our risk
management framework is designed to support our long-term priorities. More detailed information can be found on pages 34 to 36 and 241 to 250.
1 Includes M7824, the subject of the proposed alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, expected to close in Q1 2019.08
GSK Annual Report 2018
Key performance indicators
Our 10 operating key performance indicators (KPIs) track progress On this page we provide performance data for the operating KPIs
against our long-term priorities. They measure how we are performing we are reporting externally. Due to commercial sensitivities we are
at an overall Group level and across our three businesses. They are not planning to publish data for all operating KPIs.
reviewed regularly by our Corporate Executive Team and the Board,
We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the
and employees are updated on progress every quarter. In 2018, we
performance of our business, as described on pages 40 to 42,
launched a new performance system to align employees’ bonuses
including Adjusted results, free cash flow and CER growth rates.
to a relevant subset of our ten KPIs. The remuneration policy used
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as
to reward the performance of our executives includes measures
a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance
linked to our KPIs (see pages 97, 101 and 103).
with IFRS.
Innovation
2018 growth
2018 2017 2016
£bn £% CER% £bn £bn
Innovation sales R
Sales of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines products launched in the last five years 5.7 43 46 4.0a 2.6a
For internal purposes we also measure pipeline value and progress.
Performance
2018 growth
2018 2017 2016
£bn £% CER% £bn £bn
Group turnover R 30.8 2 5 30.2 27.9
Operating profit and margin R
Total operating profit 5.5 34 43 4.1 2.6
Adjusted operating profit 8.7 2 6 8.6 7.7
Total margin 17.8% 13.5% 9.3%
Adjusted margin 28.4% 28.4% 27.5%
Free cash flow R 5.7 63 3.5b 3.3b
For internal purposes we also measure market share, and top talent in key roles.
Trust
2018 2017 2016
Employee engagement
Employee engagement scores from our global employee survey 78% 79%
For internal purposes we also measure supply service levels and corporate reputation.
R Linked to Executive LTI awards and bonus, see pages 97, 101 and 103.
a Comparative information reflects sales of those products that meet the definition for 2018.
b Revised to include proceeds from the sale of intangible assets.09
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Industry trends
The healthcare industry is changing rapidly and has strong growth
potential. Our strategy and long-term priorities, underpinned by
our culture, are designed to put us in the best position to be able
to respond to the opportunities and challenges that this presents.
Global economic growth remained steady in 2018, with a projected Pricing and access
annual growth rate of 3.7%1. This was despite concerns over The pricing of healthcare products continues to attract significant
international trade, the weaker economic performance in some attention from governments and the public, with calls for better
countries, notably Europe and Asia, and geopolitical friction. transparency on how prices are set and a greater emphasis on health
In Europe, a lack of clarity about the nature of the UK’s future outcome-based pricing. Specialty medicines continue to receive
relationship with the EU caused some political and economic particular attention; their pricing reflects the therapeutic benefits
uncertainty (see page 36). and small number of patients covered by targeted treatments.
The global healthcare market continues to grow, despite signs of Government and payer budgets remain subject to increasing reviews
economic slowdown in some countries. Worldwide pharmaceutical as demand for healthcare grows, due to demographic change, the
sales totalled £731 billion2 from September 2017–2018, up 5%. push for universal health coverage and advances in preventive care
North America remains the largest pharmaceutical market with and treatment. Despite this, innovative medicines that are clearly
a 47% share of global sales, with Europe representing 16%3. differentiated in areas of unmet medical need will continue to
China is the second largest individual country for pharmaceutical attract strong coverage and funding in developed markets.
sales, representing 8% of global sales3. Global vaccine sales
In the US, there is variability in how drugs are funded and reimbursed
rose to approximately £20.6 billion in 2018, up 7.3% from 20174.
across insurance programmes. The current administration is
Global consumer healthcare sales are estimated to be
undergoing a comprehensive review of drug pricing. During 2018,
approximately £135 billion4.
it published the drug pricing Blue Print in an effort to lower prices of
pharmaceutical medicines for patients across the US. The Blue Print
Global trends: opportunities and challenges
focuses on improved competition, better government negotiation,
incentives for lower list prices and lowering out-of-pocket costs for
Positive demographics
patients. The administration aims to achieve this through a number
Demographic change is driving demand for both preventive and
of mechanisms, such as limiting rebates, introducing international
therapeutic healthcare products. People are living longer, with
reference pricing to compare domestic drug prices with other
the number of over 65-year-olds due to double between 2017
countries, value-based pricing pilots and reform of Medicare.
and 2050, and the global population is expanding, with the
worldwide headcount due to grow by more than 1 billion between In Europe and emerging markets, international reference pricing
2015 and 2030, to 8.5 billion. Increasing affluence, changing continues to gain traction, with over 70 markets now involved
diets and lifestyles and longer lifespans are all contributing to globally, although many countries continue to negotiate confidential
rising demand for healthcare, especially in areas such as cancer contracts with manufacturers. Increasingly, countries are also
and respiratory disease. cooperating on pricing, procurement and health technology
assessments (HTAs), which assess the clinical and cost-
Advances in science and technology
effectiveness and broader impacts of healthcare treatments.
Rapid advances in science and technology are transforming A new HTA regulation has been proposed in Europe that would
healthcare and increasing the probability of success in R&D. centralise the clinical assessments of new medicines and medical
Better understanding of human biology and genetics is enabling devices. This is now going through the legislative process.
scientists to identify and develop novel, targeted treatments and
In China, the authorities accelerated progress towards bringing
vaccines. Advances in digital technology, data and analytics
innovative treatments to market. This included increasing the
meanwhile allow researchers to explore and interpret a greater
pace and frequency of reimbursement coverage, especially
volume of data much faster than before. The insights gained are
for oncology drugs.
accelerating and improving the development of preventive and
therapeutic medicines and vaccines, and enabling manufacturers In Japan, the government continues to seek to expedite and
and purchasers of healthcare products to better measure their expand drug development. However, in 2018 a significant reduction
effectiveness. Technology is also now central to the way people in the price maintenance premium, which exempts certain innovative
discover, assess and buy healthcare products, with 2018 US medicines from annual price reductions, eroded price stability
research suggesting that 75% of consumers surveyed consider and plans to introduce a new HTA system have created further
that technology plays an important part in managing their uncertainty.
own health.
1 IMF World Economic Outlook Update, January 2019.
2 The volatility of the 2018 sterling exchange rate, and revised data collection methods at research
provider IQVIA, mean that this year’s global figure is not entirely comparable with 2017 (£738 billion).
3 IQVIA data.
4 Internal data.10
GSK Annual Report 2018
Industry trends continued
Regulatory environment Our strategic response
Healthcare is a highly regulated industry, reflecting public
expectations that products comply to stringent levels of quality, Our strategy – to bring differentiated, high-quality and needed
safety and efficacy. Governments are increasingly extending the healthcare products to as many people as possible, with our three
regulatory remit to support accelerated development and the global businesses, scientific and technical know-how and talented
introduction of new medicines with, for example, China, Japan and people – is designed to respond to these trends. Our long-term
the US recently introducing regulatory approaches to encourage priorities, underpinned by our culture, will help us deliver our strategy:
pharmaceutical innovation. Meanwhile, work on cross-border Innovation: we invest in scientific and technical excellence to
harmonisation of pharmaceutical regulation is increasing through develop and launch a pipeline of new products that meet the needs
supra-national bodies such as the International Conference of of patients, payers and consumers.
Drug Regulatory Authorities and the International Council for
Performance: we deliver growth based performance by investing
Harmonisation. In this context, the healthcare industry supports
effectively in our business, developing our people and executing
close cooperation on medicine regulation systems and processes
competitively.
between the UK and EU after Brexit.
Trust: we are a responsible company and commit to use our science
Competition
and technology to address health needs, make our products
The healthcare sector remains intensely competitive, with companies
affordable and available and be a modern employer.
increasingly pursuing acquisitions and collaborations to strengthen
their pipelines and portfolios. In 2018, notable M&A activity We are making important progress on these long-term priorities
included Takeda’s $59 billion acquisition of Shire Pharmaceuticals. (see page 7), which is enabling us to respond to the dynamic
This momentum continued in early 2019, with Bristol-Myers Squibb environment in which we operate. To harness advances in science
announcing its intention to buy Celgene for $74 billion. and technology, we are forming partnerships to bring ground-
breaking products to patients faster. We aim to manage pricing
Intellectual property (IP) protection is important to continue to
pressure by researching and developing differentiated medicines
incentivise innovation. This helps research-based healthcare
that will attract the greatest coverage and funding, and by pricing
companies ensure a reasonable return on their investments and
our medicines according to the value and outcomes they bring to
allows them to continue to conduct research, and develop new and
patients, providers and payers. We are committed to building trust
innovative medicines. Once IP protection expires, or if challenges
by addressing societal expectations and by operating responsibly
to a patent are upheld, generic competitors can rapidly capture
and transparently.
a large share of the market.
Vaccines and other biologics do not face such exposure to generic
competition through these ‘patent cliffs’. They are complex and
more dependent on technical manufacturing processes.
In consumer healthcare, the over-the-counter (OTC) sector has seen
the greatest consolidation while, in fast moving consumer goods
(FMCG), lower barriers to entry and fewer regulatory hurdles
have seen the rise of niche and e-commerce based companies
focusing successfully on fast-adapting consumer trends.
Societal expectations
Public trust in all large institutions – including media, governments,
NGOs and businesses – remains low, by historical standards,
particularly in developed markets, making it an important issue for
businesses as they face growing public scrutiny. Society increasingly
expects companies to earn their trust by demonstrating integrity,
fairness and transparency, and by making a positive contribution
to the wider community. The pharmaceutical sector still suffers from
a trust deficit as a result of past challenges in relation to sales and
marketing practices and ethics and compliance issues.
Concern is also rising about the safeguarding of personal data.
In Europe, new legislation has tightened regulations on how
companies can use personal information. Loss or inappropriate
use of data could have major consequences for both individuals
and businesses.
There is a continuing focus on issues such as diversity, ranging from
equal pay to representation at senior management. The environment,
particularly climate change, ocean protection and plastic waste,
are issues where there is increased public concern and pressure
for action. Companies are also under increasing scrutiny on their
tax affairs, including their contribution and transparency. To be
successful companies must operate in a way that meets the
expectations of, and creates long-term value for, their wide range
of stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers
and suppliers.11
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Stakeholder engagement
Engaging with our stakeholders is key to our success and delivering This page sets out our key stakeholder groups, why they are
our strategy. We have various mechanisms that enable the Board and important to us and some of the ways in which we engage
management to understand and consider stakeholder views as part with them.
of their oversight and decision-making (see page 89).
Patients and consumers Investors
Insights from patient organisations and consumers enable us We maintain regular and constructive dialogue with investors to
to develop products and advocate for policies that better meet communicate our strategy and performance in order to promote
their needs. investor confidence and ensure our continued access to capital.
– Advisory boards and Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits provide – One-to-one meetings between Board members, senior executives
patient insights and institutional investors
– Engaging with and supporting patient groups (disclosed on gsk.com) – Running investor roadshows; attending conferences and events
and supporting initiatives that empower patients to get more involved – Annual General Meeting
in medicine development
– Our market research and consumer sensory labs help us understand
consumer needs
Healthcare professionals and medical experts R&D partners and academia
We work with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and medical experts We partner with scientific institutions, business partners, and
to understand patient needs and to ensure our products are being academia to further advance scientific discovery and development.
administered in the right way. – Establishing joint ventures to improve efficiency and strengthen
– Advisory boards to gather insights related to scientific research and improve innovation
and disease management – R&D collaborations such as our gene sequencing initiative
– Collaboration on clinical trials and research with 23andMe and UK Biobank
– Peer-to-peer scientific dialogue to increase understanding – Working with academic researchers to accelerate discovery
of diseases and develop effective prevention and development of new medicines
Governments and regulators NGOs and multilateral organisations
We work with governments and regulators to advocate for policies We work with partners to improve access to healthcare services
that encourage innovation, promote efficient management of and our products, and to advocate for the policy environment
healthcare spending and give patients the support they need. in which we can be successful.
– Engaging with regulatory bodies during drug development – Working with non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and partners
– Engaging with government health agencies to demonstrate to research and develop products to support global health
the value of our products – Partnering with NGOs and generic manufacturers to manufacture
– Working with governments to build a strong operating and supply our products to developing countries
environment for life sciences – Working with multilateral organisations to drive progress on key
global health priority areas
Suppliers Employees
We work with thousands of suppliers, large and small, who provide We involve and listen to employees to help us maintain strong
goods and services that support us in delivering high-quality, employee engagement and retain talented people.
safe products for our patients and consumers. – Conducting a twice-yearly global employee survey so we can
– Engaging with suppliers through our Third Party Oversight act on employee feedback
programme and external platforms to help monitor performance – Promoting informal dialogue and collaboration through our new
– Providing a platform for our suppliers to share best practices internal tech platform
in environmental performance through our Supplier Exchange – Let’s Talk events with leaders and members of the Corporate
online community Executive Team
– Auditing our suppliers’ quality processes to ensure they comply – Established a Board-level Workforce Engagement Director
with relevant regulations (Dr Vivienne Cox) (see page 90)12
GSK Annual Report 2018
Our business model
We discover, develop and manufacture innovative pharmaceutical
medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products. Our operations
span the value chain, from identifying and researching ground-breaking
discoveries, through development and testing to regulatory approval,
manufacturing and commercialisation.
Our resources: How we create value: The value we create:
Talented employees Our purpose For patients and
Our people help deliver consumers
our purpose with their We improve the
To help people do more, feel better, live longer
scientific and technical health of patients and
know-how and their consumers around
expertise in regulation, the world through our
intellectual property and innovative medicines,
commercialisation Our long-term priorities vaccines and consumer
(see page 28). healthcare products
(see pages 13, 18, 21).
Innovation Performance Trust
Partnerships For investors
Business development helps We deliver growth
strengthen our pipeline and based performance
Through our three global businesses we
complement our in-house and in 2018 we paid a
resources. We have important improve health and create financial value: dividend of 80p per
relationships with external share to shareholders
organisations, suppliers and Invest in scientific research (see pages 17, 20, 22).
third parties (see page 11). We invested £3.9 billion in research and
development to bring new medicines, vaccines For employees
and consumer healthcare products to patients, We employ 95,490
payers and consumers. people globally and
Access to capital offer a broad range
Generate revenue and profit
Cash, equity and debt of benefits, including
We generate revenue by executing new product
enables us to invest in preventative healthcare
launches brilliantly and from the sales of our
our business over the services for all
existing portfolios.
long term (see page 57). employees, to attract,
Reinvest and distribute returns retain and motivate
As part of our capital allocation framework we the best people to
reinvest in our three businesses and also provide support our business.
returns to shareholders in the form of dividends. (see page 28).
Culture
We are committed to building a culture with greater performance focus underpinned by our values and expectations.
Our values Our expectations
Patient focus – Transparency – Respect – Integrity Courage – Accountability – Development – Teamwork13
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals
Our Pharmaceuticals business has a broad portfolio of innovative and
established medicines, with leadership positions in respiratory and HIV.
We are strengthening our pipeline through a focus on immunology,
human genetics and advanced technologies to help us identify the
most promising new medicines.
Progress against our long-term priorities
Innovation Performance Trust
– New R&D approach with a focus on – Total 2018 turnover £17.3 billion, – Approval of tafenoquine, the first
science related to the immune system, flat AER, up 2% CER new treatment for P. vivax malaria
human genetics and advanced in 60 years
– New Respiratory product sales
technologies
£2.6 billion, up 35% AER, 38% CER; – Partnering to increase access to
– Strengthened pipeline with 331 of 46 HIV sales £4.7 billion, up 9% AER, paediatric formulations of our HIV
medicines in development targeting 11% CER medicines
modulation of the immune system
– Refined the priority markets in – Trained over 15,000 healthcare
– Accelerated our oncology pipeline by which we target our resources to professionals across 21 countries
doubling the number of assets in clinical accelerate growth on the appropriate use of antibiotics
development via advancing key internal
– Simplified our Pharmaceuticals
assets, e.g. GSK ‘916, and targeted
supply chain, separating it from
business development, e.g. acquisition
Consumer Healthcare, to improve
of Tesaro and the proposed alliance
competitiveness
with Merck KGaA.
– Launched Juluca, the first two-drug
HIV regimen, and expanded indications
for Trelegy Ellipta and Nucala
Innovation
To strengthen our pipeline and deliver the next generation of HIV
medicines that we see bringing the greatest value to patients, We have a long-standing commitment to advancing the treatment,
we are embedding a new approach to R&D. prevention and cure of HIV by developing medicines that suppress
This approach focuses on science related to the immune system, or prevent the virus in new ways and help reduce the burden of
the use of human genetics, and advanced technologies, and is driven treatment. Our HIV business is managed through ViiV Healthcare,
by the multiplier effect of Science x Technology x Culture. It will a global specialist HIV company that GSK controls as majority
help us to accelerate the pace at which we develop and deliver owner, with Pfizer and Shionogi also as shareholders. Its broad
transformational medicines, prioritising those molecules with a higher portfolio of 13 antiretroviral medicines offers a wide range of
probability of success and terminating less promising programmes. therapeutic options for people living with HIV. They include the
It will also enable us to increase our focus on specialty medicines highly successful therapies, Tivicay and Triumeq, which are based
in areas such as oncology. on dolutegravir, the world-leading core agent.
We have a broad clinical pipeline including 46 potential new Marking a new era in HIV care, Juluca, the first two-drug regimen
medicines in development for a range of diseases. This includes (2DR), once-daily, single-pill for the treatment of HIV, has now
161 oncology assets – double the number we had at the start of been launched in the US, Japan and several European markets.
2018. 33 of our potential new medicines are immunomodulators, By containing fewer drugs than conventional HIV therapies,
reflecting our scientific focus on immunology as the area where Juluca – and the other potential 2DRs in the pipeline – reduces
we see the greatest potential. In 2019, we anticipate phase III data patients’ exposure to multiple medicines during what is often
read-outs in key areas including HIV, oncology and respiratory. life-long treatment.
For us to focus more effectively and ensure we rapidly progress In 2018, we filed regulatory submissions in the US and Europe for
only the best assets, our culture encourages smart risk-taking and another single-tablet 2DR, of dolutegravir and lamivudine. These
single-point accountable decision making. Dr Hal Barron, Chief followed the phase III GEMINI 1 & 2 studies which demonstrated
Scientific Officer and President, R&D, has been instrumental in similar efficacy for the 2DR compared with traditional three-drug
driving scientific innovation since he joined GSK in January 2018. regimens. Decisions on regulatory approvals are anticipated in 2019.
1 Includes M7824, the subject of the proposed alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt,
Germany, expected to close in Q1 2019.14
GSK Annual Report 2018
Pharmaceuticals continued
We made further progress with the investigational once-monthly, Clinical trials to assess the use of Zejula as a monotherapy and in
long-acting injectable 2DR of cabotegravir and rilpivirine, a new combinations for the significantly larger opportunity of first line
option for patients that avoids daily, oral treatment. The LATTE-2 maintenance treatment of ovarian cancer are under way. Results
study showed high rates of virologic response and long-term from the first of these studies, PRIMA, are expected in late 2019.
durability over a three-year period, while the FLAIR and ATLAS Zejula is also being investigated as a possible treatment in lung,
studies both demonstrated similar efficacy to Triumeq with a breast and prostate cancer, both as a monotherapy and in
once-monthly injection. Regulatory filing with the FDA is planned combination with other medicines. In addition to Zejula, Tesaro
in 2019. has several other oncology assets in its pipeline including a
PD-1 inhibitor (TSR-042, dostarlimab) currently being studied
In other research, the INSPIRING phase IIIb study demonstrated
for endometrial cancer. We expect pivotal data that could support
the efficacy and safety of a dolutegravir-based treatment regimen
a regulatory filing of dostarlimab in the second half of 2019.
in HIV and tuberculosis co-infected patients.
In January 2019, we announced a proposed global strategic alliance
A phase III study of fostemsavir on heavily treatment-experienced
with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, to jointly develop and
patients with HIV, whose current antiretroviral medicines are
commercialise M7824 (bintrafusp alfa). M7824 is an investigational
proving inadequate, also delivered positive results. An application
bifunctional fusion protein immunotherapy that is currently in clinical
for regulatory approval of fostemsavir is expected to be filed in 2019.
development, including potential registration studies, for multiple
Oncology difficult-to-treat cancers. This includes a phase II trial to investigate
Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the developed world. M7824 compared with pembrolizumab as a first line treatment in
We are focused on delivering transformational therapies for people patients with PD-L1 expressing advanced non-small cell lung cancer
living with cancer. Our pipeline is focused on immuno-oncology, (NSCLC).
cell therapy and cancer epigenetics. In 2018, we made significant
We have completed the transition of the NY-ESO SPEAR T-cell
progress by doubling the number of oncology assets in clinical
therapy programme to GSK from Adaptimmune. Early trial data
development to 16.1 Our goal is to achieve a sustainable flow of
suggests that this asset could be transformational in synovial sarcoma.
new treatments based on a diversified portfolio of investigational
It is the first cell therapy to show clinical response in solid tumours and
medicines utilising modalities such as small molecules, antibodies,
is another recipient of European PRIME and FDA breakthrough status.
antibody drug conjugates and cells, either alone or in combination.
Another of our oncology therapies is an agonistic antibody for
Our antibody drug conjugate targeting BCMA, GSK 2857916,
inducible T-cell costimulator (ICOS) – the first investigational
has the potential to target multiple myeloma. It has been granted
anti-ICOS agonist antibody to enter human clinical trials. Phase I
European PRIME and FDA breakthrough status, potentially enabling
safety, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data, for the therapy
faster regulatory review, and has also been recognised as an orphan
alone and in combination with pembrolizumab, show early, positive
drug. Despite advances in treatment of multiple myeloma over the last
indications of activity.
decade, there remains no cure and high unmet need. We have an
extensive development plan exploring use in the fourth to first line Respiratory
settings. In fourth line, following encouraging efficacy data from the We have led the way in developing innovative medicines that advance
DREAMM-1 study, we initiated the pivotal DREAMM-2 study which the management of asthma and COPD for nearly 50 years. Over the
was fully recruited by October 2018. Data is expected in mid-2019 past five years, we have launched six respiratory medicines, giving us
with potential regulatory submissions by year end. The second line the broadest portfolio of once-daily, inhaled respiratory medicines in
DREAMM-6 pilot study looking at use in combination with standard our industry.
of care was initiated in 2018. The results which will be available in
In 2018, we launched Trelegy Ellipta in 26 countries. We are now
2019 will inform future pivotal studies. The DREAMM-5 pilot study
class leaders in key markets including the US, UK and France.
looking at first line use in relapsed and refractory patients is planned
to start in 2019. Following the landmark IMPACT trial in which Trelegy Ellipta
demonstrated superiority to two of our dual medicines on multiple
In 2018, we accelerated the strengthening of our pipeline with the
endpoints, expanded indications were approved in the US and
acquisition of Tesaro, an oncology-focused biopharmaceutical
Europe, enabling use across a broader group of COPD patients.
company. Tesaro’s major marketed product, Zejula, is an oral poly
We submitted regulatory filings for Trelegy Ellipta in Japan and
ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor approved in the US and
China – the first for a single inhaler triple therapy for COPD in both
Europe for adults with recurrent ovarian cancer. PARP inhibitors
countries. Further launches are planned throughout 2019. Results
are transforming the treatment of ovarian cancer, demonstrating
from our phase III CAPTAIN study, which is exploring the efficacy
marked clinical benefit in patients with and without germline
and safety of Trelegy Ellipta in asthma, are anticipated in 2019.
mutations in a BRCA gene. We believe they also offer significant
opportunities for treating patients with many other cancer types. Our Ellipta portfolio was further strengthened with an expanded
indication for Relvar Ellipta in asthma, and applications to support
label updates in the US and Europe for Anoro Ellipta and Incruse
Ellipta.
1 Includes M7824, the subject of the proposed alliance with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt,
Germany, expected to close in Q1 2019.15
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our first-in-class severe eosinophilic asthma biologic, Nucala, Advanced technologies
gained approval in Europe as the first anti-interleukin (IL-5) with
a paediatric indication, alongside its earlier approval for adults. Significant investment in a wide range of advanced technologies
We also filed regulatory submissions for a paediatric licence in is central to our new R&D approach. We are developing a core
the US, and in the EU and US for a new formulation of Nucala capability in artificial intelligence and machine learning, to enhance
that could be used subcutaneously to allow patients or caregivers our ability to interpret and understand genetics and genomic data.
to administer treatment themselves. We will also invest in functional genomics, applying techniques for
gene modification such as CRISPR technology, to help discover
We continue to innovate in respiratory biologics, with investigational
and validate potential targets. These investments supplement our
programmes for Nucala in nasal polyps and hypereosinophilic
existing strengths in other advanced technologies, including our
syndrome.
leading position in cell and gene therapy, which we continue
Immuno-inflammation to develop.
Benlysta is the world’s first and only biologic medicine specifically
Partnerships are key to our innovation. In 2018, we formed an
approved to treat systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a chronic,
exclusive collaboration with 23andMe, the world’s leading consumer
incurable, autoimmune disease. Building on data from four previous
genetics and research company. This will combine our scientific
phase III clinical trials, we presented results from the phase II PLUTO
and medical knowledge with 23andMe’s large-scale genetic
study exploring use in paediatric patients with childhood-onset SLE.
resources and unique data science skills, improving the probability
In addition, the pivotal phase III BLISS studies showed low rates of
of R&D success. This exciting collaboration builds on our existing
organ damage progression in SLE patients treated with Benlysta.
partnerships, such as the Altius Institute, which pioneers new
Results from the phase IV EMBRACE study of black adult patients technologies and approaches for decoding gene control; the UK
with active, autoantibody-positive SLE are expected in 2019. We also Biobank, which is generating anonymised genetic sequence data
began a new phase III study investigating Benlysta in combination from 500,000 volunteers, and the Open Targets consortium, which
with rituximab in adult patients with SLE. This is assessing whether supports an open access search engine that searches, evaluates
co-administration enhances Benlysta’s treatment effect, to potentially and integrates biologic and genetic disease data.
provide sustained disease control, with the possibility of clinical
remission. Headline results are expected in 2020. Improving R&D governance
We are continuing research into our anti-GM-CSF antibody for
We have established two new governance boards, the Research
patients with rheumatoid arthritis and expect to progress to phase III
Review Board (RRB) and the Development Review Board (DRB).
in 2019.
The RRB is accountable for our future portfolio, providing technical
Additional programmes review on the quality of our research and early-stage programmes.
In 2018, we received approvals in the US and Australia for Krintafel/ The DRB reviews late-stage programmes to make sure our studies
Kozenis (tafenoquine), the first new treatment for P. vivax malaria are robust and innovative.
in over 60 years (see page 25).
Aligned to these changes, we have created separate organisations
In Japan, we announced positive phase III results for daprodustat, for research and for development to enable rigorous and disciplined
an oral hypoxia-inducible factor prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor, in patients decision-making and oversight across the early and late stage
with anaemia associated with chronic kidney disease, and a strategic portfolio. Due to their specialist nature, we have kept distinct R&D
collaboration with the Kyowa Hakko Kirin Company for its future units for oncology and global health.
commercialisation. In addition, we have two ongoing daprodustat
To support the most promising potential medicines in the portfolio
phase III studies which are anticipated to report in 2020.
we terminated or divested around 80 programmes. Terminations
We also continue to develop gepotidacin, the first in a new class included danirixin, miridesap and dezamizumab. We also transferred
of antibiotics. our rare disease gene therapy portfolio to Orchard Therapeutics,
in which we have become an equity shareholder, and sold the rights
to tapinarof to Dermavant Sciences.16
GSK Annual Report 2018
Pharmaceuticals continued
Pharmaceuticals pipeline overview
We have 46 assets in development, with 33 immunomodulators of which 16 are focused on oncology.
We expect a number of pivotal readouts in 2019.
Phase Compound Indication
Pivotal/registration* Benlysta + Rituxan1 SLE2
cabotegravir2 LA + rilpivirine1 LA HIV
D3, dolutegravir + lamivudine HIV
1278863 (daprodustat HIF-PHI) anaemia
3684934 (fostemsavir HIV AI) HIV
Nucala COPD/HES/nasal polyps
Trelegy Ellipta1 asthma
Dectova1,4 IV influenza
28579161 (BCMA ADC)1 multiple myeloma
Zejula (PARP inhibitor)1 first-line maintenance ovarian cancer2
dostarlimab (PD-1 antagonist )1 endometrial cancer
Phase II 31961651 (GM-CSF inhibitor) RA
33894041/32288361 (HBV ASO) HBV
33596091 (ICOS receptor agonist) cancer
2982772 (RIP1k inhibitor) pso/RA/UC
37728471 (IL33r antagonist) severe asthma
33777941 (NY-ESO-1 TCR) cancer
25868811 (rhACE2) acute lung injury/PAH
2140944 (gepotidacin, topoisomerase IV inhibitor) antibacterial
2330811 (OSM antagonist) systemic sclerosis
2881078 (SARM) COPD muscle weakness
2862277 (TNFR1 antagonist) acute lung injury
31749981 (OX40 agonist) cancer
525762 (BET inhibitor) cancer
2330672 (IBAT inhibitor) cholestatic pruritus
33265951 (PRMT5 inhibitor) cancer
GR1216191 (oxytocin) postpartum haemorrhage
TSR-022 (TIM-3 antagonist)1 cancer
M78241,3 (TGFβ trap/anti PD-L1 bispecific) NSCLC2
Phase I 28317811 (LAG3) ulcerative colitis
33586991 (BET targeted inhibitor) RA
38582791 (CCL17 antagonist) OA
2636771 (PI3kb inhibitor) cancer
2983559 (RIP2k inhibitor) IBD
30366561 (leucyl t-RNA inhibitor) TB
3640254 (HIV maturation inhibitor) HIV
35112941 (IL5 LA antagonist) asthma
2292767 (PI3kd inhibitor) respiratory diseases
1795091 (TLR4 agonist) cancer
38101091 (broadly neutralizing antibody) HIV
35371421 (NYESO1 ImmTAC) cancer
34391711 (HPGD2 inhibitor) muscle repair
3145095 (RIP1k inhibitor) pancreatic cancer
33687151 (PRMT1 inhibitor) cancer
TSR-033 (LAG3)1 cancer
2269557 (nemiralisib PI3Kd inhibitor) APDS
* Includes programmes in pivotal phases of development or where pivotal data has reported and regulatory submissions are under consideration or under review.
1 In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party.
2 Additional indications also under investigation.
3 Pending closure of transaction with Merck, KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany.
4 Subject to regulatory approval.
Note: for oncology where phase I studies are conducted in patients, the shift from phase I to phase II is defined when expansion cohorts are started.17
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Performance
2018 performance summary In recent years, we have significantly strengthened our online
resources and in-house medical capabilities to provide bespoke
Pharmaceuticals turnover in 2018 was £17,269 million, flat at product information for healthcare professionals (HCPs). In 2018,
AER, but up 2% CER, driven primarily by the growth in HIV sales. we updated our policy on working with HCPs, following consistent
In the US, sales declined 2% AER but grew 1% at CER, with feedback that they value the opportunity to learn about new products
growth in the HIV portfolio and Benlysta offsetting declines in through peer-to-peer programmes with expert practitioners who have
established pharmaceuticals and respiratory following patent direct experience of our medicines.
expiries. In Europe, sales grew 2% AER, 1% CER, with growth
The new policy will ensure prescribers have access to all available
in the respiratory portfolio offsetting the continued impact of
information on our innovative products, so they can make fully
generic competition to Epzicom and Avodart. International was
informed decisions that support better outcomes for patients.
flat at AER but grew 5% CER, with growth driven by HIV and
When we have new medicines or significant new data we will allow
the new respiratory portfolio.
payment to global experts to speak about the scientific evidence,
Respiratory sales declined 1% AER, but grew 1% CER, to £6,928 the diseases they treat and their own clinical experience. The change
million, with growth from the Ellipta portfolio and Nucala partly offset was implemented in the US and Japan in late 2018, and depending
by lower sales of Seretide/Advair as the market prepares for the entry on effective implementation and assessment of risk will be
of a generic. Sales of new respiratory products, comprising Ellipta implemented in other major developed markets in Europe, North
products and Nucala, grew 35% AER, 38% CER to £2,612 million. America and Asia from 2019 onwards. To avoid any perceived
conflict of interest, we have strengthened our commitment to
HIV sales increased 9% AER, 11% CER to £4,722 million,
transparency with new controls and expanded disclosure of
reflecting share growth in the dolutegravir portfolio: Triumeq,
payments to individual HCPs.
Tivicay and Juluca. This was partly offset by the decline in the
established portfolio, particularly the impact of generic competition
Creating a simpler, competitive supply chain
to Epzicom/Kivexa in Europe.
Immuno-inflammation sales were up 25% AER, 28% CER in 2018, Reliable supply is fundamental to enabling growth in key therapy
primarily driven by Benlysta. areas. Our Pharmaceuticals supply performance levels continued
Our Established Pharmaceuticals portfolio includes mainly off-patent to improve in 2018 with an on-time, in-full supply to customers
medicines. Sales were £5,147 million, down 7% AER, 4% CER, rating of 95.3%. All new products were launched on time.
reflecting efforts to maximise the value from this portfolio but also the We are adopting a simplified structure and operating model geared
benefit of certain post-divestment contract manufacturing sales and to driving performance with increased focus on priority brands and
the first instalment of a 12-month Relenza supply contract in Europe. markets, clearer accountabilities and more pace. This has included
The Pharmaceuticals operating margin of 33.3% was 1.0 percentage separating our Pharmaceuticals manufacturing and supply
points lower at AER than in 2017 and 0.9 percentage points lower organisation from our Consumer Healthcare network.
on a CER basis. This primarily reflected increased investment in new We continued to adapt our manufacturing network to support
product support, the continued impact of lower prices, particularly growth, improve competitiveness and meet business and patient
in respiratory, the broader transition of the respiratory portfolio, and needs. We opened a £54 million facility in Montrose, Scotland to
a reduction in royalty income. This was partly offset by the benefits supply active pharmaceutical ingredients for our Ellipta respiratory
of prioritisation within R&D and a favourable comparison with the medicines, and a £26 million facility in Parma, Italy that will produce
impact of the Priority Review Voucher purchased in 2017. fostemsavir, our investigational HIV treatment.
We revised our supply and demand, warehousing and distribution
Focusing our resources to accelerate growth
operations to align with commercial priorities and announced
manufacturing site closures in Mexico and Bangladesh. Following
In 2018, we made significant changes to the way our Pharmaceuticals
an extensive review of our cephalosporins antibiotics assets we
organisation works to accelerate growth and deliver the best results
decided to restructure its supply chain and manufacturing site at
for all our stakeholders.
Ulverston in the UK. This will help us improve competitiveness and
We refocused our resources, prioritising the major markets such support growth in emerging markets. We continued to simplify our
as the US and China, while reducing investment in lower priority supplier base and product portfolio and are ahead of schedule to
markets. We have also prioritised resource behind brands and reduce our contract manufacturers by 35% by 2021.
therapies with the greatest growth potential and which generate
The Pharmaceuticals manufacturing and supply organisation again
the highest revenue. To support our ambitions for the oncology
delivered good performance for safety, quality and compliance.
therapies in our pipeline, we strengthened our oncology commercial
There were 55 regulatory inspections in 2018, all resulting in
infrastructure; recruiting more experts in oncology and haematology
satisfactory outcomes.
and co-locating our R&D and commercial teams.
We simplified our commercial, medical and regulatory teams,
with fewer complex structures, systems and processes, and
clearer accountabilities. This enables greater speed and efficiency
and frees local operating companies to focus on customer-facing
activities and insights. The savings released by these changes
will be reinvested into our priority products and markets.18
GSK Annual Report 2018
Vaccines
We are the leading vaccines company in the world, delivering over 2 million
vaccine doses every day to people living in 158 countries. Our portfolio and
pipeline help protect individuals throughout their lives. We have recently
introduced breakthrough vaccines Shingrix for shingles and Bexsero, the
first vaccine for meningitis B.
Progress against our long-term priorities
Innovation Performance Trust
– Shingrix launched successfully in the – Total 2018 turnover £5.9 billion, – Over 120 million doses of vaccines
US and Canada up 14% AER, up 16% CER delivered to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance,
to help prevent pneumococcal disease,
– 23% of 2018 sales came from recent – Grew ahead of the market,
rotavirus and cervical cancer
innovations, driven by Shingrix and strengthening our position as the
Bexsero leading vaccines company by value – 270 million doses of oral polio vaccine
delivered to UNICEF for the Global
– We have 16 candidate vaccines across – In addition to Shingrix, key
Polio Eradication Initiative
all R&D phases contributions from our influenza and
hepatitis franchises, and Bexsero – Positive results from candidate TB
– Capabilities in science and new
vaccine in phase IIb trial
technologies continues to be
differentiator
Innovation
Our Vaccines business has 16 innovative candidate vaccines. Delivering best-in-class innovation
We balance our focus on this robust pipeline with the active
life-cycle management of our existing vaccines, helping to protect Shingles
more people through expanded indications and geographies. In 2018, our breakthrough shingles vaccine, Shingrix, was
Our investment in breakthrough vaccines technologies creates recognised as the most successful biopharma launch in the past
a real point of differentiation and will deliver further benefits in the 10 years in North America1. In June, Canada’s National Advisory
future. We have more than 2,500 vaccines scientists working in three Committee on Immunization (NACI) made a strong recommendation
global R&D centres, in Belgium, Italy and the US. This international for Shingrix to be offered to people over 50, following a similar
spread equips us with a diversity of skills and culture, helps to attract opinion in the US in 2017. In March, Shingrix received licensing
the best talent, and opens doors to external partnerships. In 2018, approval in the EU and Japan, and in May we launched it in Germany.
the proportion of our sales from innovations introduced in the past In December, the Standing Committee on Vaccination in Germany,
five years was 23%. STIKO, recommended Shingrix for all people over 60 and for those
over 50 with an immune-compromising condition or severe
We are expanding our capabilities to become a stronger player in
underlying disease. The vaccine was approved in Australia in
the world’s largest vaccines markets, the US and China. To achieve
July 2018. In line with our phased launch strategy, we have the
this goal, we are simplifying complexity across the business, reducing
detailed capacity plans in place that are necessary to deliver
R&D timelines and developing a more dynamic culture. In September,
the meaningful increase in doses needed to meet long-term
Roger Connor became the new President, Global Vaccines.
global demand.
Shingrix marks a step change in the prevention of shingles, a painful
and potentially serious condition that affects more than one in three
people during their lifetimes. It was designed specifically to address
the challenge of age-related decline in immunity and is the first
approved shingles vaccine to combine a non-live antigen, to trigger
a targeted immune response, with a specifically designed adjuvant
to generate a strong and sustained immune response. Clinical
trials have proven Shingrix efficacy of more than 90% for all
age groups studied.
1 Source – independent assessment from IQVIA.19
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Meningitis The phase I and II studies demonstrated that our candidate vaccine
We are the market leader in vaccines against meningococcal was safe and capable of inducing an immune response. We began
meningitis, with our complementary portfolio of Menveo, against a phase IIb (proof of concept) study in Europe and North America
serogroups A, C, W, and Y, and Bexsero, targeting serogroup B. in 2017, with efficacy results expected in mid-2020.
In 2018, we continued to consolidate our leadership by broadening In influenza, we are working on a universal (supra-seasonal) vaccine
the age range that our vaccines cover. In the US, where Bexsero is with researchers at Mount Sinai in the US. We also expanded the
licensed for 10-to-25-year-olds, the vaccine received Breakthrough indications for our existing flu vaccines, with European approval for
Therapy Designation from the FDA for children between two- and a paediatric indication for Fluarix Tetra.
10 years old. In June, the European Medicines Agency approved
a new, alternative (2+1) dosing schedule for Bexsero in infants New technologies
(in addition to the existing 3+1 schedule), offering healthcare
professionals more options to help protect infants from invasive Our success in innovation reflects our unique combination of
meningococcal disease (IMD) caused by serogroup B and the advanced technologies, scientific experts across three global
potential for fewer visits to the doctor for families. R&D centres, and external collaborations. Our broad range of
technologies includes adjuvant systems, self-amplifying messenger
We continued to support external research into meningitis B,
RNA (SAM), bioconjugates, generalised modules for membrane
including funding the largest-ever study into the adolescent carriage
antigens (GMMA) and the chimpanzee adenovirus (ChAd) platform.
of meningococcal bacteria. The study, led by the University of
Such capabilities have the potential to significantly reduce the cost
Adelaide, saw more than 34,000 teenagers being vaccinated with
and time of vaccine development and help make radical advances
Bexsero. The early findings, which are a significant step forward
that address unmet medical needs.
in scientific understanding, show there was a fall in the number
of meningitis B cases in South Australian adolescents, but no
External partnerships
statistically significant reduction in nasopharyngeal carriage of the
bacteria that causes the disease. As such, these preliminary results
Partnerships remain central to our innovation. We have around
underscore the need for direct vaccination of vulnerable individuals,
150 external scientific collaborations, with most of our 16 candidate
particularly infants and adolescents, as the best way to protect
vaccines being developed in partnership. Our partnerships and
against meningococcal B disease.
technologies also support our work on tuberculosis and shigella
We advanced our work on new formulations for meningitis vaccines, for instance, which is part of our ongoing commitment to developing
with our fully liquid Menveo candidate vaccine entering phase II vaccines against the diseases of the developing world. Such
clinical trials. The phase III results for the US Menveo booster found collaborations enable our Vaccines scientists to learn from other
that it can effectively and safely extend protection four to six years leading experts and stay close to emerging technologies and
after a primary course of MenACWY vaccine. We also remain new science.
committed to the challenging goal of developing a single vaccine
to cover the five most common meningitis serogroups of A, B, C,
W and Y.
Other priority assets
We are pursuing a full portfolio of vaccines against respiratory
Vaccines pipeline
syncytial virus (RSV), tailored to the different age groups most
at risk of infection from the virus. There is currently no prophylactic
vaccine approved for the prevention of respiratory disease caused Phase Indication/vaccine
by RSV, in spite of the significant medical need. Our maternal Phase III Shingrix (for immunocompromised)
vaccine is designed to increase antibodies in the mother that will Bexsero (infants in the US)
transfer to the baby and help protect them in the first months of life,
Rotarix (PCV-free)
when the disease is most severe. Our candidate paediatric vaccine,
MMR (in US)
given directly to babies, is designed to induce protection from the
disease throughout childhood and, potentially, for recipients’ entire Phase II COPD
lives. In late 2018, we began a phase I/II trial for children, and Hepatitis C
commenced a phase I study on the maternal vaccine. The US Malaria (next gen)
FDA has given fast track designation to our RSV candidate
MenABCWY
vaccines for pregnant women and older adults, which have just
Menveo (liquid)
entered clinical development.
Shigella
By 2030, COPD is predicted to become the world’s third-leading
Tuberculosis
cause of death. Our COPD candidate vaccine marks a move away
from the traditional concept of a vaccine given to healthy people RSV paediatric
to prevent a specific disease towards the development of a HIV
disease-modifying vaccine that could reduce the frequency Phase I/II RSV older adults
of COPD exacerbations and slow down the disease’s progress.
Flu universal
It combines two antigens from bacteria commonly found in acute
RSV maternal
COPD exacerbations with our proprietary adjuvant system, ASO1.20
GSK Annual Report 2018
Vaccines continued
Performance
2018 performance summary Focusing on growth markets
Vaccines turnover grew 14% AER, 16% CER to £5,894 million, In 2018, we strengthened our position as the world’s leading
primarily driven by growth in sales of Shingrix, hepatitis vaccines, vaccines company by value. Sales grew ahead of the market,
which also benefited from a competitor supply shortage, and higher increasing our market share and profitability.
sales of influenza products.
Having established our leadership in Europe and emerging markets,
The operating margin of 33.0% was 1.1 percentage points higher at we are now focusing on increasing our presence in the world’s
AER than in 2017 and 2.5 percentage points higher on a CER basis. largest vaccines markets – US and China – to protect more people
This was primarily driven by enhanced operating leverage from strong and improve business performance. The US is our number one
sales growth, an improved product mix, including the impact of the priority market and our performance in the US in 2018 has been
launch of Shingrix, together with further restructuring and integration particularly strong. We welcome the Chinese government’s recent
benefits. This was partly offset by the comparison with the benefit steps to fast-track the approval of ‘clinically urgently needed’ new
of a settlement for lost third-party supply volume recorded in 2017, medicines and vaccines, reflecting its commitment to enabling
increased supply chain costs and increased SG&A investments faster entry of new prevention and treatment options. We look
to support new launches and business growth. forward to responding to that need with our innovative vaccines
in the years ahead.
Shingrix recorded sales of £784 million, primarily in the US and
Canada, driven by demand and share gains. US sales benefited
Creating a simpler, competitive supply chain
from market growth in new patient populations now covered by
immunisation recommendations and Shingrix has now achieved
We have 13 manufacturing sites, across 10 countries. This
a 98% market share. In the first half of 2018 alone, Shingrix
international presence enables us to produce our vaccines with
performed twice as strongly as the competitor vaccine had
flexibility, as demonstrated during the year, when we leveraged our
during the whole of 2017.
secondary manufacturing network to increase capacity for Shingrix.
Meningitis sales were down 1% AER but up 2% CER to
We have delivered more than 9 million doses globally since launch
£881 million. Bexsero sales grew 5% AER, 9% CER, driven by
and we are working hard to build capacity and meet long-term
demand and share gains in the US, together with continued growth
global demand. We continue to target high-teens millions of doses
in private market sales in International, partly offset by the completion
over the next two or three years. To do this, we are undertaking
of vaccination of catch-up cohorts in certain markets in Europe.
multiple initiatives to boost production across our global
Menveo sales declined 15% AER, 12% CER, primarily reflecting
manufacturing network in the US and Europe, and at every stage
supply constraints in Europe and International as well as a strong
of the manufacturing process from primary antigen production to
comparator in 2017 and unfavourable year-on-year CDC stockpile
packaging. These initiatives will ensure sustainable, steady supply
movements in the US, partly offset by demand and share gains
growth for the vaccine over the coming years.
in the US.
During the year, we continued to simplify our supply chain, and
Fluarix/FluLaval sales grew 7% AER, 10% CER to £523 million,
discontinued several vaccines that duplicate existing products.
driven by strong sales execution in the US and improved sales
Our ongoing investment in our manufacturing network enabled
in Europe, partly offset by increased price competition in the US.
a 10% growth in our filling volume and we maintained our strong
Established Vaccines sales were down 1% AER and flat CER focus on the safety and high quality of all our vaccines.
reflecting lower sales of DTPa-containing vaccines (Infanrix, Pediarix
and Boostrix) due to increased competitive pressures, particularly
in Europe, and unfavourable year-on-year CDC stockpile movements
in the US, together with lower Synflorix sales, reflecting lower pricing
and demand in emerging markets. Hepatitis vaccines sales grew
17% AER, 19% CER to £808 million, benefiting from stronger
demand in the US and Europe, as well as a competitor supply
shortage in the US.21
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Consumer Healthcare
Our Consumer Healthcare business combines science and consumer
insights to develop innovative everyday healthcare brands for oral health,
pain relief, respiratory, skin health, nutrition and digestive health categories.
In 2018, we reached agreement with Pfizer to combine our consumer
healthcare businesses into a new world-leading joint venture.
Progress against our long-term priorities
Innovation Performance Trust
– Worldwide rollout of Sensodyne – Total 2018 turnover £7.7 billion, – Supply chain service levels continued
Rapid Relief, Voltaren No Mess and down 1% AER, up 2% CER to improve, achieving 98% on-time,
parodontax/Corsodyl in-full delivery performance
– Bought out Novartis’ 36.5% stake
– Science-based innovations included in Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture – Five-year partnership with Smile Train
Theraflu PowerPods and a Polident for £9.2 billion launched to help more children access
denture care range life-changing cleft lip and palate surgery
– Agreement with Pfizer to combine our
– New digital innovation hub established consumer healthcare businesses into – Continued our partnership with Allied
to accelerate innovations in self-care a new world-leading joint venture Against Dengue in India and South
East Asia to prevent outbreaks of
– Announced the sale of Horlicks
dengue fever
and other consumer nutrition brands
to Unilever – Employee engagement score
increased to 81%
Innovation
We delivered 36 first market launches across our categories and In pain relief, we continued the rollout of Voltaren No Mess in an
250 roll outs of new products. In 2018, the proportion of our sales additional 17 markets in 2018, including Russia, UK, Australia, Italy
from innovations introduced in the past three years was 11%. and Spain. The innovative No Mess cap was designed to address
a key consumer barrier to using topical pain relief and makes the
Delivering best-in-class innovation product easier and less messy to apply.
In digestive health, we launched two extensions of our Tums brand.
We use deep consumer insights and scientific and technical expertise
Tums Gas Relief which offers consumers multi-symptom relief from
to deliver innovations across each of our categories. For example,
heartburn as well as gas, was introduced in our ‘chewy bites’ format
in oral health, we further strengthened our leadership in denture care
which is the preferred format for the growing number of younger
with the delivery of two innovations to improve the experience for
consumers entering this category. We also introduced a sugar-free
denture wearers. We addressed a consumer need for an easy,
version of Tums in 2018 for consumers looking to reduce their overall
discreet denture-cleaning solution with the launch of Polident Clean
daily sugar intake.
& Refresh wipes, which can be used anywhere without the need
for water. The wipes combine a unique and patented combination of Building industry-leading capabilities
tear-resistant tissue and a double mint solution, offering consumers Each of our main categories is supported by a dedicated global
a quick and effective clean and improved denture confidence. innovation hub, where our scientists work in close partnership with
In addition, our new denture adhesive, Polident Max Seal, has an commercial teams. This means that R&D in each of our hubs is both
innovative precision nozzle with a finer tip which enables exactly the science-based and consumer-led and helps speed new innovations
right amount of fixative to be applied, creating a precise seal around to market. The network’s footprint in Europe, the US and Asia, also
the edge of the denture for a more comfortable eating experience. enables us to stay close – and relevant – to all global trends and
The successful rollout of Sensodyne Rapid Relief, a premium markets.
extension of our Sensodyne brand, continued. Launched in 2017,
Our Consumer Sensory Labs enable us to listen to, understand
it is designed to provide fast relief from tooth sensitivity in as little
and meet the needs of consumers. Scientists and commercial teams
as 60 seconds. During 2018, we introduced it in an additional
in these labs assess consumer reactions to products during the
40 markets, including the US, Italy, Argentina, New Zealand and
development process to help improve existing products and develop
Egypt bringing the total number of successful market launches
new ones. During the year, we brought the capabilities of our sensory
to more than 90.
labs closer to our markets via labs in the US, the UK and India so
In respiratory, consumer insight inspired the packaging innovation that we can understand consumer preferences in different parts
behind Theraflu PowerPods, a new extension of Theraflu, our of the world. For example, we developed Otrivin Unblock & Heal in
respiratory power brand. Theraflu PowerPods, which were launched in response to consumer need for a medicated spray that both relieves
the US, contain cold and flu relief medicine or active ingredients within the congestion and nasal dryness that can accompany a cold and
a pod that can be used in single-serve coffee makers. This format is also helps fight the virus. We launched this triple-action spray in
much more convenient for US consumers, who rarely use kettles. Europe in late 2018.22
GSK Annual Report 2018
Consumer Healthcare continued
The increasing use of digital technology is revolutionising the way External partnerships
that consumers learn about, buy, and use healthcare products.
In 2018, we created a new London-based consumer healthcare By combining the insights and expertise of our scientists with
digital innovation hub. The hub is a close partnership of commercial, breakthrough ideas developed externally, we can develop and deliver
technology and R&D, focused on identifying and accelerating a strong, competitive pipeline of consumer-led, science-based
innovations in our categories to develop digitally driven brands, innovation. Since 2016, the percentage of innovation sales coming
products and services that consumers can use to monitor, manage from externally sourced product innovation has increased fivefold.
and improve their own health. In 2018, products from external partnerships accounted for 11% of
innovation sales, including Otrivin Unblock & Heal. During the year,
Emerging markets opportunities we entered into over 30 external R&D partnerships and our aim is
that they will make up 30% of our pipeline in the future.
More than one-third of our sales are in emerging markets, where
increasing prosperity is boosting the proportion of middle-class
consumers and, in turn, the demand for consumer healthcare.
Our innovation hubs in India and China are at the forefront of our
efforts to understand and meet this growing consumer need, and
to remain competitive in these important markets. In India, we entered
the high protein drink category with the launch of Horlicks Protein
Plus which blends quality, fast and slow release proteins with its
high level of amino acids, enabling the product to develop stronger
science-based claims than its competitors.
Performance
2018 performance summary In pain relief, sales were flat. Low single-digit growth in Voltaren,
supported by the roll-out of Voltaren No Mess in 20 markets, and
Our marketing and innovation resources are targeted on the double-digit growth in Fenbid were offset by a decline in Panadol
brands which deliver the strongest growth and highest returns – sales due to a change in the route-to-market model in South East
our seven global power brands, including Sensodyne, Voltaren, Asia and the discontinuation of slow-release Panadol products in
Panadol and Theraflu, and our 12 regional core brands, such as the Nordic countries.
Tums and Excedrin. Together, these brands drive performance
Nutrition sales declined 5% AER but grew 1% CER to £643 million.
of Consumer Healthcare and reinforce our global leadership
The nutrition business in India performed strongly across the product
in pain relief, respiratory and therapeutic oral health.
portfolio including new innovations such as Horlicks Protein Plus.
Consumer Healthcare sales were £7,658 million, down 1% AER The impact of divestments and India GST implementation on nutrition
and up 2% CER, with broad-based growth in oral health and category growth was approximately eight percentage points.
wellness partly offset by a decline in Panadol and lower sales Skin health sales were down 4% AER, 1% CER to £579 million.
of smaller brands. International markets performed strongly,
Consumer Healthcare operating margin of 19.8% was
particularly India and Brazil, while Europe was impacted by
2.1 percentage points higher than in 2017 and 2.2 percentage
intensifying competitive pressure in the second half of 2018.
points higher on a CER basis. This primarily reflected improved
The aggregate impact from generic competition on Transderm
product mix and manufacturing restructuring and integration
Scop in the US, the divestment of Horlicks and MaxiNutrition
benefits, as well as continued focus on delivering improved return
in the UK and other small non-strategic brands and implementation
on investment on our advertising and promotional spend.
of the Goods & Service Tax (GST) in India reduced overall sales
growth by approximately one percentage point.
Strategic business development
Oral health sales grew 1% AER, 4% CER to £2,496 million, as
increased competitive pressures in Europe were offset by double During 2018, we made further progress against our Performance
digit growth from Sensodyne in a number of International markets, priority to deliver sales growth, operating margin improvements
including India and Turkey, and strong single-digit growth in the US and attractive returns, completing a £9.2 billion buyout of Novartis’
driven by Sensodyne Rapid Relief. Our premium gum health brand 36.5% stake in GSK Consumer Healthcare in June.
parodontax/Corsodyl became the world’s fastest growing global
After conducting a strategic review of our nutrition portfolio, in
toothpaste, outperforming the market four fold, driven by continued
December we announced the sale of Horlicks and other consumer
momentum in the US since its launch in 2017, and a strategic brand
nutrition brands to Unilever. As part of this transaction, we
repositioning across 40 countries. Our denture care brands out-
announced that we will merge our 72.5% stake in GlaxoSmithKline
performed the category, supported by innovations including Polident
Consumer Healthcare Limited in India with Hindustan Unilever
Max Seal and Polident Clean & Refresh, further strengthening our
Limited. The proposed merger includes a distribution arrangement,
global leadership position.
which will allow Hindustan Unilever Limited to leverage its scale and
Wellness sales declined 2% AER but grew 1% CER to strong reach to sell and distribute our OTC and oral health brands
£3,940 million. Respiratory sales grew in low single digits, led by in India. This transaction is expected to close by the end of 2019.
Theraflu supported by a strong cold and flu season earlier in the
year. Otrivin grew in mid single digits, benefiting from new variants,
and Flonase returned to growth following a weaker allergy season
earlier this year.23
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Most recently, we reached an agreement with Pfizer in December Winning with shoppers, customers and experts
2018 to combine our consumer healthcare businesses to create
a new world-leading joint venture with combined sales of Expert endorsement builds trust in our brands and drives shopper
approximately £9.8 billion. This brings together two highly purchase decisions. Sensodyne, for instance, is the number one
complementary portfolios of trusted consumer healthcare brands, dentist-recommended brand for sensitivity in 80% of the markets in
including GSK’s Sensodyne, Voltaren and Panadol and Pfizer’s, which we compete. Of our OTC brands 70% are sold in pharmacies.
Advil, Centrum and Caltrate. The new combined business will We continued to prioritise our relationships with dentists and
have leadership positions in pain relief, respiratory and vitamins, pharmacists and to invest in information that supports our products.
minerals and supplements in addition to our number one position In 2018, our expert sales representatives called on 400,000 dentists
in therapeutic oral healthcare, and will be well positioned to deliver in over 90 markets to share relevant science-based information
strong sales, cash flow and earnings growth. and we published approximately 30 abstracts on our clinical trials
and science.
Together, these moves provide confidence to improve our margin
target to mid-to-high-20s by 2022, assuming the close of the Business partnering with retailers is key. For example, our top six
transaction with Pfizer. This improvement is expected to be achieved customers in the US account for approximately 70% of our sales
in part by delivering £0.5 billion of total annual costs savings through there. We continue to develop our strong capabilities in joint
the joint venture and additionally through delivery of a business-wide business planning, category management and distribution
programme aimed at freeing up cash to improve returns to management to ensure we win with our retailers.
shareholders and reinvest in the business to drive growth. This is
Our Shopper Science Labs in the UK, US and Singapore use
focused on four pillars: net revenue management to maximise the
state-of-the-art technology to track shopper behaviour in real time
value of our brands with shoppers and customers; cost and cash
to provide us with rich insights on consumers’ shopping habits
discipline enabled by zero-based budgeting; strategic resource
around the world. We have satellite facilities located by the
allocation to focus our investments in the right areas to get the
headquarters of our major retail partners. These labs enable
best returns; and increased efficiencies in our supply chain.
us to adapt the shopping experience to meet each consumer’s
Joining forces with Pfizer Consumer Healthcare will be need and make decisions about what new products, promotions
transformational to the scale of GSK Consumer Healthcare and or packaging will really make a difference.
lays the foundations for the new JV to be separated from GSK
via a demerger. This is expected to take place within three years Creating a simpler, competitive supply chain
of closing the transaction with Pfizer, which we expect to occur
in the second half of 2019, subject to approvals. Further details on We have continued to strengthen our supply chain and reduce
the risks associated to the transaction are set out on page 36. complexity to improve efficiency. In addition, we have formally
integrated it within our business, where previously some central
Digital transformation resources and processes were shared between the Consumer
Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals supply chains as a central unit.
By putting digital technology at the heart of our business, we aim We also reorganised our supply chain on a regional basis, more
to deliver more meaningful interactions with consumers, fuel brand closely reflecting our commercial operations, to make it more
growth and achieve efficiency savings. In 2018, we invested responsive and agile.
strongly in our digital capabilities, including hiring expert new talent.
During 2018, we sold two sites (Aiken, US and Slough, UK) and
Reflecting the far higher return on online media, compared with announced the closure of three more in Ireland, the US and the
traditional television advertising, we significantly increased the Philippines as part of our commitment to remove complexity across
digital balance of our marketing. To streamline our media buying, our network and streamline our operations. Overall, since 2015,
we appointed one global media agency to oversee our digital and we have removed four sites from our supply chain network and
offline paid media strategy and planning around the world. We also announced the closure of another five. We continued to streamline
boosted our attractiveness in e-commerce channels by optimising the number of contract manufacturers (CMOs) we use and have
the findability of our products, developing rich content for retailer reduced the number by almost 30% since 2015. We continued
portals, and securing high-profile ads on customers’ e-commerce to simplify our portfolio by further reducing the number of different
sites. To enrich our people’s digital skills, we rolled out a new ways that our products are packaged.
Marketing IQ development programme to 1,300 of our marketers.
Our manufacturing sites recorded a strong on-time in-full delivery
Our digital impact is aided by innovative industry partnerships: performance, as service levels continued to improve. Reflecting
a collaboration with Google helps us deliver relevant content to this good performance, the supply chain successfully supported
consumers, while a partnership with Chinese marketing and media our growing power brands and met business innovation targets
organisation Alimama enables us to target shoppers with appropriate in full, including all first-market launches.
and timely information. Our partnership with Google has driven
We continued to drive and deliver robust performance in quality
greater efficiency in our media targeting. We drove 4.5 billion more
and safety, with no issues arising from regulatory inspections.
viewable digital media impressions than the same investment would
have generated in 2017, representing a 74% increase. We also draw
on invaluable external insights from our Digital Advisory Board (DAB),
which is made up of digital marketing, data and e-commerce experts.
Members of the GSK Consumer Healthcare strategic leadership
team attend DAB meetings and benefit from the mentorship of
a DAB member. The role of the DAB is to challenge our thinking
and help shape our digital strategy.24
GSK Annual Report 2018
Trust
Operating responsibly to deliver on our purpose and ensure the greatest
possible long-term impact in improving health around the world.
Trust is one of our three long-term priorities and is essential to External benchmarking
how we deliver our purpose. Society has high expectations of us, – ATMI: topped the Access to Medicines Index and led the industry
and the dynamic environment in which we operate presents us in the Antimicrobial Resistance Benchmark.
with big challenges and opportunities that we must respond to
– DJSI: ranked 2nd in the DJSI World and Europe indices, placing
in order to remain commercially successful, uphold our reputation
us in the top 2% of our sector.
and build trust.
– FTSE4Good: member of the FTSE4Good Index since 2004.
To ensure that we are able to identify and respond to these
expectations effectively, we need to have mechanisms in place to – CDP: received a score of ‘B’ in CDP Carbon and CDP Water.
engage with our key stakeholders. On page 9 we summarise the key Named a CDP Supplier Engagement Leader in CDP's supply
trends for our industry and on page 11 we highlight how we engage chain programme.
across the different stakeholder groups.
– Corporate Political Engagement Index: ranked number one
With these external expectations in mind, in 2018 we published in Transparency International UK’s 2018 Corporate Political
a new set of 13 commitments describing the actions we will take Engagement Index.
to help deliver societal value and build trust. Our ambitious
Our approach to reporting
commitments will drive progress in three key areas, underpinned by
From 2019, we are reporting progress against our 13 commitments
our fundamental commitments to running our business responsibly:
in our Annual Report to reflect the integration of our responsible
– Using our science and technology to address health needs business approach into our core business strategy. A performance
– Making our products affordable and available data document is also available online to provide both current and
previous years’ data. These replace the annual publication of our
– Being a modern employer
Responsible Business Supplement.
G SK.com: 2018 performance data summary
Our commitments on Trust
Our purpose is to help people do more, feel better and live longer
Using our science and technology Making our products affordable Being a modern
to address health needs and available employer
New medical innovations Pricing Engaged people
Develop differentiated, high-quality Improve the health of millions of people Achieve and maintain a competitive
and needed medicines, vaccines each year by making our products employee engagement score by 2022
and consumer healthcare products available at responsible prices that
Inclusion and diversity
to improve health are sustainable for our business
Accelerate our progress on inclusion
Global health Product reach and diversity, aiming for over 37% female
Improve global health impact through Use access strategies to reach representation in senior roles and
R&D for infectious diseases that affect 800 million underserved people in recognition in global LGBT+ indices,
children and young people in developing developing countries with our products by 2022
countries focusing on HIV, malaria by 2025
Health, wellbeing and development
and TB
Healthcare access Be a leading company in how we support
Health security Partner to improve disease prevention, employee health, wellbeing and personal
Help the world to better prepare for awareness and access to healthcare development
future disease outbreaks with pandemic services by 12 million people by 2025
potential, and tackle antimicrobial
resistance
Being a responsible business
Reliable supply Ethics and values Data and engagement Environment
Commit to quality, safety and Operate an ethical, values- Use data responsibly and Reduce our environmental
reliable supply of our products driven culture, in which any transparently. Improve patient impact by one quarter by 2030
for patients and consumers issues are responded to swiftly and scientific engagement
and transparently25
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Science and technology
We are using our science and technology to address health needs. We are continuing the trial with the International AIDS Vaccine
This is achieved through our medical innovation but we also have Initiative, a long-standing GSK collaborator in HIV vaccine
a responsibility to impact global health, particularly in the prevention development, which has recently acquired Aeras’ TB vaccine
and treatment of infectious diseases where we have world-leading clinical programme.
scientific expertise. We have taken a proactive approach to
GSK also has a number of promising TB medicines in development,
addressing some of the biggest global health challenges, from
including two that are in preparation for phase II trials. We are
preventing child deaths from infectious diseases to tackling the
a member of several major public–private partnerships and
urgent public health threat from growing resistance to antibiotics.
programmes, such as the TB Drug Accelerator, which aim to
speed up the discovery and development of novel compounds
New medical innovations
against the disease. We currently have three pre-clinical candidates
and a strong discovery pipeline arising from these partnerships.
The biggest impact that we can have as a science-led global
healthcare company is to successfully research and develop Malaria
innovative products. Through our innovation, we aim to develop In 2018, we received approval from the US FDA and the Australian
differentiated, high-quality and needed medicines, vaccines and Therapeutic Goods Administration for tafenoquine (Krintafel/
consumer healthcare products to improve health. Read more about Kozenis), a single-dose radical cure for P. vivax malaria developed
innovation within our three businesses on pages 13, 18 and 21. in partnership with the Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV).
This is the first new treatment for this type of relapsing malaria in over
Global health 60 years and marks a major contribution towards efforts to eradicate
the disease. Together with our partners, MMV and PATH, we aim
Each year malaria, TB and HIV/AIDS kill almost 3 million people, to provide the treatment at an affordable price in malaria endemic
the vast majority in developing countries. There remains huge need countries. We have submitted a regulatory filing for tafenoquine
for innovation to address this. Our new global health strategy aims in Brazil, the first submission in a malaria endemic country.
to improve global health impact through R&D for infectious diseases
Our RTS,S vaccine aims to protect children from P. falciparum
that affect children and young people in developing countries,
malaria, which is most common in sub-Saharan Africa and
focusing on HIV, malaria and TB.
responsible for most malarial deaths worldwide. Ghana, Kenya and
The biggest contribution we can make is through our science, but to Malawi have approved the use of RTS,S for malaria as part of a pilot
have the greatest impact, we need strong collaboration with others vaccination implementation programme coordinated by the WHO.
to ensure there is always a clear path for our innovation – end to end Clinical trials are also under way for a next-generation malaria vaccine.
– from lab to patient. We have learned from our malaria vaccine and
HIV
our chlorhexidine gel, Umbipro, that getting our innovation to patients
Developing new formulations of HIV medications specifically for
in developing countries is extremely challenging where the traditional
children, who are disproportionately affected by the disease in
route to market is absent. We cannot alone carry the significant
developing countries, is a global priority. Through ViiV Healthcare,
costs and risks associated with full clinical development, registration,
we are progressing clinical development programmes for paediatric
manufacture and market access for new medicines and vaccines that
formulations of our medicines in partnership with the International
don’t have a commercial return. Without action to secure the right
Maternal Paediatric Adolescent AIDS Clinical Trials Network and
procurement models and partnerships, we risk the potential impact
the Paediatric European Network for Treatment of AIDS.
of these treatments being undermined. Instead we need new
sustainable, collaborative models, where risk and costs are shared TB is a leading cause of death for people living with HIV and this
across partners, to translate scientific discoveries into benefit for co-infection is hard to treat. A phase IV study of ViiV Healthcare’s
the most vulnerable patients. Tivicay (dolutegravir) in combination with other antiretrovirals
demonstrated positive results in people receiving treatment for both
As well as addressing the disease burden in developing countries,
HIV and TB. The latest WHO HIV treatment guidelines recommend
our investment in global health also brings business benefits, which
dolutegravir-based regimens as the preferred first- and second-line
helps us to ensure that it is sustainable over the long term. The
treatment.
innovative science and platforms discovered through global health
R&D can be applied commercially. For example, the adjuvant used Other developing world diseases
in our RTS,S malaria vaccine has been pivotal to the success of our As well as our main focus on HIV, TB and malaria, our early discovery
shingles vaccine, Shingrix, and is being used in our TB candidate work allows us to pursue the most promising scientific leads in other
vaccine, M72, and a number of other vaccines in development. areas, both within GSK and through our Tres Cantos Open Lab and
Our discovery work in infectious diseases also has the potential Vaccines Institute for Global Health.
to uncover insights relevant to other disease areas that will benefit
In 2018, we pledged an additional £5 million in funding for the
our portfolio in the long term.
Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation. The Open Lab furthers R&D for
Tuberculosis diseases of the developing world by offering external researchers
We are aiming to develop a world-leading portfolio of first-in-class the potential to access GSK’s compound library, screening tools
medicines for TB, including a candidate vaccine in a phase IIb trial. and scientific expertise. As well as supporting research into TB
We have been working with non-profit scientific organisation Aeras and malaria, projects include neglected tropical diseases such
to develop the vaccine with the support of the Bill & Melinda Gates as Chagas disease, leishmaniasis and sleeping sickness. Since it
Foundation, the UK’s Department for International Development and was established in 2010, the Open Lab has approved 74 projects,
others. We received positive interim results in 2018 for the phase IIb trained 85 scientists in global health drug discovery and delivered
study, which showed that our candidate vaccine reduced the risk of a significant pipeline of candidate medicines, including a novel
developing pulmonary TB by half in adults with latent TB infection. TB drug candidate with treatment shortening potential.26
GSK Annual Report 2018
Trust continued
The Vaccines Institute for Global Health also has around We are also committed to researching and developing new vaccines
40 scientists working on diseases such as Shigella, invasive against infections that will reduce the need for antibiotics even
nontyphoidal salmonella, typhoid and paratyphoid fever, and further. For example, we are currently developing vaccines against
Group A streptococcus. RSV (a virus), as well as shigellosis and TB (both caused
by bacteria) which are all drivers of current antibiotic use.
Health security
In our Pharmaceuticals pipeline, gepotidacin, is the first in a new
class of antibiotics. In 2018, we worked with the UK government
We are using our vaccines, medicines and scientific know-how to
on the proposal to develop and test a new payment model that
help the world to better prepare for future disease outbreaks with
should incentivise much-needed R&D into new antibiotics from
pandemic potential, and tackle antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
the pharmaceutical industry. We are pleased that the UK will be
To prepare for future public health emergencies, we continue to the first country in the world to progress this type of model, and
advance rapid-response vaccine platform technologies and we are have submitted gepotidacin to the programme.
collaborating on the development of a universal influenza vaccine
We supported the creation of the Innovative Medicines Initiative’s
candidate.
AMR Accelerator, which launched a call for proposals in 2018.
AMR is one of the biggest health challenges the world faces and This public–private partnership will aim to speed up the discovery
we are playing a leading role in the industry’s response, ranking and development of new medicines to treat or prevent resistant
first among the large pharmaceutical companies in the Access bacterial infections through collaboration and capability building.
to Medicine Foundation’s AMR Benchmark in 2018.
Through our Survey of Antibiotic Resistance (SOAR) programme,
Vaccines play a critical role in avoiding the need for antibiotics by we study, analyse and publish reports on antibiotic resistance at
preventing bacterial, viral and other infections. Our vaccines against a local level and share the findings with HCPs and public health
diseases such as diphtheria, meningitis, pneumonia and pertussis bodies to inform the development of local antibiotic prescribing
have protected tens of millions of individuals from bacterial infections, guidelines. In 2018, we trained over 15,000 HCPs across 20
which are major drivers of direct antibiotic prescribing. In addition, countries on the appropriate use of antibiotics.
our vaccines for non-bacterial infections such as influenza, rotavirus
G SK.com: Antimicrobial resistance
and malaria prevent the development of diseases that can trigger
the use of antibiotics, for example to treat secondary infections.
Affordability and availability
We are making our products affordable and available to more people In the US, the pricing of all our product launches – including our
around the world through responsible pricing, and strategic access most recent launches of Trelegy Ellipta, Benlysta SC, Shingrix and
programmes and partnerships. Juluca – incorporate specific market dynamics unique to the drug,
as well as the profile of the new medicine or vaccine in the context
In 2018, GSK topped the Access to Medicines Index for the sixth
of existing treatment options.
consecutive time. The assessment recognised us for having the
largest proportion of our R&D pipeline dedicated to priority diseases, The average net price1 for our products in the US has fallen by
and for the creation of an integrated Global Health R&D unit to around 3% on average per year over the past five years. We also
stimulate collaboration. offer various types of patient assistance to help ensure appropriate
access to our medicines, and in 2018 we provided prescribed
Pricing medicines and vaccines to over 126,000 eligible uninsured patients
through our Patient Assistance Programme.
We aim to improve the health of millions of people each year by
In Europe, we engage with governments and payers to work
making our products available at responsible prices that are
towards sustainable health systems that support ongoing innovation.
sustainable for our business.
For example, the pricing of Trelegy Ellipta reflects economic value
In developing countries, we use innovative pricing structures as by demonstrating cost-effectiveness and innovation within an
part of our access strategies to extend product reach (see page 27). acceptable budget and offering a potential cost saving compared
However, we recognise that pricing of pharmaceutical medicines with alternatives.
and vaccines is also an important issue in developed countries,
We do not file patents for our medicines in least developed countries
and we understand patient and payer concerns about affordability.
and low-income countries, and do not enforce historic patents that
When setting the price of our medicines in developed markets, we we have in those countries. This allows generic companies to
apply a value-based approach to balance reward for innovation with manufacture and supply generic versions of GSK medicines in
access and affordability. We price our medicines according to the those countries.
value and outcomes they bring to patients, providers and payers,
G SK.com: IP and access in developing countries
while being sensitive to market and societal expectations.
1 Price after discounts, rebates or other allowances.27
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Product reach Healthcare access
We have set a new target to use access strategies to reach We have set a new long-term target to partner to improve
800 million underserved people in developing countries with our disease prevention, awareness and access to healthcare services
products by 2025. These strategies include tiered pricing, product for 12 million people by 2025. In 2018, we reached 4.2 million people
donations and voluntary licensing agreements to extend access through these partnerships.
through generic manufacturers. In 2018, our products reached
This year, we have invested a further £10.5 million in improving
over 102 million people through these access strategies.1
health infrastructure in developing countries by training frontline
In accordance with our tiered pricing principles, we reserve our health workers in partnership with Amref Health Africa, CARE
lowest vaccines prices for organisations such as Gavi, the Vaccine International and Save the Children. This support is tailored to
Alliance, which supports countries with a GNI per head of less meet specific community needs and align with government health
than $1,580. Eight Gavi countries are now using our new four-dose priorities. In 2018, this investment helped to train over 20,000
vial presentation of our Synflorix pneumococcal vaccine, designed frontline health workers, and over two million people were directly
to address cold chain challenges in hot countries, and our Rotarix reached with a health worker, healthcare service or health facility.2
vaccine is available in 36 Gavi countries to protect against rotavirus.
As well as our efforts to combat malaria through R&D (see page 25),
In 2018, we distributed around two million doses of our vaccine
we have partnered with Comic Relief in Africa and South East Asia
Cervarix in Zimbabwe in support of its multi-age cohort vaccination
to support 21 local projects that improve awareness and prevention
programme to protect over 800,000 girls against human
efforts and get treatment to the people who need it. Together,
papillomavirus. In 2018, we delivered 270 million doses of oral
we reached more than one million people in 2018, including health
polio vaccine to UNICEF in support of the Global Polio Eradication
workers and vulnerable populations such as pregnant women and
Initiative, reaching over 54 million children.
young children.
Umbipro, our innovative chlorhexidine gel to prevent umbilical cord
Alongside local and global partner organisations, we continue
infections, has been approved in 13 countries so far and has already
efforts to remove stigma and support HIV education and prevention
benefited over 30,000 newborns in Kenya. Created in partnership
in at-risk communities around the world through ViiV Healthcare’s
with Save the Children, this potentially life-saving product is available
Positive Action programmes for girls and women, adolescents,
at an access price (not for profit, not for loss). In collaboration with
children, men who have sex with men (MSM) and transgender
USP and USAID, we will share manufacturing know-how to stimulate
people. In 2018, for example, ViiV awarded grants of £2.3 million
local production and wider access to quality-assured chlorhexidine
to support organisations working to prevent and treat paediatric HIV,
in developing countries.
and £1.8 million to support social science research in adolescent
In 2018, ViiV Healthcare extended its voluntary licence agreements HIV. Our Positive Action for Children programme reached over
for dolutegravir with the UN-backed Medicines Patent Pool and our 530,000 people in 2018 with interventions to alleviate the impact
direct licensee Aurobindo to two further countries – Mongolia and of HIV and AIDS on women and children’s health.
Tunisia – to enable generic manufacturers to supply dolutegravir
Our partnership with Save the Children aims to combine the two
to more adults living with HIV. Our joint partnership with the Clinton
organisations’ global expertise, skills and energy to help reduce
Health Access Initiative, Unitaid and two generic manufacturers is
child mortality. In 2018, the partnership reached over 220,000
also helping to catalyse the development, manufacture and supply
children under five (over 2.8 million children since 2013) with
of paediatric formulations of dolutegravir.
interventions including: widening immunisation coverage,
In 2018, we donated over 840 million albendazole tablets (8.5 billion accelerating access treatments and strengthening healthcare
over the last two decades) to the WHO to tackle neglected tropical systems. We have extended our partnership over the next five
diseases, helping to deworm millions of school children and free years to support our shared ambition that no child under five
14 countries of lymphatic filariasis (LF). Tackling LF and intestinal should die from preventable causes.
worms is part of our commitment with the WHO and other partners
With GSK Consumer Healthcare’s heritage in specialist oral health,
to help control or eliminate 10 of the 17 neglected tropical diseases
we know the importance of a healthy mouth. This year, we launched
by 2020.
a five-year partnership with Smile Train to provide funding and
expertise that will help more children get access to life-changing
Through our partnership with Americares, Direct Relief, IHP UK
surgery for cleft lip and palate. We reached over 4,000 children in
and MAP International, we also donated 150,000 units of essential
the first year through corporate donations and employee fundraising.
medicines, including antibiotics and inhalers, for humanitarian and
emergency response in countries such as Guatemala, South As a leader in pain relief and fever management, GSK’s Consumer
Sudan and Syria. Healthcare business has also created the Allied Against Dengue
campaign in India and South East Asia. The campaign was created
GSK.com: Access to medicines in developing countries to bring together key stakeholders and partners to prevent and treat
outbreaks of dengue fever, a potentially fatal mosquito-borne disease.
In 2018, we trained over 1,000 healthcare workers and reached over
100,000 people through a range of programmes to mobilise
communities and promote behaviour change.
Our contribution to community health programmes amounted to
£224 million in 2018. This includes our support of access partnerships
such as Comic Relief and Save the Children, in-kind product
donations such as albendazole and those made through our Patient
Assistance programme, and the volunteering time of our employees.
1 Total excludes reach through albendazole donations which will be assessed
in 2025. GSK.com: Access to healthcare partnerships
ViiVHealthcare.com: Positive Action programmes
2 Health worker data is estimated based on 2017 reach through the same partner
programmes and level of funding. Final 2018 data will be available in April 2019.28
GSK Annual Report 2018
Trust continued
Modern employer
As a modern employer, we want to make sure that everyone is Women in management (%)
empowered to be themselves, feel good and keep growing at GSK.
2018 2017 2016 2015
We believe this will help us to attract, retain and motivate the very
SVP/VP 33 31 30 29
best people to support our business now and in the future.
Director 43 43 42 40
Engaged people Manager 48 47 46 45
Total 45 44 43 42
Employee engagement is an important barometer to gauge how our
people feel about working at GSK. We aim to achieve and maintain Employees by gender (number)
a competitive employee engagement score by 2022. Male Female Total
We now survey our employees twice a year to get more regular Board 6 5 11
feedback about how we are doing on our long-term priorities and Management* 9,704 8,051 17,755
culture change. For our first global employee survey of the year
Total 53,188 42,302 95,490
in April 2018, we had a record high 84% response rate and the
results showed we had strong employee engagement at 79%. * Management: senior managers as defined in the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic
Report and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 which includes persons
For the second survey in September, we saw a one-point drop
responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the company,
in engagement but it remained high at 78%. or a strategically significant part of the company, other than the Board, including
directors or undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
As part of our culture change, we have encouraged our people
to share their views and ideas on key topics through regular We support development and career progression for high-performing
conversations hosted by our leaders, including Let’s Talk sessions female managers through our Accelerating Difference programme,
with our executive team. We also introduced a collaborative internal which provided coaching and support for around 130 women in
tech platform to enable employees to communicate and collaborate 2018. We also recruit and support women early in their careers,
more informally, discuss the topics that matter to them, and share with women representing more than half of the intake of our graduate
knowledge and perspectives to support faster decisions across and MBA programmes and 35% of our apprentices in 2018.
the organisation. More than 68,000 users are active on this new We published our second gender pay gap report in 2018.
online tool. Our gender pay gap for all permanent UK-based GSK employees
is 2.15% (mean), outperforming the national average of 17.1%.
Inclusion and diversity
We do not tolerate harassment, unwelcome, unreasonable or
offensive behaviour, or discrimination of any kind. This includes any
We take a progressive approach to inclusion and diversity because
form of sexual harassment and, in 2018, we included a module in our
we want everyone to be themselves and bring their own perspectives
mandatory Code of Conduct training to reinforce our zero-tolerance
to our business. Together, these unique perspectives and wide
approach. This emphasised the importance of bystander intervention
variety of personal experiences make our business stronger,
to empower our employees to intervene if they see harassment
enhancing our ability to innovate and respond to the diverse
occurring.
needs of patients and consumers around the world.
In September 2018, nearly 3,700 people at 150 locations took part
We want to accelerate our progress on inclusion and diversity,
in activities to raise awareness of our commitment to inclusion and
aiming for over 37% female representation in senior roles and
diversity during Global Inclusion Week. As part of this, we launched
recognition in global LGBT+ indices, by 2022.
new learning programmes focused on unconscious bias and
In 2018, women made up 33% of our senior roles at SVP/VP resources to help build leaders’ awareness of inclusion and diversity.
level (up from 31% in 2017) and we maintained strong female
We have a Global Disability Council and a Global LGBT+ Council,
representation at management level (45%). In January 2018,
as well as inclusion and diversity implementation groups. In addition,
we signed up to the 30% Club gender campaign focused on
in 2018 we created new global gender and ethnicity councils, all of
achieving 30% female representation in senior management
which will drive our diversity agenda with support from our employee
within FTSE 100 companies by 2020. GSK has already exceeded
resource groups. We achieved a top 10 listing for our LGBT+
this target and remains committed to maintaining and improving
Network Group at the British LGBT Awards and, in early 2019,
on this.
the group was named the UK’s ‘Employee Network Group of the
The latest independent Hampton-Alexander Review of FTSE 100 Year’ by the Stonewall LGBT rights organisation.
companies found that GSK has the sixth highest proportion of
In 2018, we pledged our support for the UN LGBTI Global Business
women on the Board with 45.5% representation. Overall, we have
Standards. In the US, GSK was named Best Place to Work for
increased our female senior executive population (our executive team
LGBT Equality for the third consecutive year in the Human Rights
and their direct reports) from 25.7% to 32.5% as our long-running
Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index and, in early 2019, we were
programmes to create a strong female pipeline deliver results.
ranked 24th in Stonewall’s UK Workplace Equality Index. We are
GSK is also one of 12 prominent healthcare and life science committed to removing barriers, increasing understanding and
companies to join the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association ensuring that those with disabilities have the same opportunities.
Gender Parity Collaborative in the US, launched in 2018 to foster We signed the Charter for Change at the 2018 UK government’s
measurable gender parity progress in the industry. Department for International Development Global Disability Summit,
joining other organisations with a common aim to ensure rights,
freedoms, dignity and inclusion for people with disabilities.29
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Health, wellbeing and development Development
We want our people to keep growing at every stage of their career.
We need resilient, motivated people with the right skills and That’s why development is one of four expectations for the company
knowledge to help us achieve our objectives. That is why we and we have a strong focus on improving the effectiveness of our
aim to be a leading company in how we support employee health, people managers. In 2018, 89% of our employees had development
wellbeing and personal development. plans in place and, in support of developing leaders, more than
Health and wellbeing 2,000 managers also participated in leadership development
programmes this year.
In 2018, we successfully rolled out a comprehensive preventive
healthcare package for our employees – and their eligible In 2018, we introduced One80 reviews for nearly 9,000 managers
dependants – in every country where we operate. The Partnership to help them improve based on feedback from their teams. Through
for Prevention programme, now covers over 200,000 people in a short survey, it measures leadership effectiveness in three key
every country in which we operate and includes up to 40 preventive areas: knowing their people, delivering results and maximising
healthcare services at little or no extra cost. potential. One80 is part of our performance management system
and is designed to ensure our managers are role models for our
We provide programmes to help our people feel good by taking
values and expectations, as well as helping them enhance their
control of their health, managing their energy levels and adopting
leadership skills. We know from One80 scores that employees
healthier behaviours – as well as giving them flexibility to manage
feel supported by managers in their development. The question
their lives through life-friendly policies.
“my manager provides highly effective coaching and guidance to
In 2018, more than 15,000 people took part in our energy and support my development” scored an average of 3.8 out of 5 from
resilience programmes. Our personalised digital health platform 51,630 responses. We are encouraged by this and have aspirations
was piloted by over 5,000 employees in Belgium and 38% said to further improve on these scores.
that they changed one or more health behaviours as a result.
GSK is now a member of the 5% Club, a group of companies
We will continue to roll out technology platforms to support
committed to hiring young people in development programmes into
a holistic approach to health and wellbeing in 2019.
at least 5% of UK roles. In 2018, 336 people joined our graduate
GSK was named the World’s Most Active Organisation by Virgin development programmes globally and 165 began apprenticeships
Pulse Global Challenge for the third year running, with over 15,500 in the UK, Canada, Ireland, Singapore, Belgium and the US.
employees collectively taking over 18 billion steps during May 2018.
This year, employees contributed over 120,000 volunteering hours
Participants reported increased productivity and lower stress levels.
through our Orange Days and 63 employees went on PULSE
Mental wellbeing is just as important as physical wellbeing and we assignments with 25 non-profit organisations in 31 countries to
raised awareness of this important issue on World Mental Health share their expertise and learn new skills. Our most recent volunteer
Day, encouraging people to seek support through our 24-hour assessment found that, after completing their assignment, 73%
confidential Employee Assistance Programme and other resources. agreed that they brought new ideas and fresh ways of thinking
Preventing injuries and illnesses at work is fundamental to our or working to GSK.
people’s health and wellbeing. Our reportable injury and illness rate
G SK.com: Employee volunteering • Training and development data
has continued to decline from 0.24 per 100,000 hours1 worked in
2017 to 0.23 in 2018, and remains comparable with other leading
companies in our sector.2
Reliable supply
Ensuring a high-quality, safe and reliable supply of our products for In 2018, we conducted 1,650 audits of our suppliers’ quality
patients and consumers is a priority for all three of our businesses. processes and 221 audits of clinical trials run by, or on behalf
Product shortages can happen for a variety of reasons, including of GSK, to assess their quality and safety.
supply disruptions and unexpected demand. Since launching our
Detecting, monitoring, understanding and preventing side effects
Shingrix vaccine, we have delivered more than 9 million doses globally,
(pharmacovigilance) is important in evaluating the safety of
but the unprecedented demand has meant that some people have
pharmaceutical products, and we work with the WHO and other
experienced supply shortages. We are working hard to build capacity
partners to enhance systems for reporting these. Through the
and meet this long-term global demand and we are committed to
TransCelerate Collaboration, we are working with others to promote
communicating transparently on the actions we are taking.
harmonised approaches and procedures for the clinical development
Our robust quality management system supports continuous and safety evaluation of drugs, and to implement key regulations.
improvement, helping us to maintain high standards for product
Counterfeit GSK products present a risk to patient safety.
quality and safety and comply with relevant regulations, including
We support efforts to prevent the manufacture and distribution
those on Good Manufacturing Practice, Good Pharmacovigilance
of counterfeit GSK products by working closely with government
Practice and Good Clinical Practice.
bodies, international organisations (such as the World Customs
Of the 151 external regulatory inspections at our Pharmaceutical, Organization and the WHO), customs authorities and industry
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites in 2018, associations. We also conduct our own investigation and
most found no issues or resulted in only minor observations. enforcement activities to tackle counterfeit GSK products.
We address every issue, however minor, and regulatory authorities Our commitment to high standards of product quality and safety
have accepted our proposed plans for corrective actions. across the value chain helps to ensure a reliable supply, which is
important for our performance (see the sections of this report on
performance in our individual businesses).
1 2017 data has been restated from 0.23 to 0.24 due to incidents reported
after the previous verification period. G SK.com: Pharmacovigilance • Anti-counterfeiting
2 Based on benchmarking data from the Pharmaceutical Safety Group.30
GSK Annual Report 2018
Trust continued
Ethics and values
We are committed to creating an ethical, values-driven culture, Reporting and investigating concerns
in which any issues are responded to swiftly and transparently.
We expect everyone at GSK to live our values and expectations, We encourage people to speak up if they have any concerns
speak up if they have any concerns, engage appropriately with relating to unethical conduct or behaviour that is inconsistent with
stakeholders and respect human rights. We also extend these our values – or if they simply want to ask a question about how to
ethical expectations to the third parties we work with. apply our Code of Conduct.
Living our values and expectations Anyone within or outside GSK can raise concerns or speak to an
independent third party through our integrity lines, confidentially
Together, our values (patient focus, integrity, respect and or anonymously if they prefer. We take every reported concern very
transparency) and expectations (courage, accountability, seriously and we review each one to understand whether a formal
development and teamwork) help us to create the culture we investigation is warranted. If our investigations show that an employee
want. They are included in our Code of Conduct, which we has breached our policies, we take appropriate disciplinary action.
have updated to make it simpler and easier to use.
In 2018, 2,842 employees were accused of misconduct; we
Every GSK employee and complementary worker is required to reviewed all of these cases, and initiated 1,805 formal investigations.
complete mandatory training on the Code of Conduct annually. As a result, 940 employees were disciplined for policy violations,
In 2018, 98% of our employees and 91% of our complementary of whom 115 employees were dismissed or voluntarily left the
workers completed the training, which covered topics such as safety, organisation. A further 656 received other documented warnings.
health and wellbeing, third party oversight, data breach reporting, In other instances, action short of a documented warning was taken.
sexual harassment, and anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC).
We also introduced additional microlearning modules to be taken Employees disciplined in 2018: breakdown of types of
throughout the year to keep our values and expectations top of mind, policy violation (%)
and updated our discussion guides for leaders to engage with their
teams about related topics. Further in-depth training for over 35,000 Mandatory training completion 29%
people used real-life examples of dilemmas experienced at GSK to Behaviour in the workplace 20%
help them understand how to manage ABAC risks relevant to their
Good manufacturing and distribution practices 11%
roles and reinforce our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and
Marketing and promotional activities 8%
corruption.
Expenses 4%
In 2018, we assessed 18 different parts of the business against
Protection of physical assets and security 3%
a values maturity matrix – including interviewing approximately
1,500 employees – to understand how well our values and Other 25%
expectations are embedded. Individual areas of the business
are using insights from the assessments to put plans in place Political engagement
that further enhance the way our values are integrated into ways
of working at GSK. Local examples include increasing opportunities Everyone working for, or on behalf of, GSK must follow our
for engagement with leadership teams to improve trust and Code of Conduct in their interactions with political stakeholders.
enhancing employee recognition to encourage a greater sense Additionally our selection process for public policy groups includes
of accountability. criteria to ensure those groups share our values.
In 2018, GSK topped Transparency International UK’s Corporate
GSK.com: GSK Code of Conduct
Political Engagement Index of 104 global companies operating in
the UK, based on criteria such as political contributions, responsible
lobbying and transparency in reporting.
We spent $4.57 million on federal lobbying activities in the US in
2018, which are registered on the US Federal Lobbying Register.
The spend includes the cost of operating our office in Washington
DC, and the cost of travel and consulting. The cost of representing
our interests to EU institutions, published on the EU Transparency
Register, was €1.73 million.1 We also publish a list of our
memberships in trade associations that may lobby indirectly
on our behalf.
GSK does not make corporate political contributions. Our US
employees may support individual candidates or political groups
financially through a Political Action Committee, which contributed
$345,190 to state and federal candidates in 2018. A breakdown
of this spend is available online.
GSK.com and online: EU Transparency Register • US Federal Lobbying
Register • Trade association membership list • Criteria for working with
Public Policy Groups
1 These are the latest available figures, and 2018 figures will be available in April
2019 for submission to the EU’s Transparency Register.31
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Human rights Working with third parties
GSK is committed to upholding the Universal Declaration of Human Our Third Party Oversight programme strengthens our management
Rights and the core labour standards set out by the International of risk in the supply chain by driving improvements in our network
Labour Organization. In 2018, as part of our commitment to of third parties – including suppliers, distributors and other
implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human organisations with which there is a transfer of value – to ensure
Rights, we reassessed our human rights risks to ensure we are that they share our values and work to the ethical and business
focusing efforts where our business has the greatest potential standards expected by GSK. The programme has now been rolled
to impact people. out across all areas of the business.
Six priority areas were identified: access to healthcare; research During 2018, over 23,000 risk assessments were completed,
practices; patient safety; labour rights; environment, health and and over 1,400 third parties identified as high-risk have undergone
safety; and privacy. An initial review found that there were appropriate detailed independent assessments by EcoVadis. In 2018, we
measures in place to manage the human rights risks related to most also conducted 83 in-depth audits on health and safety, ethics
of these areas, but identified the need to continue to strengthen and environment. While we will work with third parties to help
our approach to managing third-party labour rights risks. We are them improve, if significant issues are not resolved, we may
developing actions to address this, and will continue to build our suspend or terminate their contract.
understanding and management of human rights risks, taking
account of evolving external expectations and best practice. GSK.com: Working with third parties
G SK.com: Human rights • Modern Slavery Act statement
Data and engagement
We are committed to using data responsibly and transparently, In addition, people in key roles across the organisation are
and engaging with patients and healthcare providers to help meet undergoing certification from an accredited external association
patient needs. This includes treating data with respect, sharing to increase expertise and enable us to make informed decisions
the results of our clinical trials, integrating patient insights into about handling personal data.
our product development and providing healthcare professionals
The protection of individuals’ data and privacy is a high priority
with the information they want in the way that they want it.
in our exclusive collaboration with 23andMe, which combines
23andMe’s genetic expertise and advanced data science skills
Using data responsibly and transparently
with GSK’s extensive scientific capabilities and scale, to enhance
the discovery and development of entirely new medicines and
Data is becoming increasingly central to our business and the
potential cures. 23andMe customers can choose to participate in
healthcare industry more broadly. Our digital, data and analytics
research and contribute their information to the unique and dynamic
strategy harnesses the power of data and technology to strengthen
database for the purpose of advancing scientific research.
our business and make a real difference to patients around the world.
Participation is voluntary and customers are required to affirmatively
We believe this will help our scientists develop innovative medicines
consent to their data being used for research. Should they choose
more quickly and with higher probability of success than ever before,
to participate, their information is aggregated so no individual will
it will enhance clinical trials and improve interaction with healthcare
be identifiable to GSK.
providers, customers and consumers, and it will make our own
processes more efficient. Clinical trial transparency
As part of our long-standing commitment to data transparency for
Data privacy
our clinical trials, we have published 2,484 clinical study reports
We recognise that people are increasingly concerned about the
and 6,427 summaries of results – positive and negative – from our
protection, and inappropriate use of personal data, particularly
trials on our clinical study register.
when this is related to health. New EU regulations have also
increased requirements on how companies use personal data. We also share anonymised patient-level data from 2,333 of our trials
Loss or inappropriate use of personal information could have a via www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com, which we launched five years
serious impact, both on the individuals affected and on our business, ago to facilitate innovative data-driven research. It is now used by
and we take our responsibility for data and privacy very seriously. 19 other trial sponsors and funders. External researchers are granted
access based on a review of the scientific merit of their research
We have developed a comprehensive suite of training to drive a
proposal by an independent panel. Access to GSK trial data has
culture where everyone at GSK takes personal responsibility for
been approved for 125 proposals since 2013.
the correct handling of personal data. Our privacy principles ensure
that our use of personal information is kept to the minimum necessary GSK.com and online: GSK Privacy Notice • GSK Clinical Study Register
and is fair, transparent, accurate and secure. In 2018, we trained
113,000 of our employees and complementary workers on our
privacy principles to help them understand how to apply them
in their daily work and raise awareness of why privacy matters
for all those who handle personal data.32
GSK Annual Report 2018
Trust continued
Improve patient and scientific engagement To improve engagement with patients involved in our clinical trials,
we have begun developing patient engagement plans for key assets
To improve the delivery of ground-breaking new therapies, we are to get their input on the development of trial protocols, improve their
strengthening our focus on patients’ needs by seeking their insights experience during the trial and make sure they are informed about
across the business. In 2018, we began implementing new global the results when it is completed.
standards on working with and supporting patients.
Through our engagement with HCPs, we aim to provide information
We also support several initiatives that are empowering patients to on our products in the way that best suits them. In recent years,
get more involved in the development of medicines through training, we have significantly strengthened our online resources and
tools and dialogue – including the European Patients’ Academy, in-house medical capabilities to provide bespoke product information
PARADIGM (Patients Active in Research and Dialogues for an for HCPs.
Improved Generation of Medicines) and Patient Focused Medicines
In 2018, we updated our policy on working with HCPs, following
Development.
consistent feedback that they prefer to learn about new products
We held Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits in Japan, Portugal through peer-to-peer programmes with experts who have direct
and Switzerland and supported one in the US this year, to build experience of our medicines. The update was designed to ensure
relationships between GSK employees, patient advocates, health that we continue to operate responsibly and improve how we help
policy experts and industry. Representatives of patient organisations prescribers to understand new data and clinical experience with
also provide insights through our European Health Advisory Board our innovative products. The Pharmaceuticals section of this report
and our Respiratory Health Board. provides more detail on this policy change.
G SK.com: Patient engagement
Environment
Our new goal, by 2030, is to reduce our environmental impact by Globally, around 5% of our electricity came from renewable sources
one quarter, cutting greenhouse gas emissions, reducing water in 2018. We are targeting 60% by 2030, with an interim target
impact and redirecting waste for beneficial use. This is underpinned of 30% by 2020 to further reduce our operational emissions.
by five new environmental commitments for 2030 (against a 2016
In 2017 (our latest available data), Scope 3 emissions increased
baseline) to:
by less than 1%, but decreased by 8% per £1 billion revenue.1
– reduce operational carbon emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 20%; Our supply chain makes up the largest share (48%) of our value
chain carbon footprint. We encourage suppliers to share best
– reduce value chain carbon emissions (Scope 3) by 25%
practices through the GSK Supplier Exchange, running ‘kaizen’
per £ billion revenue;
events to improve energy efficiency and recognising achievements
– source 60% of electricity from renewable sources; through our Supplier Environmental Sustainability Awards.
– reduce total water use at each high-risk site by 30%;
Carbon emissions plus intensity ratios (as per regulations)
– ensure all waste is repurposed for beneficial uses.
‘000 tonnes CO2e2 2018 2017 2016
Scope 1 emissions 823 865 889
Carbon
Scope 2 emissions 606 694 700
We are committed to playing our part to address climate change. Scope 3 emissions Full data 18,152 17,897
In 2018, we set new targets to cut our carbon footprint across the available in
value chain, which are intended to be challenging but achievable. next year’s
report
We also conducted a review of the reporting requirements of the
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Intensity ratios 2018 2017 2016
and will be considering how we can use the guidelines to better Scope 1 and 2 emissions/ 46.4 51.5 56.0
understand and report the risks that climate change presents to sales revenue (tonnes
our business. In early 2019, we were accredited by the Science CO e/£m)
2
Based Targets Initiative for a set of Scope 1, 2 and 3 targets in line
Scope 1 and 2 emissions/ 15.0 15.8 16.0
with a level of decarbonisation required to keep global temperature
FTE (tonnes CO e/FTE)
increase below 2°C. 2
Scope 3 emissions/£bn Full data 0.6 0.64
Our overall value chain carbon footprint is made up of Scope 1 and 2 revenue (million tonnes available in
emissions from our own operations (14%) and Scope 3 emissions CO e/£bn revenue) next year’s
2
from our supplier base (48%), logistics (4%) and the use of our report
products (34%).
In 2018, Scope 1 and 2 emissions were reduced by 8% through
ongoing efficiency measures, investment in on-site generation of
renewable energy and a reduction in the number of sites. In India,
for example, we have saved over 24,700 tonnes of CO e emissions
2
over the past four years through investment in solar installations, a
combined heat and power plant, and more efficient lighting, heating
and manufacturing.
1 2018 figures will be available from April 2019.
2 Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol:
A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition).33
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
In 2018, the emissions from the use of our products have increased Environmental stewardship
by 4% since 2017, as we make medicines accessible to more We are committed to moving towards deforestation-free sourcing
people. Most of these emissions come from propellant gases used for all key commodities purchased directly by GSK or indirectly
in Ventolin metered dose inhalers (MDIs). Over the last few years on our behalf, although we recognise that this is a challenge due to
we have conducted detailed analysis to explore the requirements of the complex nature of our supply chains. To date, we have focused
developing a new propellant for MDIs with a lower carbon footprint. on paper packaging, palm oil and palm oil derivatives and have
Our findings show that this would be extremely complex, requiring developed supplier selection criteria, as well as sourcing standards
extensive R&D, significant changes to our manufacturing process in conjunction with the Rainforest Alliance.
and new clinical trials to test for efficacy and safety for patients.
The packaging of our products plays an important role in delivering
Weighing up these challenges, and given there are no incremental safe, stable and trusted medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare
benefits to patients, along with the need for us to allocate our capital products. However, GSK recognises the impact that plastic
investments to developing promising new medicines to improve packaging has on the environment. We have a number of initiatives
health, we have therefore decided to instead focus our investment in place to reduce plastic use, increase use of recycled plastic content
on our new generation dry powder inhaler technologies which do and encourage the recycling of plastic components. For example,
not release greenhouse gas emissions. Our entire new portfolio ensuring our packaging is no larger in volume, weight and thickness
of inhaled medicines is delivered via the dry powder Ellipta inhaler than it needs to be to fulfil its function of protecting the product.
which has a lifecycle carbon footprint around 24 times lower than
In 2018, we took steps to understand and quantify the amount
a propellant-based inhaler,1 based on an assessment that won
of plastic packaging that we produce globally across our business.
GSK the Carbon Trust’s Best in Product Carbon Footprinting
We are now using this information to evaluate how we can further
Award in 2018. In addition, we support efforts to promote low-
reduce the impact that our plastic use has on the environment.
carbon inhalers where possible, such as the commitment made
by the UK government, and to increase inhaler recycling for the GSK.com: Environmental policies
recovery and reuse of HFA gas.
Water
While climate change must be tackled at a global level, water
challenges are much more localised. We used 12.9 million cubic
metres of water across our operations in 2018 (compared with
14.7 in 2017) and we are focusing our reduction programmes
in the areas where we have the biggest overall water impact.
All our Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare manufacturing
sites have completed risk assessments to ensure compliance
with our water stewardship standard by 2020. Through these
assessments, we identified 13 high-risk sites, based on water
scarcity, local water quality, health and social risks, and regulatory
and reputational risks. These sites are now developing strategies
to reduce their water impact. Our goal is to reduce our total water
use at each high-risk site by 30% by 2030.
Waste
We have cut the amount of waste we produce by 7% since 2016,
generating a total of 126,000 tonnes in 2018 (including 36,000
tonnes of hazardous waste).
Further reductions in the amount of waste created – or complete
elimination of waste – is extremely challenging. Our new goal is
for all our waste to be repurposed for beneficial uses by 2030.
This avoids harmful environmental impacts from landfill and keeps
materials, such as solvents, in circulation for use in new products.
In 2018, 71% of our sites achieved zero waste to landfill. Globally,
77% of our waste was recycled or incinerated with energy recovery.
For example, more than 1.5 million used inhalers have been recycled
through our Complete the Cycle programme in the UK since it began
in 2012.
1 For one year’s treatment, use of propellant-based inhalers results in a carbon
footprint of 228kg COe compared with a carbon footprint of 9.6kg COe from
2 2
using Ellipta dry powder inhalers.34
GSK Annual Report 2018
Risk management
Our risk management framework is well embedded and continually Each Corporate Executive Team member performs a review of their
reviewed, with oversight at Board level through our Audit and Risk key Principal Risks to ensure controls are in place – and wherever
Committee, assisted by our Risk Oversight and Compliance Council. gaps are identified, clear plans are assigned to address them.
The framework enables the Board to identify, evaluate and manage
During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee considered GSK’s
our Principal Risks and is designed to support our long-term priorities.
risks and the strategies to address them. These reviews were
It provides our businesses with a framework for risk management and
undertaken through: annual business unit risk and assurance
upward escalation of significant risks. In conjunction with our values
update reports; strategy papers for each of our most significant
and expectations and Speak Up processes, it ensures that the risks
risks; and an annual risk review.
associated with our business activities are actively and effectively
agreed and mitigated and provides reasonable assurance against We have emphasised the importance of data privacy from an internal
material misstatement or loss. Each of our businesses is governed risk management perspective by separating Privacy as a new,
by a Risk Management and Compliance Board, which promotes stand-alone Enterprise Risk from the Information Security Enterprise
the ‘tone from the top’, establishes the culture regarding risk and Risk. Consequently, we now report on 11 Principal Risks, rather
oversees internal controls. Our annual confirmation exercise ensures than 10. The risks are listed below with our assessment of the
a consistent risk management approach across GSK which external macro environment and the risk exposure post mitigation.
reinforces leader accountability. They are not in order of significance.
Risk Assessment and mitigation activities
Patient safety – The macro risk level has increased on a global scale due to an expanding, strict and diverse
regulatory environment, which is going to evolve further, as exemplified in China. In general
Macro GSK exposure the macro environment in the established US and European markets remains unchanged with
environment post mitigation
patient safety and Good Pharmacovigilance Practices (GVP) remaining consistent. Plans are
in place to ensure that GSK’s approach to patient safety is not compromised by Brexit.
– The GSK risk exposure remains unchanged. We are providing strong oversight to mitigate
risk during implementation of organisational improvements to the local and central
pharmacovigilance model.
Product quality – The macro risk level remained unchanged, with continuing industry-level regulatory scrutiny
of data integrity, drug shortages caused by manufacturing issues, and the need for timely
Macro GSK exposure communication of issues with authorities.
environment post mitigation
– The overall GSK exposure level remains unchanged; however, improvements in annual
performance metrics reflect GSK’s ongoing investment and improvement initiatives in
facilities, operating systems and training.
Financial controls & reporting – The macro level remains unchanged, as there has been no material increase in financial
reporting requirements.
Macro GSK exposure
environment post mitigation – The GSK exposure level has reduced as a result of the successful completion of the US
and intercompany system migrations onto the new ERP platform.
Anti-bribery & corruption (ABAC) – The macro risk level remains unchanged with continued strict ABAC laws and scrutiny
from government and regulators, and the high standards expected of corporations.
Macro GSK exposure
environment post mitigation – The GSK exposure level remains unchanged as we improved targeted training to
those most exposed to bribery and corruption risks in their roles; revised and simplified
applicable written standards; and continued to develop risk indicators intended to provide
meaningful and useful data about the potential for corruption (e.g. financial crimes).
We have reduced our exposure to ABAC risk through a business model change in some
very high-risk markets and will continue to embed these changes into 2019. The SEC and
DOJ investigations regarding third party advisers engaged by GSK in China are ongoing.
Commercial practices – The macro risk level has increased due to greater competitive pressure, increased
regulatory enforcement and an expansion of digital engagement, where laws and
Macro GSK exposure regulations are still evolving.
environment post mitigation
– The GSK exposure level remains unchanged as we continue to enhance and maintain
control over evolving commercial practices, notably the shift in marketing and sales
practices utilising data analytics and e-commerce channels. In October 2018, GSK
announced changes to the way we will engage expert practitioners to improve sharing
of new data on our innovative medicines and vaccines for a limited time among healthcare
practitioners. New controls and training have been implemented to support these changes
while ensuring appropriate oversight and assurance across the markets.35
GSK Annual Report 2018
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
ARC Report, see page 79 Principal risks and uncertainties, see page 241
Viability statement, see page 44 Internal Control Framework, see page 87
Risk Assessment and mitigation activities
Privacy – The macro risk level has increased due to new, more stringent data privacy legislation
in multiple countries and the rise of enforcement by regulators.
Macro GSK exposure
environment post mitigation – The GSK exposure level remains unchanged following implementation of a new global
privacy framework and operating model in the European Economic Area during 2018.
This has resulted in the development of critical privacy expertise in compliance, legal,
and business roles, along with the embedding of privacy controls within IT and third
party oversight.
Research practices – The macro risk level is increasing, primarily driven by the high rate of change to regulations
and external ethical standards and by increasing data use and technological complexity.
Macro GSK exposure
environment post mitigation – The GSK exposure level remains unchanged as we continue to establish appropriate
controls and a culture of continuous improvement, overseen by an enterprise risk
governance structure.
Third party oversight (TPO) – The macro environment remains unchanged as the industry continues to be vigilant
about third-party risks in global sourcing and supply, and consumer and investor
Macro GSK exposure expectations mature.
environment post mitigation
– The GSK exposure level remains unchanged. The TPO programme has been fully
deployed. Due diligence for low-risk engagements is based on embedded process
controls, relieving Business Owners of TPO activity without a significant change in risk
appetite. High-risk engagements continue to require an engagement risk assessment
and prescribed next steps. The risk-based approach proposed means that some low-risk
issues may occur that will require a reactive response.
Environment, health & safety – The macro risk level has increased due to greater emphasis on environment controls
and sustainability (EHS&S) from regulators, activists and stakeholders. Particular focus areas include antimicrobial
resistance related to manufacturing releases, the wider issue of pharmaceuticals in the
Macro GSK exposure environment (PiE) and increasing emerging market regulation. External scrutiny of our
environment post mitigation external supply chain for active ingredients (both for existing and pipeline assets) has
also increased significantly.
– The GSK exposure level remains unchanged. Risks associated with restructuring
of the site network are being proactively managed. Mitigation and improvement plans
have been established and are progressing through implementation.
Information security – The macro risk level continues to increase as the threat against the pharmaceutical
business and industry generally become more sophisticated and targeted, as evidenced
Macro GSK exposure by the Wannacry and NotPetya global incidents.
environment post mitigation
– Despite this, the GSK exposure level remains unchanged due to further development
of our programme to safeguard against cyber-attacks and protect critical information
and systems, and our ability to balance the demands of regulation with our digital
transformation, which involves increased data collection and analysis.
Supply continuity – The macro risk level remains unchanged with ongoing stringent regulation, a continued
US focus on contract manufacturers outside the UK/EU, and Brexit uncertainties.
Macro GSK exposure
environment post mitigation – The overall GSK risk exposure level is unchanged. We have improved risk management
of our supplier portfolio; reduced the complexity of our internal and external networks;
and improved our crisis and continuity management framework. However, we have seen
an increase in complexity with the introduction of a major serialisation change programme
for the EU Falsified Medicines Directive coinciding with Brexit preparations.36
GSK Annual Report 2018
Risk management continued
Risks associated with the proposed separation of GSK’s
Consumer Healthcare business
A separation of our Consumer Healthcare business may be
dependent on a number of factors that are outside GSK’s control,
including any required shareholder and regulatory approvals,
favourable conditions in public equity markets and public or
private debt markets and changes in applicable law and regulation.
Therefore, there can be no certainty that a separation will be
completed as proposed (or at all). In addition, if a separation is
completed, there can be no assurance that either GSK or Consumer
Healthcare will realise the expected benefits of separation or that
the separation will not adversely affect GSK or Consumer Healthcare
or the value or liquidity of their respective shares.
Our approach to Brexit
In preparing for the UK’s exit from the EU (Brexit), our overriding Our Brexit plans prepare us for elements that are within our control.
priority has been to maintain continuity of supply of our medicines, We have significant experience of maintaining resilient supply chains,
vaccines and consumer healthcare products to people in the UK and we have used existing processes to develop a new supply
and EU. model based on the UK leaving the EU in March 2019. To minimise
disruption to patients, we have also adjusted stock levels in both
As a result, we have taken a risk-based approach to planning
the UK and EU. Uncertainty remains about the new operating
and mitigation, allocating costs of up to £70 million to implement
environment, and as a result we support efforts to secure a status
relevant changes over the next one to two years, while the future
quo operating period post-Brexit, and UK and EU preparations to
relationship between the UK and EU is negotiated. We have made
minimise potential disruption to the supply of medicines to patients.
good progress in implementing our Brexit contingency plan in 2018.
Our activity has included: arranging the retesting and certifying of We anticipate subsequent and ongoing costs arising from Brexit
our medicines in Europe; submitting marketing authorisation holder could include further customs duties and will include the cost
transfers; updating packaging; securing additional warehousing; of duplicate testing and release of our products. We continue to
and supporting employees in obtaining settled status or equivalent estimate these potential costs at approximately £50 million per year.
in both the UK and Europe. UK technical guidance, which outlines As more details emerge on how our business will need to change
acceptance of testing from EU sites for a time-limited period, has after Brexit, the assumptions underlying these forecasts could
allowed us to reduce some potential duplication in our supply chain change, with consequent adjustments up or down. We will
in the short term. continue to revise our plans and their expected financial impact
as negotiations and regulations develop. Over the longer term,
we continue to believe that Brexit will not have a material impact
on our business.3377
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001188 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group
financial
review
In this section
CFO’s statement 38
Reporting framework 40
Approach to tax 43
Viability statement 44
Total results 45
Adjusting items 51
Adjusted results 54
Cash generation and conversion 56
Financial position and resources 58
Treasury policies 62
Critical accounting policies 6338
GSK Annual Report 2018
CFO’s statement
“We continued to make progress in delivering against our strategy
and the financial goals we have set out in our financial architecture”
I am pleased to report that the Group’s results for 2018 demonstrate Operating profit
continued operational execution of our key strategic objectives with
strong performances from all three businesses. Total operating profit was £5,483 million, up 34% AER, 43% CER,
and showed strong progression on 2017. Higher charges for
Sales the re-measurement of the contingent consideration liability related
to ViiV Healthcare were more than offset by a stronger operating
Group turnover was up 2% AER, 5% CER to £30,821 million.
performance, lower restructuring costs, lower asset impairment
Pharmaceuticals sales were flat at AER but up 2% CER, driven
charges and a favourable comparison with the charges taken in
primarily by growth in HIV sales and further progress by the new
2017 related to US tax reform of £0.7 billion.
Respiratory products, Nucala and the Ellipta portfolio. This was
partly offset by lower sales of Seretide/Advair and Established Adjusted operating profit was £8,745 million, up 2% AER, 6% CER,
Pharmaceuticals. Overall Respiratory sales declined 1% AER driven by margin growth in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
but grew 1% CER. Pharmaceuticals operating profit was down 3% AER, but flat at
CER, reflecting continued investment in our new products and
Vaccines sales were up 14% AER, 16% CER, primarily driven by
a weaker gross margin in the face of ongoing pricing pressures.
sales of Shingrix in the US and growth in influenza and Hepatitis
vaccines, which also benefited from a competitor supply shortage, Earnings per share
partly offset by declines in some Established Vaccines.
Our stronger operational performance helped to deliver improved
Consumer Healthcare sales declined 1% AER but grew 2% CER
earnings per share (EPS) for the Group. Total EPS more than
with broad-based growth in Oral health and Wellness partly offset
doubled to 73.7 pence. Adjusted EPS was 119.4 pence up 7% AER,
by increased competitive pressures in Europe, the divestments of
and up 12% CER.
some smaller brands, including Horlicks and MaxiNutrition in the UK,
as well as the impact of the implementation of the Goods & Services Total EPS also benefited from a favourable comparison with
Tax (GST) in India. charges in 2017 arising from the impact of US tax reform and
a lower non-controlling interest allocation of Consumer Healthcare
Cost of sales profits following the acquisition of Novartis’ interest in our Consumer
Healthcare business in June 2018.
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 33.2%, down
1.0 percentage points AER and 1.4 percentage points CER. This These factors were partly offset by higher transaction-related
primarily reflected a favourable comparison with the write-downs charges arising from increases in the valuation of the liabilities for
of assets in 2017 related to the decision to withdraw Tanzeum, contingent consideration, put options and preferential dividends.
together with a more favourable product mix in Vaccines and The Adjusted EPS growth of 12% CER was well ahead of the 6%
Consumer Healthcare, partly offset by adverse pricing pressure CER increase in Adjusted operating profit, primarily as a result of the
in Pharmaceuticals, particularly in Respiratory, and in Established reduced non-controlling interest allocation of Consumer Healthcare
Vaccines. profits and a lower Adjusted tax rate.
Selling, general and administration Cash generation
SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 32.2%, up We have continued to drive a strong focus on greater cash discipline
0.1 percentage points at both AER and CER, reflecting growth across the Group and I am pleased to report we made significant
of 3% AER, 5% CER. The increase primarily reflected higher further progress this year, resulting in a net cash inflow from
restructuring costs and investment in promotional product support, operations of £8,421 million (2017 – £6,918 million) and free
particularly for new launches in Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines. cash flow of £5,692 million (2017 – £3,485 million). This increase
was particularly driven by progress on working capital, despite the
Research and development
growth in the business, especially in inventory control and stronger
R&D expenditure was lower in 2018 compared with 2017 at collections. Reductions in capital expenditure, lower legal costs
£3,893 million on a Total basis and £3,735 million on an Adjusted and higher proceeds from intangible divestments also contributed.
basis. This reflected a favourable comparison with the impact of Cash conversion remains a key focus for 2019.
the Priority Review Voucher, purchased and used to accelerate Net debt was £21.6 billion at 31 December 2018, compared
registration of our first HIV two-drug regimen (dolutegravir and with £13.2 billion at 31 December 2017, comprising gross debt
lamivudine) in 2017, as well as benefits from recent R&D of £26.1 billion and cash and liquid investments of £4.5 billion,
prioritisation initiatives. including £0.5 billion reported within Assets held for sale.
Savings from these initiatives are being used to build investments The increase in net debt from last year was primarily driven
in a number of mid and late-stage clinical development programmes, by our decision to buy-in the minority stake held by Novartis
particularly in oncology and functional genomics. in our Consumer Healthcare business for £9.3 billion and an
adverse currency translation impact of £0.8 billion.39
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Capital allocation Viability statement
We have pursued a disciplined approach to capital allocation, Our viability statement sets out our assessment of the prospects
reflected in the investment choices we made in 2018 and in the of the Group over the next three years and is presented on page 44.
transactions we initiated to strengthen our business and improve
Outlook
our financial flexibility to support GSK’s key strategic priorities.
This culminated in the agreement announced in December last year
In 2019, we expect Adjusted EPS to decline in the range of -5
to establish a new world-leading Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
to -9% at CER. This guidance reflects the expected impact of the
that we intend to separate from the Group within three years of
Tesaro acquisition and the significant investments we are making
the transaction closing. This will give us a unique value creating
behind its products and pipeline. It also reflects the completion of
opportunity to establish two leading global companies, each with
the other recently announced transactions, as well as the approval
appropriate balance sheets better able to support their respective
of a substitutable generic competitor to Advair in the US.
future investment requirements, while continuing to offer
shareholders attractive distributions. 2018 was a strong year of operational performance, with good
progress made in commercial delivery of our new products, which
Given the improvements in cash conversion and free cash flow
together with continued focus on costs, has led to improved
generation across the Group over the last few years, we remain
operating margins. The business is showing good momentum and,
comfortable that we can support our future investment requirements.
together with the important strategic moves we have made through
However, this new pathway for the Group gives us additional
the different transactions initiated in 2018, I am confident in the
confidence and visibility in our ability to invest behind our first
outlook and prospects for GSK.
priority – strengthening the R&D pipeline.
Finally, this is my last report to shareholders as CFO, and I would like
Delivering cash returns to shareholders through dividends is also
to thank them and our many partners for their support in my time with
a priority. Dividends paid to shareholders in 2018 were £3.9 billion
the company.
and we have delivered on the expectations we laid out, with a
dividend of 80p per share for the year. We expect to maintain
the dividend at the same level of 80p for 2019.
Simon Dingemans
Chief Financial Officer
Capital allocation framework
Key priorities for capital
– Pharmaceuticals pipeline
Invest in the business
– Vaccines capacity
Innovation
Improved
– 80p per share dividend expected for 2019
cash Shareholder returns
Performance – Focus on rebuilding free cash flow over time
generation
– Target 1.25x to 1.5x cover before returning
dividend to growth
Trust
– Strict discipline on returns
Other transactions M&A40
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review
Reporting framework
Total and Adjusted results Costs for all other ordinary course smaller scale restructuring and
legal charges and expenses are retained within both Total and
The Group financial review discusses the operating and financial Adjusted results.
performance of the Group, its cash flows and financial position and
As Adjusted results include the benefits of Major restructuring
our resources. The results for each year are compared primarily with
programmes but exclude significant costs (such as significant
the results of the preceding year.
legal, major restructuring and transaction items), they should not be
Total results regarded as a complete picture of the Group’s financial performance,
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall performance. which is presented in its Total results. The exclusion of other
Adjusting items may result in Adjusted earnings being materially
GSK also uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report
higher or lower than Total earnings. In particular, when significant
the performance of its business. Adjusted results and other non-
impairments, restructuring charges and legal costs are excluded,
IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a
Adjusted earnings will be higher than Total earnings.
substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance
with IFRS. Adjusted results are defined below and other non-IFRS GSK has undertaken a number of Major restructuring programmes
measures are defined on page 42. in recent years in response to significant changes in the Group’s
trading environment or overall strategy, or following material
GSK believes that Adjusted results, when considered together with
acquisitions, including the Novartis transaction in 2015. Costs,
Total results, provide investors, analysts and other stakeholders with
both cash and non-cash, of these programmes are provided for
helpful complementary information to understand better the financial
as individual elements are approved and meet the accounting
performance and position of the Group from period to period, and
recognition criteria. As a result, charges may be incurred over a
allow the Group’s performance to be more easily compared against
number of years following the initiation of a Major restructuring
the majority of its peer companies. These measures are also used by
programme.
management for planning and reporting purposes. They may not be
directly comparable with similarly described measures used by other From time to time, the Group divests non-core investments, products
companies. and businesses and records the profit or loss on disposal as an
Adjusting item. The most notable divestment in the past five years
GSK encourages investors and analysts not to rely on any single
was the disposal of the Oncology business as one element of the
financial measure but to review GSK’s Annual Reports, including
three-part transaction with Novartis in 2015.
the financial statements and notes, in their entirety.
Significant legal charges and expenses are those arising from the
GSK is committed to continuously improving its financial reporting,
settlement of litigation or government investigations that are not in
in line with evolving regulatory requirements and best practice and
the normal course and materially larger than more regularly occurring
has made a number of changes in recent years. In line with this
individual matters. They also include certain major legacy matters.
practice, GSK expects in 2019 to continue to review its reporting
framework (including, where relevant, the use of alternative Reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results, providing further
performance measures). information on the key Adjusting items for 2017 and 2018 are set out
on page 51 and for the five years to 2018 are set out on pages 232
Adjusted results to 234.
Adjusted results exclude the following items from Total results,
GSK provides earnings guidance to the investor community on
together with the tax effects of all of these items:
the basis of Adjusted results. This is in line with peer companies
– amortisation of intangible assets (excluding computer software) and expectations of the investor community, supporting easier
and goodwill comparison of the Group’s performance with its peers. GSK is not
– impairment of intangible assets (excluding computer software) able to give guidance for Total results as it cannot reliably forecast
and goodwill certain material elements of the Total results, particularly the future
fair value movements on contingent consideration and put options
– major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible
that can and have given rise to significant adjustments driven by
assets and computer software, (under specific Board approved
external factors such as currency and other movements in capital
programmes that are structural, of a significant scale and where
markets.
the costs of individual or related projects exceed £25 million),
including integration costs following material acquisitions
– transaction-related accounting or other adjustments related to
significant acquisitions
– proceeds and costs of disposals of associates, products and
businesses; significant legal charges (net of insurance recoveries)
and expenses on the settlement of litigation and government
investigations; other operating income other than royalty income,
and other items
– the impact of the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
in 2017.41
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Reporting framework continued
Historical record of Adjusting items
The reconcilations between Total and Adjusted operating profit over the last five years can be summarised as follows:
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m £m
Total operating profit 5,483 4,087 2,598 10,322 3,597
Intangible asset amortisation 580 591 588 563 575
Intangible asset impairment 116 688 20 206 150
Major restructuring 809 1,056 970 1,891 750
Transaction-related items 1,977 1,599 3,919 2,238 839
Divestments, significant legal and other items (220) (119) (424) (9,561) 545
US tax reform – 666 – – –
Adjusted operating profit 8,745 8,568 7,671 5,659 6,456
The analysis of the impact of transaction-related items on operating profit for each of the last five years is as follows:
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m £m £m
Novartis Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option 658 986 1,133 83 –
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare JV (including Shionogi preferential dividends) 1,188 556 2,162 1,874 768
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential dividends (58) (126) 577 – –
Contingent consideration on former Novartis Vaccines business 58 101 69 108 –
Other adjustments 131 82 (22) 173 71
Transaction-related items 1,977 1,599 3,919 2,238 839
Full reconciliations between Total and Adjusted results for 2014–2018 are set out on pages 232 to 234.
Further explanations on the Adjusting items for 2018 are reported on page 51.
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare Acquisition-related arrangements
As consideration for the acquisition of Shionogi’s interest in the
Trading profit allocations former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, Shionogi
Because ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% of received the 10% equity stake in ViiV Healthcare and ViiV Healthcare
its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after tax) are also agreed to pay additional future cash consideration to Shionogi,
included within the Group income statement and then a portion contingent on the future sales performance of the products being
of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling interests owned developed by that joint venture, principally dolutegravir. Under
by the other shareholders, in line with their respective equity IFRS 3 ‘Business combinations’, GSK was required to provide for
shareholdings (Pfizer 11.7% and Shionogi 10%). Each of the the estimated fair value of this contingent consideration at the time
shareholders, including GSK, is also entitled to preferential dividends of acquisition and is required to update the liability to the latest
determined by the performance of certain products that each estimate of fair value at each subsequent period end. The liability for
shareholder contributed. As the relative performance of these the contingent consideration recognised in the balance sheet at the
products changes over time, the proportion of the overall earnings date of acquisition was £659 million. Subsequent re-measurements
of ViiV Healthcare allocated to each shareholder will change. In are reflected within other operating income/expense and within
particular, the increasing sales of dolutegravir-containing products Adjusting items in the income statement in each period, and at
have a favourable impact on the proportion of the preferential 31 December 2018, the liability, which is discounted at 8.5%,
dividends that is allocated to GSK. Adjusting items are allocated to stood at £5,937 million, on a post-tax basis.
shareholders based on their equity interests. GSK was entitled to
Cash payments to settle the contingent consideration are made
approximately 85% of the Total earnings and 82% of the Adjusted
to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each quarter, based on the actual
earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2018. Re-measurements of the
sales performance of the relevant products in the previous quarter.
liabilities for the preferential dividends allocated to Pfizer and
These payments reduce the balance sheet liability and hence are
Shionogi are included within other operating income.
not recorded in the income statement. The cash payments made
to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare in 2018 were £793 million.
Because the liability is required to be recorded at the fair value of
estimated future payments, there is a significant timing difference
between the charges that are recorded in the Total income statement
to reflect movements in the fair value of the liability and the actual
cash payments made to settle the liability.42
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Reporting framework continued
The cash payments are reflected in the cash flow statement partly However, during Q1 2016, GSK notified Shionogi that it had
in operating cash flows and partly within investing activities. The tax irrevocably given up this right and accordingly recognised the liability
relief on these payments is reflected in the Group’s Adjusting items for the put option on the Group’s balance sheet during Q1 2016 at
as part of the tax charge. The part of each payment relating to the an initial value of £926 million. In Q4 2016, Shionogi irrevocably
original estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration on agreed to waive its put option and as a result GSK de-recognised
the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 the liability for this put option on the Group’s balance sheet directly
of £659 million is reported within investing activities in the cash flow to equity. The value of the liability was £1,244 million when it was
statement and the part of each payment relating to the increase in the de-recognised.
liability since the acquisition is reported within operating cash flows.
GSK also has a call option over Shionogi’s shareholding in ViiV
Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi were
Healthcare, which under the original agreements was exercisable in
as follows:
six month windows commencing in 2027, 2030 and 2032. GSK has
2018 2017 now irrevocably agreed to waive the first two exercise windows, but
£m £m
the last six month window in 2032 remains. As this call option is at
Contingent consideration at beginning of the year 5,542 5,304
fair value, it has no value for accounting purposes.
Re-measurement through income statement 1,188 909
Cash payments: operating cash flows (703) (587) Free cash flow
Cash payments: investing activities (90) (84)
With the introduction of the new R&D strategy in 2018, GSK has
Contingent consideration at end of the year 5,937 5,542 revised its definition of free cash flow, a non-IFRS measure, to
include proceeds from the sale of intangible assets. This balances
Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis) to
with the expenditure on purchases of intangible assets, which is
Shionogi at 31 December 2018, £815 million (31 December
deducted in calculating free cash flow, and makes the treatment
2017 – £724 million) is expected to be paid within one year.
of intangible assets consistent with property, plant and equipment.
Exit rights Free cash flow is now defined as the net cash inflow from operating
Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if activities less capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment
either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not and intangible assets, contingent consideration payments, net
completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to acquire interest, and dividends paid to non-controlling interests plus
its shareholding. Under the original agreements, GSK had the proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and
unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent distribution to intangible assets, and dividends received from joint ventures and
its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the exercise of the Pfizer associates. It is used by management for planning and reporting
put option and, as a result, in accordance with IFRS, GSK did not purposes and in discussions with and presentations to investment
recognise a liability for the put option on its balance sheet. However, analysts and rating agencies. Free cash flow growth is calculated on
during Q1 2016, GSK notified Pfizer that it had irrevocably given up a reported basis. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operations
this right and accordingly recognised the liability for the put option to free cash flow is set out on page 56.
on the Group’s balance sheet during Q1 2016 at an initial value of
Free cash flow conversion
£1,070 million. Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of
Q1 2016 GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential Free cash flow conversion is free cash flow as a percentage of
dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi on earnings.
the Group’s balance sheet.
Working capital conversion cycle
The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizer’s shareholding
are as follows:
The working capital conversion cycle is calculated as the number of
days sales outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, less days
2018 2017
£m £m purchases outstanding.
Pfizer put option 1,240 1,304
CER and AER growth
Pfizer preferential dividend 15 17
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s practice
Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have requested to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER)
GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare in six month growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates
windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022. GSK had the used to determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had
unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent distribution remained unchanged from those used in the comparative period.
to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the exercise of the CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% or AER%
Shionogi put option and, as a result, GSK did not recognise a represents growth at actual exchange rates.
liability for the put option on its balance sheet.43
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our approach to tax
We understand our responsibility to pay an appropriate amount The Group’s Total tax rate of 15.7% (2017 – 38.5%) for 2018 was
of tax, and fully support efforts to ensure that companies are lower than the Adjusted tax rate as the Total tax charge includes the
appropriately transparent about how their tax affairs are managed. effect of a reduced estimate of the 2017 impact of US tax reform,
Tax is an important element of the economic contribution we bring to following additional guidance being released by the IRS, and a
the countries in which we operate. We do not engage in artificial tax re-assessment of estimates of uncertain tax positions following the
arrangements – those without business or commercial substance. settlement of a number of open issues with tax authorities.
We do not seek to avoid tax by the use of ‘tax havens’ or transactions
In 2018, there has been an ongoing public focus on the tax affairs of
we would not fully disclose to a tax authority. We have a zero
multinational companies as well as the continued focus on tax reform.
tolerance approach to tax evasion and the facilitation of tax evasion.
This has been driven by the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting
We have a substantial business and employment presence in (BEPS) project and European Commission initiatives such as fiscal
many countries around the globe and we pay a significant amount state aid investigations. The outputs from the OECD BEPS projects
of tax, including corporation and other business taxes, as well as clarified the important principle that tax should be paid on profits
tax associated with our employees. At the same time, we have a throughout the supply chain, where the profit-making activity takes
responsibility to our shareholders to be financially efficient and place. GSK is subject to taxation throughout its supply chain.
deliver a sustainable tax rate. As part of this approach we look to
GSK supports the BEPS proposals, in particular the implementation
align our investment strategies to those countries where we already
of the OECD’s recommendations on ‘Country by Country Reporting’,
have substantial economic activity, and where government policies
including the exchange of this data between tax authorities. This
promote regimes which are attractive to business investment and
data, validated against existing information held on taxpayers, will
R&D activity, and are transparent in their intent and available to all
support their ability to ensure that multinational groups pay an
relevant tax payers. Examples include the UK Patent Box and
appropriate amount of tax.
Research and Development Expenditure Credit.
The detailed tax implications of Brexit are dependent on the outcome
Tax risk is managed through robust internal policies and processes to
of negotiations between the UK and EU, and are therefore currently
ensure that we have alignment across our business and compliance
unknown. However, we continue to work closely with the ABPI and
with tax legislation. Our Audit & Risk Committee and the Board are
BIA to analyse the potential implications for the industry in order to
responsible for approving our tax policies and risk management
highlight key focus areas for the Government as part of its Brexit
approach.
negotiations. The direct tax implications, in particular, are expected
We seek to maintain open, positive relationships with governments to be limited for GSK while the indirect tax implications may be more
and tax authorities worldwide and we welcome constructive debate significant, including potential customs duty costs and additional
on taxation policy. transaction or administrative costs associated with managing import
and export obligations on the movement of goods between the UK
In 2018, the Group corporate tax charge was £754 million
and the EU. Our approach to Brexit is set out on page 36.
(2017 – £1,356 million) on profits before tax of £4,800 million
(2017 – £3,525 million) representing an effective tax rate of 15.7% Our Tax Strategy is set out in detail within the Public Policy positions
(2017 – 38.5%). We made cash tax payments of £1,326 million in section of our website. Further details about our corporate tax
the year (2017 – £1,340 million). In addition to the taxes we pay on charges for the year are set out on page 161.
our profits, we pay duties, levies, transactional and employment
taxes.
Our Adjusted tax rate for 2018 was 19.0% (2017 – 21.0%). Subject
to any material changes in our product mix, or other material changes
in tax regulations or laws in the countries in which we operate, and
reflecting the ongoing impact of US tax reform, the Group’s effective
Adjusted tax rate for 2019 and the next several years is expected to
be around 19%.44
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code,
GSK has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been
period than the 12 months required by the ‘Going Concern’ evaluated:
provision. The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable
– Scenario 1: Business performance risks. These include key
expectation that GSK will continue to operate and meets its liabilities,
performance risks, including lower sales from new products;
as they fall due, over the next three years. The Directors’ assessment
greater adverse impact from generic competition and other
has been made with reference to GSK’s current position and
competitive launches to other GSK products; as well as
prospects, our strategy, the Board’s risk appetite and GSK’s
possible supply and manufacturing challenges.
principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed on pages
34 and 35 in the Strategic report. This assessment has been made – Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks. This scenario
assuming no separation of the new Consumer Healthcare Joint reflects incremental risks to the business driven by outside
Venture during the three-year period under consideration. factors, such as more intense competition, increased pricing
pressure in both the US and Europe as well as the potential
The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management
impact of material negative changes in the macro-economic
policies and approves our governance structure and code of
and healthcare environment.
conduct. It also appraises and approves major financing, investment
and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance – Scenario 3: Principal risks. This scenario includes a severe
and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus is largely on improving assessment of the potential loss impact from the principal risks
our long-term financial performance through delivery of our company related to patient safety, product quality, supply chain continuity
and three business strategies and aligned Innovation, Performance as well as anti-bribery and corruption and any consequent
and Trust priorities. regulatory actions or fines, all of which could fundamentally
threaten our operations. These risks are managed through
The Board reviews GSK’s strategy and makes significant capital
mitigating activities described on pages 241 to 250.
investment decisions over a long-term time horizon, based on a
multi-year assessment of return on capital, the performance of the – Scenario 4: Put option exercise. This scenario evaluates the
company and three business units, and the market opportunity in additional funding requirements assuming the earliest potential
the pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer sectors. This approach exercise of the outstanding put option held by our partner in the
is aligned to GSK’s model of achieving balanced growth by investing HIV business.
in high quality, innovative products for patients, consumers and
healthcare providers. However, since many internal and external
parameters become increasingly unpredictable over longer time The three-year review also makes certain assumptions about the
horizons, GSK focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan on a three-year normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers whether
cycle. The Plan is reviewed at least annually by the Directors, who additional financing facilities will be required and the respective level
approve business forecasts showing expected financial impact. The of funding flexibility and headroom.
Directors believe that a three-year assessment period for the Viability The results of this stress testing show that certain combinations of
statement is most appropriate as it aligns with the Company’s well these hypothetical scenarios could increase funding demands on
established business planning processes that balance the long-term GSK and require mitigating changes to the Group’s funding strategy.
nature of investments in the pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer However, in light of the liquidity available to the Group and based on
sectors with an assessment of the period over which analysis of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that, even
near-term business performance is realistically visible. under these most severe stress tests, the Company will be able to
The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the
and principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Board’s review three-year period of assessment.
on risk. These include the potential effects of Brexit, which are not
expected to be material, although there may be some short-term
disruption. The downside scenarios consider GSK’s cash flows,
sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance provision
and recovery as well as other key financial ratios over the period.
These metrics have been subject to sensitivity analysis, which
involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying the
forecasts both individually and in combination, along with mitigating
actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact
or occurrence of the underlying risk.45
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Total results
Turnover (£bn) Group turnover
£30.8bn AER growth CER growth
2% 5% 2018 2017 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Pharmaceuticals 17,269 17,276 – 2
Vaccines 5,894 5,160 14 16
2016 27.9 Consumer Healthcare 7,658 7,750 (1) 2
Group turnover 30,821 30,186 2 5
2017 30.2
Group turnover was up 2% AER, 5% CER to £30,821 million.
2018 30.8 Pharmaceuticals sales were flat at AER but up 2% CER, driven
primarily by the growth in HIV sales and the new Respiratory
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
products, Nucala and the Ellipta portfolio. This was partly offset by
lower sales of Seretide/Advair and Established Pharmaceuticals.
Total operating profit (£bn) Overall Respiratory sales declined 1% AER but grew 1% CER.
£5.5bn AER growth CER growth Vaccines sales were up 14% AER, 16% CER, primarily driven by
34% 43% sales of Shingrix in the US and growth in influenza and Hepatitis
vaccines, which also benefited from a competitor supply shortage,
partly offset by declines in some Established Vaccines.
Consumer Healthcare sales declined 1% AER but grew 2% CER
2016 2.6 with broad-based growth in Oral health and Wellness partly offset by
increased competitive pressures in Europe, the divestments of some
2017 4.1
smaller brands, including Horlicks and MaxiNutrition in the UK, as
well as the impact of the implementation of the GST in India.
2018 5.5
Group turnover by geographic region
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
2018 2017 Growth Growth
The total results of the Group are set out below. £m £m £% CER%
US 11,982 11,263 6 9
2018 2017 Growth Europe 7,973 7,943 – (1)
% of % of International 10,866 10,980 (1) 4
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
30,821 30,186 2 5
Turnover 30,821 100 30,186 100 2 5
Cost of sales (10,241) (33.2) (10,342) (34.3) (1) – US sales grew 6% AER, 9% CER, driven by the growth of Shingrix
Selling, general and and Hepatitis vaccines as well as strong performances from HIV and
administration (9,915) (32.2) (9,672) (32.0) 3 5 Benlysta, offset by declines in Established Pharmaceuticals and
Research and Respiratory.
development (3,893) (12.6) (4,476) (14.8) (13) (12)
Royalty income 299 1.0 356 1.1 (16) (17) Europe sales were flat at AER, but declined 1% CER, as declines
Other operating in Established Pharmaceuticals, older HIV products, Meningitis
income/(expense) (1,588) (5.2) (1,965) (6.5) vaccines and Consumer Healthcare more than offset growth from
Operating profit 5,483 17.8 4,087 13.5 34 43 Tivicay and Triumeq and the new Respiratory products.
Net finance costs (717) (669) In International, sales declined 1% AER, but grew 4% CER,
Profit on disposal of reflecting strong growth in Tivicay, Triumeq and the Respiratory
interest in associates 3 94 portfolio. Sales in Emerging Markets declined 2% AER, but grew
Share of after tax 4% CER.
profits of associates
and joint ventures 31 13
Profit before taxation 4,800 3,525 36 46
Taxation (754) (1,356)
Profit after taxation
for the year 4,046 2,169 87 100
Profit attributable to
shareholders 3,623 1,532
Earnings per share (p) 73.7 31.4 >100 >100
Earnings per ADS
(US$) 1.96 0.8246
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Total results continued
Pharmaceuticals Relvar/Breo Ellipta sales grew 8% AER, 10% CER, to £1,089
million, primarily driven by growth in Europe, which was up 25%
AER, 24% CER to £253 million, and in International, which was up
Turnover (£bn) 26% AER, 31% CER to £255 million. In the US, Breo Ellipta sales
declined 3% AER, 1% CER, with volume growth of 27%, reflecting
£17.3bn
continued market share growth, offset by the combined impact of
AER growth CER growth
prior period payer rebate adjustments and increased competitive
0% 2%
56% of Group turnover pricing pressure. Anoro Ellipta sales grew 39% AER, 42% CER to
£476 million, driven primarily by share gains in the US. All of our
Ellipta products, Breo, Anoro, Incruse, Arnuity and Trelegy, continued
to grow market share in the US during the year.
2016 16.1
Sales of New Respiratory products, comprising Ellipta products and
2017 17.3 Nucala, grew 35% AER, 38% CER to £2,612 million.
Seretide/Advair sales declined 23% AER, 21% CER to £2,422
2018 17.3
million. Sales of Advair in the US declined 32% AER, 30% CER (9%
0 5 10 15 20 volume decline and 21% negative impact of price) primarily reflecting
increased competitive pricing pressures. In Europe, Seretide sales
Pharmaceuticals turnover were down 19% AER, 20% CER to £599 million (13% volume
decline and a 7% price decline). This reflected continued competition
2018 2017 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% from generic products and the transition of the Respiratory portfolio
Respiratory 6,928 6,991 (1) 1 to newer products. In International, sales of Seretide were down 7%
AER, 4% CER, to £726 million (5% volume decline and 1% positive
HIV 4,722 4,350 9 11
impact of price), with declines in markets with generic competition
Immuno-inflammation 472 377 25 28
partly offset by growth from other developing markets.
Established Pharmaceuticals 5,147 5,558 (7) (4)
17,269 17,276 – 2 HIV
HIV sales increased 9% AER, 11% CER to £4,722 million in the
Pharmaceuticals turnover in the year was £17,269 million, flat at AER,
year, with the US up 8% AER, 10% CER, Europe up 7% AER,
but up 2% CER, driven primarily by the growth in HIV sales, which
6% CER and International up 14% AER, 20% CER.
were up 9% AER, 11% CER, to £4,722 million, reflecting share
growth over the year in the dolutegravir portfolio: Triumeq, Tivicay The growth was driven by the increase in market share over the
and Juluca. Respiratory sales declined 1% AER, but grew 1% CER, year in our dolutegravir products which grew 14% AER, 16% CER.
to £6,928 million, with growth from our Ellipta portfolio and Nucala This was partly offset by the decline in our established portfolio,
partly offset by lower sales of Seretide/Advair. Sales of Established particularly the impact of generic competition to Epzicom/Kivexa in
Pharmaceuticals were down 7% AER, 4% CER. Europe. Triumeq, Tivicay and Juluca (which was approved in the US
in November 2017), recorded sales of £2,648 million, £1,639 million
In the US, sales declined 2% AER but grew 1% at CER, with growth
and £133 million, respectively, in the year. Epzicom/Kivexa sales
in the HIV portfolio and Benlysta offsetting declines in Established
declined 50% AER, 48% CER to £117 million.
Pharmaceuticals and Respiratory. In Europe, sales grew 2% AER,
1% CER, with growth in the Respiratory portfolio offsetting the Immuno-inflammation
continued impact of generic competition to Epzicom and Avodart. Sales in the year were up 25% AER, 28% CER, primarily driven by
International was flat at AER but grew 5% CER, with growth driven Benlysta, which grew 26% AER, 29% CER to £473 million. In the
by HIV and the new Respiratory portfolio. US, Benlysta grew 24% AER, 27% CER to £420 million, benefiting
from the launch of the sub-cutaneous formulation in the third quarter.
Respiratory
Total Respiratory sales declined 1% AER, but grew 1% CER, with Established Pharmaceuticals
the US down 5% AER, 3% CER. In Europe, sales grew 5% AER, Sales of Established Pharmaceuticals were £5,147 million, down
4% CER and International grew 3% AER, 7% CER. Growth from 7% AER, 4% CER, reflecting our efforts to maximise the value from
our Ellipta portfolio and Nucala was partly offset by lower sales of this portfolio but also the benefit of certain post-divestment contract
Seretide/Advair. manufacturing sales and the first instalment of a 12-month Relenza
Sales of Nucala were £563 million in the year, up 64% AER, 66% supply contract in Europe.
CER, continuing to benefit from the global rollout of the product. US The Avodart franchise was down 7% AER, 5% CER to £572 million,
sales of Nucala grew 44% AER, 48% CER to £341 million, despite primarily due to the loss of exclusivity in Europe, with the US impact
increased competition, benefiting from continued market expansion. now broadly annualised. Coreg franchise sales declined 63% AER,
Sales of Ellipta products were up 29% AER, 32% CER, driven by 63% CER following a generic Coreg CR entrant to the US market in
Q4 2017. Lamictal sales declined 5% AER, 3% CER to £617 million.
continued growth in all regions. In the US, sales grew 24% AER,
27% CER, reflecting further market share gains, partly offset by the
impact of continued competitive pricing pressures, particularly for
ICS/LABAs. In Europe, sales grew 42% AER, 41% CER. Sales of
Trelegy Ellipta, our new once-daily closed triple product, contributed
£156 million to total Ellipta sales, benefiting from an expanded label
in the US.47
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Total results continued
Vaccines Influenza
Fluarix/FluLaval sales grew 7% AER, 10% CER to £523 million,
driven by strong sales execution in the US and improved sales in
AER growth CER growth
Turnover (£bn) Europe, partly offset by increased price competition in the US.
14% 16%
£5.9bn Shingles
Shingrix recorded sales of £784 million, primarily in the US and
Canada, driven by demand and share gains. US sales benefited
19% of Group turnover
from market growth in new patient populations now covered by
immunisation recommendations, and Shingrix has now achieved
a 98% market share.
2016 4.6
Established Vaccines
2017 5.2 Sales of our DTPa-containing vaccines (Infanrix, Pediarix and
Boostrix) were down 8% AER, 7% CER. Infanrix, Pediarix sales
2018 5.9 were down 8% AER, 7% CER to £680 million, reflecting increased
competitive pressures in Europe as well as unfavourable year-on-year
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
CDC stockpile movements in the US, partly offset by stronger
demand in International. Boostrix sales declined 8% AER, 7% CER
Vaccines turnover
to £517 million, primarily driven by the return to the market of a
2018 2017 Growth Growth competitor in Europe and lower demand in International.
£m £m £% CER%
Hepatitis vaccines grew 17% AER, 19% CER to £808 million,
Meningitis 881 890 (1) 2
benefiting from stronger demand in the US and Europe as well as
Influenza 523 488 7 10
a competitor supply shortage in the US.
Shingles 784 22 >100 >100
Rotarix sales were down 1% AER but up 1% CER to £521 million,
Established Vaccines 3,706 3,760 (1) –
reflecting higher demand in Europe, partly offset by lower demand
5,894 5,160 14 16
in International.
Vaccines turnover grew 14% AER, 16% CER to £5,894 million,
Synflorix sales declined 17% AER, 17% CER to £424 million,
primarily driven by growth in sales of Shingrix, Hepatitis vaccines,
primarily impacted by lower pricing and demand in Emerging
which also benefited from a competitor supply shortage and higher
Markets.
sales of influenza products. This was partly offset by lower sales of
DTPa-containing vaccines (Infanrix, Pediarix and Boostrix) due to
increased competitive pressures, particularly in Europe, and
unfavourable year-on-year CDC stockpile movements in the US,
together with lower Synflorix sales, reflecting lower pricing and
demand in Emerging Markets.
Meningitis
Meningitis sales were down 1% AER but up 2% CER to £881
million. Bexsero sales grew 5% AER, 9% CER driven by demand
and share gains in the US, together with continued growth in
private market sales in International, partly offset by the completion
of vaccination of catch-up cohorts in certain markets in Europe.
Menveo sales declined 15% AER, 12% CER, primarily reflecting
supply constraints in Europe and International as well as a strong
comparator in 2017 and unfavourable year-on-year CDC stockpile
movements in the US, partly offset by demand and share gains in
the US.48
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Total results continued
Consumer Healthcare Wellness
Wellness sales declined 2% AER but grew 1% CER to £3,940
million. Respiratory sales grew in low single digits, led by Theraflu
Turnover (£bn) supported by a strong cold and flu season earlier in the year as well
as the Theraflu PowerPods launch in the US in the second half of the
£7.7bn
year. Otrivin grew in mid single digits, benefiting from new variants,
AER growth CER growth
and Flonase returned to growth following a weaker allergy season
(1)% 2%
25% of Group turnover earlier this year.
Pain relief sales were flat as low single-digit growth in Voltaren and
double-digit growth in Fenbid were offset by a decline in Panadol
sales due to a change in the route-to-market model in South East
2016 7.2
Asia and the discontinuation of slow-release Panadol products in
2017 7.8 the Nordic countries.
Oral health
2018 7.7
Oral health sales grew 1% AER, 4% CER to £2,496 million, as
0 2 4 6 8 10 increased competitive pressures in Europe were offset by double-
digit growth from Sensodyne in a number of International markets,
including India and Turkey, and strong single-digit growth in the US
Consumer Healthcare turnover
driven by Sensodyne Rapid. Denture care grew in high single digits
2018 2017 Growth Growth through the launch of Corega Max in Russia and Brazil, and Gum
£m £m £% CER%
health delivered double-digit growth with continued strong
Wellness 3,940 4,001 (2) 1
parodontax performance in the US. Growth was also partly
Oral health 2,496 2,466 1 4 impacted by de-stocking in International.
Nutrition 643 680 (5) 1
Nutrition
Skin health 579 603 (4) (1)
Nutrition sales declined 5% AER but grew 1% CER to £643 million.
7,658 7,750 (1) 2
Our Nutrition business in India performed strongly across the
product portfolio including new innovations such as Horlicks
2018 2017 Growth Growth Protein+ which was launched earlier in the year. The impact of
£m £m £% CER% divestments and India GST implementation on growth was
US 1,828 1,826 – 2 approximately eight percentage points.
Europe 2,340 2,360 (1) (2)
Skin health
International 3,490 3,564 (2) 4
Skin health sales were down 4% AER, 1% CER to £579 million,
7,658 7,750 (1) 2
largely driven by a decline in Physiogel and the divestment of several
Consumer Healthcare sales in the year declined 1% AER but grew small non-strategic brands in the US, which had a negative impact
2% CER to £7,658 million, with broad-based growth in Oral health on growth of one percentage point.
and Wellness partly offset by a decline in Panadol and lower sales of
smaller brands. International markets performed strongly, particularly
India and Brazil, whilst Europe was impacted by intensifying
competitive pressure in the second half of 2018.
The aggregate impact from generic competition on Transderm Scop
in the US, the divestment of Horlicks and MaxiNutrition in the UK and
other small non-strategic brands and implementation of the GST in
India was to reduce overall sales growth by approximately one
percentage point.49
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Total results continued
Cost of sales The decline in Discovery reflected the transfer of certain Oncology
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 33.2%, down 1.0 assets to the Development phase. The decline in Development
percentage points at AER and 1.4 percentage points in CER terms primarily reflects the comparison with the impact of the utilisation
compared with 2017. This primarily reflected a favourable of the Priority Review Voucher in 2017 and the benefit of the
comparison with £363 million of non-cash restructuring costs from prioritisation initiatives started in the second half of 2017. This was
the write-downs of assets in 2017 related to the decision to withdraw partly offset by increased investment in the progression of a number
Tanzeum. The year also benefited from a more favourable product of mid and late-stage programmes, particularly in Oncology, and the
mix in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, particularly the launch provision for costs payable to a third party relating to the use of a
of Shingrix, together with a further contribution from integration and Priority Review Voucher awarded in 2018. The growth in Technology,
restructuring savings. This was partly offset by continued adverse facilities and functional support costs primarily reflected increased
pricing pressure in Pharmaceuticals, particularly in Respiratory, and investments in data analytics.
in Established Vaccines, together with increased input costs and an
Royalty income
adverse comparison with the benefit of a settlement for lost third-
party supply volume in 2017 in Vaccines. Royalty income was £299 million (2017 – £356 million), down 16%
AER and 17% CER, the reduction primarily reflecting the patent
Selling, general and administration
expiry of Cialis, partly offset by an increase in the Gardasil royalty.
SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 32.2%, 0.1
percentage points higher than in 2017 at both AER and CER, Other operating income/(expense)
reflecting growth of 3% AER, 5% CER. The increase in SG&A Other operating expense of £1,588 million (2017 – £1,965 million)
costs primarily reflected higher restructuring costs, and investment primarily reflected £1,846 million (2017 – £1,517 million) of
in promotional product support, particularly for new launches in accounting charges arising from the re-measurement of our
Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines, partly offset by tight control of contingent consideration liabilities related to the acquisitions of
ongoing costs, particularly in non-promotional and back office the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the former
spending, across all three businesses. Novartis Vaccines business, the value attributable to the Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture put option previously held by Novartis and
Research and development
the liabilities for the Pfizer put option and Pfizer and Shionogi
R&D expenditure was £3,893 million (12.6% of turnover), 13% AER,
preferential dividends in ViiV Healthcare. The 2017 charges included
12% CER lower than in 2017. This reflected reduced restructuring
the impact of US tax reform, which increased the fair value of these
costs primarily due to the comparison with the provision for
liabilities by £666 million. This was partly offset by the profit on a
obligations as a result of the decision to withdraw Tanzeum in 2017
number of asset disposals, including tapinarof, as well as a gain
and lower intangible impairments, a favourable comparison with the
arising from the increase in value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever
impact of the Priority Review Voucher purchased and utilised in
Limited to be received on the disposal of Horlicks and other
H1 2017 and the benefit of our R&D prioritisation initiatives started
Consumer Healthcare brands, net of disposal costs.
in the second half of last year. This was partly offset by increased
investment in the progression of a number of mid and late-stage The accounting charges were driven primarily by a £758 million
programmes, particularly in Oncology, as well as provisions for the re-measurement of the contingent consideration liability due to
costs payable to a third party relating to the use of a Priority Review Shionogi, largely related to the regular updates of exchange rate
Voucher awarded in 2018. assumptions to period end rates and sales forecasts following a
number of studies including the GEMINI study completed in
2017 Q2 2018, together with a £430 million unwind of the discount. In
2018 (revised) Growth
addition, a net charge of £658 million reflected the re-measurement
£m £m £% CER%
of the valuation of the Consumer Healthcare put option to reflect the
Discovery 892 1,007 (11) (10)
price agreed with Novartis to acquire its shareholding, together with
Development 1,332 1,423 (6) (5)
movements in exchange rates, largely offset by gains on hedging
Facilities and central support functions 600 576 4 6 contracts.
Total Pharmaceuticals 2,824 3,006 (6) (5)
Vaccines R&D 673 621 8 8
Consumer Healthcare R&D 238 235 1 3
3,735 3,862 (3) (2)
Items reconciling Adjusted
R&D to Total R&D 158 614
Research and development 3,893 4,476 (13) (12)50
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Total results continued
Operating profit Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures
Total operating profit was £5,483 million in 2018 compared with The share of profits of associates and joint ventures was £31 million
£4,087 million in 2017. The increase in operating profit primarily (2017 – £13 million), primarily arising from our investment in Innoviva.
reflected a favourable comparison with charges of £666 million
Profit before taxation
in 2017 arising from the impact of US tax reform on the valuation
of the Consumer Healthcare and HIV businesses and reduced Taking account of net finance costs the profit on disposal of
restructuring costs and asset impairments. In addition, there was associates and the share of profits of associates, profit before
a contribution from sales growth, a more favourable mix, primarily in taxation was £4,800 million compared with £3,525 million in 2017.
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, benefits from the prioritisation
Taxation
of R&D expenditure and comparison with the impact of the Priority
Review Voucher utilised and expensed in 2017, alongside continued
2018 2017
tight control of ongoing costs. This was partly offset by the increased
£m £m
impact of accounting charges related to the re-measurement of the UK current year charge 234 199
liabilities for contingent consideration, put options and preferential
Rest of world current year charge 1,426 1,928
dividends, continuing pricing pressure, particularly in Respiratory,
Charge in respect of prior periods (492) (508)
increased input costs, the comparison with the benefit in Q2 2017
Total current taxation 1,168 1,619
of a settlement for lost third-party supply volume in Vaccines,
investments in new product support, particularly for launches in Total deferred taxation (414) (263)
Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines and a reduction in royalty income. Taxation on total profits 754 1,356
Contingent consideration cash payments which are made to Shionogi The charge of £754 million represented an effective tax rate on
and other companies reduce our balance sheet liability and hence are Total results of 15.7% (2017 – 38.5%) and reflected the different
not recorded in the income statement. Total contingent consideration tax effects of the various Adjusting items. This includes the effect
cash payments in 2018 amounted to £1,137 million (2017 – £685 of a reduced estimate of the 2017 impact of US tax reform of £125
million). This included a cash milestone paid to Novartis of $450 million, following additional guidance being released by the IRS
million (£317 million) as well as cash payments made to Shionogi and a re-assessment of estimates of uncertain tax positions following
of £793 million (2017 – £671 million). the settlement of a number of open issues with tax authorities. The
reduction from the prior year effective tax rate on Total profits was
Net finance costs
driven primarily by a favourable comparison with the impact of US
2018 2017 tax reform, which resulted in a number of charges in Q4 2017.
Finance income £m £m
Interest and other income 81 63 Non-controlling interests
Fair value movements – 2 The allocation of earnings to non-controlling interests amounted to
81 65 £423 million (2017 – £637 million). The reduction was primarily due
to the lower allocation of Consumer Healthcare profits of £117 million
Finance expense (2017 – £415 million) following the buyout of Novartis’ interest. This
Interest expense (717) (720) was partly offset by an increased allocation of ViiV Healthcare profits
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (15) (16) and higher net profits in some of our other entities with non-
controlling interests.
Remeasurements and fair value movements 3 (4)
Other finance expense (69) 6 Earnings per share
(798) (734) Total earnings per share was 73.7p, compared with 31.4p in 2017.
The increase in earnings per share primarily reflected a favourable
Net finance costs were £717 million compared with £669 million in
comparison with charges in 2017 arising from the impact of US
2017. This reflected higher debt levels following our acquisition from
tax reform, reduced restructuring costs and asset impairments,
Novartis of its stake in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture in
increased operating profits, a lower tax rate and a reduced non-
June 2018 as well as additional interest on tax arising from a historic
controlling interest allocation of Consumer Healthcare profits, partly
tax settlement, recorded in Q3 2018, and an adverse comparison
offset by higher transaction-related charges arising from increases in
with a provision release of £24 million in Q4 2017 (both reflected
the valuation of the liabilities for contingent consideration, put options
in other finance expense). This was partly offset by the benefit of a
and preferential dividends.
one-off accounting adjustment to the amortisation of long-term bond
interest charges of £20 million in Q1 2018 (reported through interest Dividends
expense), the benefit from older bonds being refinanced at lower The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a total dividend
interest rates and the translation impact of exchange rate movements for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend declared for 2017.
on the reported Sterling costs of foreign currency denominated See Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
interest-bearing instruments.
Profit on disposal of associates
The profit on disposal of associates was £3 million
(2017 – £94 million).51
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Adjusting items
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items results
31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,821 30,821
Cost of sales (10,241) 536 69 443 15 – (9,178)
Gross profit 20,580 536 69 443 15 – 21,643
Selling, general and administration (9,915) 2 315 98 38 (9,462)
Research and development (3,893) 44 45 49 20 (3,735)
Royalty income 299 299
Other operating income/(expense) (1,588) 2 1,864 (278) –
Operating profit 5,483 580 116 809 1,977 (220) 8,745
Net finance costs (717) 4 (3) 18 (698)
Profit on disposal of associates 3 (3) –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 31
Profit before taxation 4,800 580 116 813 1,974 (205) 8,078
Taxation (754) (109) (19) (170) (239) (244) (1,535)
Tax rate 15.7% 19.0%
Profit after taxation 4,046 471 97 643 1,735 (449) 6,543
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 251 674
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 471 97 643 1,484 (449) 5,869
Earnings per share 73.7p 9.6p 2.0p 13.1p 30.2p (9.2)p 119.4p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,914 4,914
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and US tax Adjusted
Adjusted results reconciliation
results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items reform results
31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,186 30,186
Cost of sales (10,342) 546 400 545 80 – (8,771)
Gross profit 19,844 546 400 545 80 – 21,415
Selling, general and administration (9,672) 248 83 (9,341)
Research and development (4,476) 45 288 263 18 (3,862)
Royalty income 356 356
Other operating income/(expense) (1,965) 1,519 (220) 666 –
Operating profit 4,087 591 688 1,056 1,599 (119) 666 8,568
Net finance costs (669) 4 8 (657)
Profit on disposal of associates 94 (94) –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 13
Profit before taxation 3,525 591 688 1,060 1,599 (205) 666 7,924
Taxation (1,356) (134) (176) (209) (619) (251) 1,078 (1,667)
Tax rate 38.5% 21.0%
Profit after taxation 2,169 457 512 851 980 (456) 1,744 6,257
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 42 114 793
Profit attributable to shareholders 1,532 457 512 851 938 (456) 1,630 5,464
Earnings per share 31.4p 9.4p 10.5p 17.4p 19.2p (9.4)p 33.3p 111.8p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,886 4,88652
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Adjusting items continued
Intangible asset amortisation and impairment The analysis of major restructuring charges by business was as
Intangible asset amortisation was £580 million compared with follows:
£591 million in 2017. Intangible asset impairments related to
2018 2017
commercial and Pharmaceuticals R&D development assets were £m £m
£116 million (2017 – £688 million). The 2017 charge included Pharmaceuticals 563 682
impairments related to the withdrawal of Tanzeum and a number Vaccines 104 177
of other commercial and Pharmaceuticals R&D development Consumer Healthcare 72 137
assets. These charges were non-cash items.
739 996
Major restructuring and integration Corporate & central functions 70 60
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated manufacturing Total Major restructuring charges 809 1,056
operations and supply chains and long lifecycle of the business mean
that restructuring programmes, particularly those that involve the The analysis of Major restructuring charges by Income statement line
rationalisation or closure of manufacturing or R&D sites, are likely was as follows:
to take several years to complete. 2018 2017
£m £m
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board-
Cost of sales 443 545
approved Major restructuring programmes. Major restructuring
Selling, general and administration 315 248
programmes, including integration costs following material
Research and development 49 263
acquisitions, are those that are structural and are of a significant
scale where the costs of individual or related projects exceed Other operating income/(expense) 2 -
£25 million. Other ordinary course smaller scale restructuring Total Major restructuring charges 809 1,056
costs are retained within Total and Adjusted results.
The Combined restructuring and integration programme delivered
The Board approved a new Major restructuring programme in July
incremental annual cost savings in the year of £0.3 billion. Given its
2018, which is designed to significantly improve the competitiveness
relatively recent launch, the benefit delivery this year from the 2018
and efficiency of our cost base with savings delivered primarily
major restructuring programme was not material.
through supply chain optimisation and reductions in administrative
costs. The analysis of incremental annual cost savings in the year by Income
statement line was as follows:
Total Major restructuring charges incurred in 2018 were £809 million
(2017 – £1,056 million), analysed as follows: 2018 2017
£bn £bn
2018 2017 Cost of sales 0.2 0.2
Non- Non- Selling, general and administration 0.1 0.4
Cash cash Total Cash cash Total Research and development - 0.1
£m £m £m £m £m £m
0.3 0.7
Combined
restructuring Total cash charges for the Combined restructuring and integration
and integration programme are now expected to be approximately £4.1 billion with
programme 330 110 440 531 525 1,056
non-cash charges up to £1.6 billion. The programme has now
2018 major delivered approximately £3.9 billion of annual savings, including an
restructuring estimated currency benefit of £0.3 billion. The programme is now
programme 279 90 369 – – –
expected to deliver by 2020 total annual savings of £4.4 billion
609 200 809 531 525 1,056 on a constant currency basis, including an estimated benefit of £0.4
billion from currency on the basis of 2018 average exchange rates.
Non-cash charges arising under the existing Combined restructuring
and integration programme primarily related to the write-down of The 2018 major restructuring programme is expected to cost
assets as part of the announced plans to reduce the manufacturing £1.7 billion over the period to 2021, with cash costs of £0.8 billion
network. Cash charges arose from restructuring in the Europe and and non-cash costs of £0.9 billion, and is expected to deliver
International Pharmaceuticals commercial operations and some annual savings of around £400 million by 2021 (at 2018 rates).
manufacturing sites. Non-cash charges under the 2018 major These savings will be fully re-invested to help fund targeted
restructuring programme primarily related to announced plans to increases in R&D and commercial support of new products.
restructure the manufacturing network and cash charges to date
under the 2018 major restructuring programme primarily related to
restructuring in the US Pharmaceuticals commercial operation, as
well as some manufacturing sites and central functions.
Total cash payments for the two programmes made in the year were
£537 million (2017 – £555 million).53
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Adjusting items continued
Transaction-related adjustments Contingent consideration cash payments which are made to
Transaction-related adjustments resulted in a net charge of £1,977 Shionogi and other companies reduce the balance sheet liability and
million (2017 – £1,599 million). This primarily reflected £1,846 million hence are not recorded in the income statement. Total contingent
of accounting charges for the re-measurement of the contingent consideration cash payments in the year amounted to £1,137 million
consideration liabilities related to our acquisitions of the former (2017 – £685 million). This included a cash milestone paid to
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the former Novartis Novartis of $450 million (£317 million) as well as cash payments
Vaccines business, the value attributable to the Consumer made by ViiV Healthcare to Shionogi in relation to its contingent
Healthcare Joint Venture put option held by Novartis and the consideration liability (including preferential dividends) which
liabilities for the Pfizer put option and Pfizer and Shionogi amounted to £793 million (2017 – £671 million).
preferential dividends in ViiV Healthcare.
An explanation of the accounting for the non-controlling interests
in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 41.
2018 2017
Charge/(credit) £m £m
Divestments, significant legal charges and other items
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option 658 986
Divestments and other items included the profit on a number of
Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV
asset disposals, including tapinarof, a gain arising from the increase
Healthcare Joint Venture (including Shionogi
in value of the shares in Hindustan Unilever Limited to be received
preferential dividends) 1,188 556
on the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands,
ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential
which is expected to complete by the end of 2019, net of disposal
dividends (58) (126)
costs, as well as equity investment impairments and certain other
Contingent consideration on former Novartis
adjusting items. A charge of £33 million (2017 – £68 million) for
Vaccines business 58 101
significant legal matters included the benefit of the settlement
Other adjustments 131 82
of existing matters as well as provisions for ongoing litigation.
Total transaction-related charges 1,977 1,599 Significant legal cash payments were £39 million
A net charge of £658 million relating to the Consumer Healthcare (2017 – £192 million).
Joint Venture represented the re-measurement of the valuation of
the Consumer Healthcare put option to the agreed valuation of
$13 billion (£9.2 billion on signing), together with an increase due
to movements in exchange rates, which was largely offset by gains
on hedging contracts.
The £1,188 million charge relating to the contingent consideration
for the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare Joint Venture represented a
£758 million increase in the valuation of the contingent consideration
due to Shionogi, primarily as a result of updated exchange rate
assumptions and sales forecasts following the GEMINI study
completed in Q2 2018, together with a £430 million unwind of
the discount.
Other adjustments included a £51 million charge reflecting the
release of an indemnity asset relating to the tax treatment of
inventory acquired as part of the Novartis Vaccines acquisition,
with a corresponding offset in tax, as well as acquisition costs
relating to our acquisition of Tesaro completed in January 2019
and the announced agreement with Pfizer to combine our
consumer healthcare businesses.54
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Adjusted results
Adjusted operating profit (£bn) Research and development
£8.7bn AER growth CER growth
2% 6% 2018 2017 Growth
% of % of
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Research and
development (3,735) (12.1) (3,862) (12.8) (3) (2)
2016 7.7
R&D expenditure was £3,735 million (12.1% of turnover), 3% AER,
2017 8.6 2% CER lower than 2017, primarily reflecting the favourable
comparison with the impact of the Priority Review Voucher
2018 8.7 purchased and utilised in 2017 and the benefit of the prioritisation
initiatives started in the second half of 2017. This was partly offset
0 2 4 6 8 10
by increased investment in the progression of a number of mid and
late-stage programmes, particularly in Oncology, as well as the
GSK uses a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the provision for the costs payable to a third party relating to the use
performance of its business. Adjusted results and other non-IFRS of a Priority Review Voucher awarded and utilised in 2018.
measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute
2017
for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. 2018 (revised) Growth
Adjusted results and other non-IFRS measures are defined on £m £m £% CER%
pages 40 to 42. Discovery 892 1,007 (11) (10)
Development 1,332 1,423 (6) (5)
Cost of sales
Facilities and central support functions 600 576 4 6
2018 2017 Growth Total Pharmaceuticals 2,824 3,006 (6) (5)
% of % of Vaccines R&D 673 621 8 8
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER% Consumer Healthcare R&D 238 235 1 3
Cost of sales (9,178) (29.8) (8,771) (29.1) 5 6
Research and development 3,735 3,862 (3) (2)
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.8%, up 0.7
Adjusted R&D expenditure declined 3% AER, 2% CER with
percentage points at AER, and 0.4 percentage points in CER terms
Pharmaceuticals down 6% AER, 5% CER. The decline in Discovery
compared with 2017. This primarily reflected continued adverse
reflected the transfer of certain Oncology assets to the Development
pricing pressure in Pharmaceuticals, particularly in Respiratory, and
phase. The decline in Development primarily reflects the comparison
Established Vaccines, as well as increased input costs and an
with the impact of the utilisation of the Priority Review Voucher in
adverse comparison with the benefit of a settlement for lost third-
2017 and the benefit of the prioritisation initiatives started in the
party supply volume in 2017 in Vaccines. This was partly offset by a
second half of 2017. This was partly offset by increased investment
more favourable product mix in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare,
in the progression of a number of mid and late-stage programmes,
particularly with the launch of Shingrix, as well as a further
particularly in Oncology, and the provision for costs payable to a third
contribution from integration and restructuring savings in all three
party relating to the use of a Priority Review Voucher awarded in
businesses.
2018. The growth in Technology, facilities and functional support
Selling, general and administration costs primarily reflected increased investments in data analytics.
Royalty income
2018 2017 Growth
% of % of Royalty income was £299 million (2017 – £356 million), the
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER% reduction primarily reflecting the patent expiry of Cialis, partly offset
Selling, general and
by an increase in the Gardasil royalty.
administration (9,462) (30.7) (9,341) (30.9) 1 4
Adjusted operating profit
SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 30.7%, 0.2
percentage points lower at AER than in 2017 and 0.3 percentage
Adjusted operating profit was £8,745 million, 2% higher at AER
points lower on a CER basis. This reflected an increase of 1% AER,
compared with 2017 and 6% higher at CER on a turnover increase
4% CER, primarily resulting from increased investment in
of 5%. The Adjusted operating margin of 28.4% was flat at AER
promotional product support, particularly for new launches in
compared with 2017 but 0.5 percentage points higher on a CER
Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines, partly offset by tight control of
basis. This reflected the benefit from sales growth at CER in all
ongoing costs, particularly in non-promotional and back office
three businesses, a more favourable mix, primarily in Vaccines
spending, across all three businesses.
and Consumer Healthcare, the benefits of prioritisation of R&D
expenditure and the comparison with the impact of the Priority
Review Voucher utilised and expensed in 2017 as well as continued
tight control of ongoing costs across all three businesses. This
was partly offset by continuing pricing pressure, particularly in
Respiratory, increased input costs, the comparison with the benefit
in Q2 2017 of a settlement for lost third-party supply volume in
Vaccines, investments in promotional product support, particularly
for new launches in Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines and a reduction
in royalty income.55
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Adjusted results continued
Adjusted operating profit by business Net finance costs
2018 2017 Growth 2018 2017
Margin Margin Finance income £m £m
£m % £m % £% CER% Interest and other income 81 63
Pharmaceuticals 8,420 48.8 8,667 50.2 (3) – Fair value movements – 2
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,676) (2,740) (2) (1) 81 65
Pharmaceuticals 5,744 33.3 5,927 34.3 (3) –
Finance expense
Vaccines 1,943 33.0 1,644 31.9 18 25
Interest expense (717) (720)
Consumer
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (5) (4)
Healthcare 1,517 19.8 1,373 17.7 10 15
Remeasurements and fair value movements 3 (4)
9,204 29.9 8,944 29.6 3 7
Other finance expense (60) 6
Corporate & other
unallocated costs (459) (376) 22 15 (779) (722)
Adjusted operating Net finance costs were £698 million compared with £657 million
profit 8,745 28.4 8,568 28.4 2 6
in 2017. The increase reflected higher debt levels following the
acquisition from Novartis of its stake in the Consumer Healthcare
Pharmaceuticals operating profit
Joint Venture in June 2018 as well as a £23 million increase in
interest on tax arising from settlement of a historic tax matter and an
Pharmaceuticals operating profit was £5,744 million, down 3% AER
adverse comparison with a provision release of £23 million in 2017
but flat at CER on a turnover increase of 2% CER. The operating
(both reflected in other finance expense). This was partly offset by
margin of 33.3% was 1.0 percentage points lower at AER than in
the benefit of a one-off accounting adjustment to the amortisation
2017 and 0.9 percentage points lower on a CER basis. This primarily
of long-term bond interest charges of £20 million (reported through
reflected the continued impact of lower prices, particularly in
interest expense), the benefit from older bonds and the facilities
Respiratory, and the broader transition of our Respiratory portfolio,
utilised to fund the acquisition of Novartis’ stake in the Consumer
increased investment in new product support and a reduction in
Healthcare Joint Venture being refinanced at lower interest rates
royalty income. This was partly offset by the benefits of prioritisation
and fair value gains on hedging instruments.
within R&D and a favourable comparison with the impact of the
Priority Review Voucher purchased in 2017. Share of after tax profits of associates and
Vaccines operating profit joint ventures
Vaccines operating profit was £1,943 million, 18% AER, 25% CER The share of profits of associates and joint ventures was £31 million
higher than in 2017 on a turnover increase of 16% CER. The (2017 – £13 million), primarily arising from our investment in Innoviva.
operating margin of 33.0% was 1.1 percentage points higher at AER
Taxation
than in 2017 and 2.5 percentage points higher on a CER basis. This
was primarily driven by enhanced operating leverage from strong
Tax on Adjusted profit amounted to £1,535 million and represented
sales growth, an improved product mix, including the impact of the
an effective Adjusted tax rate of 19.0% (2017 – 21.0%). The
launch of Shingrix, together with further restructuring and integration
reduction in the effective Adjusted tax rate in 2018 was primarily
benefits. This was partly offset by the comparison with the benefit of
driven by the reduction in the US federal tax rate.
a settlement for lost third-party supply volume recorded in 2017,
increased supply chain costs and increased SG&A investments to Non-controlling interests
support new launches and business growth.
The allocation of Adjusted earnings to non-controlling interests
Consumer Healthcare operating profit amounted to £674 million (2017 – £793 million). The reduction was
primarily due to the lower allocation of Consumer Healthcare profits
Consumer Healthcare operating profit was £1,517 million, up 10%
of £118 million (2017– £344 million) following the buyout of Novartis’
AER, 15% CER on a turnover increase of 2% CER. The operating
interest. This was partly offset by an increased allocation of ViiV
margin of 19.8% was 2.1 percentage points higher than in 2017 and
Healthcare profits of £501 million (2017 – £414 million), and the
2.2 percentage points higher on a CER basis. This primarily reflected
changes in the proportions of preferential dividends due to each
improved product mix and manufacturing restructuring and
shareholder based on the relative performance of different products,
integration benefits, as well as continued tight control of promotional
as well as increases in the allocation due to higher net profits in some
and other operating expenses.
of the Group’s other entities with non-controlling interests.
Adjusted earnings per share
Adjusted EPS of 119.4p was up 7% AER, 12% CER, compared with
a 6% CER increase in Adjusted operating profit, primarily as a result
of a reduced non-controlling interest allocation of Consumer
Healthcare profits and a lower Adjusted tax rate.56
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Cash generation and conversion
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out below. Free cash flow
2018 2017 Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the Group after
£m £m meeting our obligations for contingent consideration, interest, tax
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,421 6,918
and dividends paid to non-controlling interests, and after capital
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,553) (1,443) expenditure on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,389) (6,380)
2017
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 479 (905) 2018 (revised)
£m £m
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,600 4,605
Free cash inflow 5,692 3,485
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 479 (905)
Exchange adjustments 8 (100) Free cash flow was £5,692 million for the year (2017 – £3,485
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 4,087 3,600 million). The increase primarily reflected improved operating profits, a
smaller increase in working capital following a reduction of inventory
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year
balances and a strong focus on collections, the favourable timing of
comprise:
payments for returns and rebates, reduced legal settlement costs
Cash and cash equivalents 3,874 3,833
and restructuring payments, lower capital expenditure, including a
Cash and cash equivalents reported in assets favourable comparison with the impact of the Priority Review Voucher
held for sale 485 – in 2017, increased disposals of intangible assets of £256 million
Overdrafts (272) (233) (2017 – £48 million), primarily relating to the disposal of tapinarof,
4,087 3,600 and reduced dividend payments to non-controlling interests. This
was partly offset by a negative currency impact on operating profit
The net cash inflow from operating activities for the year was £8,421
and increased contingent consideration payments including the
million (2017 – £6,918 million). The increase primarily reflected
$450 million (£317 million) milestone paid to Novartis in the year.
improved operating profits, a smaller increase in working capital as
a result of a reduction of inventory balances and a strong focus on Reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating
collections, the favourable timing of payments for returns and rebates,
activities to free cash flow
and reduced legal settlement and restructuring payments, partly
offset by a negative currency impact on operating profit. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, which is
Total cash payments to Shionogi in relation to the ViiV Healthcare the closest equivalent IFRS measure to free cash flow, is shown
contingent consideration liability in the year were £793 million below.
(2017 – £671 million), of which £703 million was recognised in cash 2017
flows from operating activities and £90 million was recognised in 2018 (revised)
£m £m
contingent consideration paid within investing cash flows. These
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,421 6,918
payments are deductible for tax purposes.
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,344) (1,545)
Capital expenditure and financial investment Purchase of intangible assets (452) (657)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 168 281
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted
Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 256 48
to £1,796 million (2017– £2,202 million) and disposals realised
£453 million (2017 – £807 million). Cash payments to acquire Interest paid (766) (781)
equity investments amounted to £309 million (2017 – £80 million), Interest received 72 64
primarily relating to 23andMe, and sales of equity investments Dividends from associates and joint ventures 39 6
realised £151 million (2017 – £64 million). Contingent consideration paid (reported in
investing activities) (153) (91)
Contribution from non-controlling interests 21 21
Distributions to non-controlling interests (570) (779)
Free cash flow 5,692 3,48557
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Cash generation and conversion continued
Future cash flow Working capital
Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from
2018 2017
operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt servicing
Working capital percentage of turnover (%) 23 22
costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations under
Working capital conversion cycle (days) 201 191
existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from restructuring
programmes and other routine outflows including tax, pension The increase of 10 days in 2018 compared with 2017 was
contributions and dividends, subject to the ‘Principal risks and predominantly due to an adverse impact from exchange of
uncertainties’ discussed on pages 241 to 250. We may from time to approximately five days as well as a reduced denominator due to
time have additional demands for finance, such as for acquisitions, lower restructuring and impairment costs in 2018. Excluding these
including potentially acquiring increased ownership interests in the factors, significant improvements were made in working capital
ViiV Healthcare business where minority shareholders hold put relative to the growth in the business, with reduced inventory as a
options. We have access to multiple sources of liquidity from short result of tight control of inventory levels and stronger collections of
and long-term capital markets and financial institutions for such receivables.
needs, in addition to the cash flow from operations.
Investment appraisal and capital allocation
We have a strong framework for capital allocation, including a board
to govern the allocation of capital between our businesses. We utilise
a consistent cash return on invested capital (CROIC) methodology to
prioritise investment across the Group as a whole, so that we can
more effectively compare the returns from each of the businesses as
we allocate capital between them. We also consider the impact on
EPS and our credit profile where relevant.
The discount rate used to perform financial analyses is decided
internally, to allow determination of the extent to which investments
cover our cost of capital. For individual investments the discount rate
may be adjusted to take into account specific country, business or
project risk.58
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources
2018 2017 Property, plant and equipment
£m £m
Assets Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
Non-current assets regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
Property, plant and equipment 11,058 10,860 financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our property,
Goodwill 5,789 5,734 plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption to production
Other intangible assets 17,202 17,562 and to ensure compliance with regulatory standards. A number of our
processes use hazardous materials.
Investments in associates and joint ventures 236 183
Other investments 1,322 918 The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at 31 December
Deferred tax assets 3,887 3,796 2018 was £22,488 million, with a net book value of £11,058 million.
Of this, land and buildings represented £4,404 million, plant and
Derivative financial instruments 69 8
equipment £4,582 million and assets in construction £2,072 million.
Other non-current assets 1,576 1,413
In 2018, we invested £1,358 million in new property, plant and
Total non-current assets 41,139 40,474
equipment. This was mainly related to a large number of projects
for the renewal, improvement and expansion of facilities at various
Current assets
worldwide sites to support new product development and launches
Inventories 5,476 5,557
as well as to improve the efficiency of existing supply chains.
Current tax recoverable 229 258
Property is mainly held freehold. New investment is financed from
Trade and other receivables 6,423 6,000 our liquid resources. At 31 December 2018, we had contractual
Derivative financial instruments 188 68 commitments for future capital expenditure of £665 million and
Liquid investments 84 78 operating lease commitments of £1,138 million. We believe that
Cash and cash equivalents 3,874 3,833 our property and plant facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Assets held for sale 653 113 We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to
Total current assets 16,927 15,907 manage environmental risks from our activities. Environmental issues,
Total assets 58,066 56,381 sometimes dating from operations now modified or discontinued,
are reported under ‘Environment’ on page 32 and in Note 45 to the
Liabilities financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Current liabilities
Goodwill
Short-term borrowings (5,793) (2,825)
Contingent consideration liabilities (837) (1,076) Goodwill increased to £5,789 million at 31 December 2018, from
Trade and other payables (14,037) (20,970) £5,734 million. The increase primarily reflected the impact of
Derivative financial instruments (127) (74) exchange movements, partly offset by the transfer of goodwill to
Current tax payable (965) (995) assets held for sale.
Short-term provisions (732) (629)
Other intangible assets
Total current liabilities (22,491) (26,569)
Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired
Non-current liabilities
from third parties and computer software. The net book value of
Long-term borrowings (20,271) (14,264) other intangible assets as at 31 December 2018 was £17,202 million
Corporation tax payable (272) (411) (2017 – £17,562 million). The decrease in 2018 reflected the impact
Deferred tax liabilities (1,156) (1,396) of amortisation and impairment of existing intangibles of £902 million
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (3,125) (3,539) and £134 million respectively, partly offset by the development
Other provisions (691) (636) costs capitalised during the year of £203 million, other additions
of £327 million and the impact of exchange movements.
Derivative financial instruments (1) –
Contingent consideration liabilities (5,449) (5,096) Investments in associates and joint ventures
Other non-current liabilities (938) (981)
We held investments in associates and joint ventures with a carrying
Total non-current liabilities (31,903) (26,323)
value at 31 December 2018 of £236 million (2017 – £183 million).
Total liabilities (54,394) (52,892)
The market value at 31 December 2018 was £487 million
Net assets 3,672 3,489
(2017 – £372 million). The largest of these investments was in
Innoviva Inc. which had a book value at 31 December 2018 of
Equity
£189 million (2017 – £147 million). The market value at 31 December
Share capital 1,345 1,343
2018 was £440 million. See Note 20 to the financial statements,
Share premium account 3,091 3,019
‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’.
Retained earnings (2,137) (6,477)
Other reserves 2,061 2,047
Shareholders’ equity 4,360 (68)
Non-controlling interests (688) 3,557
Total equity 3,672 3,48959
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial position and resources continued
Other investments Provisions
We held other investments with a carrying value at 31 December We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
2018 of £1,322 million (2017 – £918 million). The highest value non-current provisions of £2,579 million at 31 December 2018
investments held at 31 December 2018 were in 23andMe, which (2017 – £2,661 million). Other provisions at the year-end included
was acquired during the year and had a book value at 31 December £219 million (2017 – £186 million) related to legal and other disputes
2018 of £229 million, and Theravance Biopharma, Inc. which had a and £641 million (2017 – £504 million) related to Major restructuring
book value at 31 December 2018 of £194 million (2017 – £199 programmes. Provision has been made for legal and other disputes,
million). The other investments included equity stakes in companies indemnified disposal liabilities, employee related liabilities and the
with which we have research collaborations, which provide access costs of the restructuring programme to the extent that at the balance
to biotechnology developments of potential interest and interests in sheet date a legal or constructive obligation existed and could be
companies that arise from business divestments. reliably estimated.
Derivative financial instruments: assets Pensions and other post-employment benefits
We had current derivative financial assets held at fair value of £188 We account for pension and other post-employment arrangements
million (2017 – £68 million) and non-current derivative financial assets in accordance with IAS 19. The deficits, net of surpluses, before
held at fair value of £69 million (2017 – £8 million). £100 million of allowing for deferred taxation were £995 million (2017 – £1,505
current derivative financial assets related to a derivative embedded million) on pension arrangements and £1,379 million (2017 – £1,496
in the agreement to divest Horlicks and other nutritional brands to million) on unfunded post-employment liabilities. The decrease in net
Unilever plc. See Note 38 for further information. The majority of the deficit was predominantly driven by higher discount rates that we
remainder of these financial instruments related to foreign exchange used to discount the value of the liabilities, partly offset by a reduction
contracts both designated and not designated as accounting hedges. in UK asset values.
Inventories Other non-current liabilities
Inventory of £5,476 million decreased from £5,557 million in 2017. Other non-current liabilities amounted to £938 million at
The decrease primarily reflected tight control of inventory levels. 31 December 2018 (2017 – £981 million).
Trade and other receivables Contingent consideration liabilities
Trade and other receivables of £6,423 million increased from Contingent consideration amounted to £6,286 million at 31 December
£6,000 million in 2017, primarily reflecting the impact of higher sales, 2018 (2017 – £6,172 million), of which £5,937 million (2017 – £5,542
particularly in Vaccines, partly offset by better collections, together million) represented the estimated present value of amounts payable to
with exchange movements. Shionogi relating to ViiV Healthcare and £296 million (2017 – £584
million) represented the estimated present value of contingent
Deferred tax assets
consideration payable to Novartis related to the Vaccines acquisition
following a milestone payment of $450 million made to Novartis in
Deferred tax assets amounted to £3,887 million (2017 –
January 2018.
£3,796 million) at 31 December 2018.
The liability due to Shionogi included £252 million in respect of
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
preferential dividends. The liability for preferential dividends due to
Pfizer at 31 December 2018 was £15 million (2017 – £17 million).
We held current and non-current derivative financial liabilities at fair
An explanation of the accounting for the non-controlling interests
value of £128 million (2017 – £74 million). This primarily related to
in ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 41.
foreign exchange contracts both designated and not designated as
accounting hedges. Of the contingent consideration payable (on a post-tax basis)
at 31 December 2018, £837 million (2017 – £1,076 million)
Trade and other payables is expected to be paid within one year. The consideration payable
for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and
At 31 December 2018, trade and other payables were £14,037
the Novartis Vaccines business is expected to be paid over a number
million compared with £20,970 million at 31 December 2017.
of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to
The decrease primarily reflected the elimination of the Consumer
their present values, on a post-tax basis using post-tax discount
Healthcare Joint Venture put option following the buyout of Novartis’
rates. The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability
interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on 1 June 2018.
is discounted at 8.5% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent
The buyout was primarily funded by utilising the proceeds of bonds
consideration liability is discounted partly at 8% and partly at 9%.
issued with maturity dates of between two and twelve years, in both
the US and Europe, which raised $6 billion and €2.5 billion
respectively. Committed bank facilities financed the remaining
amount of the $13 billion transaction.60
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Maturity profile of long-term debt
£m equivalent
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042 2043 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds Other long-term debt
Net debt Cash and liquid investments of £2.9 billion (2017 – £2.5 billion) were
held centrally at 31 December 2018.
2018 2017
The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging
£m £m
is as follows.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 3,958 3,911
Cash, cash equivalents reported in assets 2018 2017
held for sale 485 – £m £m
Cash and liquid investments 4,443 3,911
Borrowings – repayable within one year (5,793) (2,825)
Gross debt – fixed1 (21,603) (16,229)
Borrowings – repayable after one year (20,271) (14,264)
– floating (4,432) (805)
Net debt (21,621) (13,178)
– non-interest bearing (29) (55)
At 31 December 2018, net debt was £21.6 billion, compared with Net debt (21,621) (13,178)
£13.2 billion at 31 December 2017, comprising gross debt of £26.1
1 Includes £1.3 billion equivalent of notes swapped from floating to fixed rates via interest
billion and cash and liquid investments of £4.5 billion, including £0.5
rate swaps.
billion reported within Assets held for sale, reflecting the agreement to
divest Horlicks and the other Consumer Healthcare nutritional brands Movements in net debt
to Unilever plc. Net debt increased due to the £9.3 billion acquisition
from Novartis of the remaining stake in the Consumer Healthcare Joint
2018 2017
Venture in June 2018, the £0.2 billion investment in 23andMe, £0.8 £m £m
billion of unfavourable exchange impacts from the translation of Net debt at beginning of year (13,178) (13,804)
non-Sterling denominated debt, and dividends paid to shareholders Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 479 (905)
of £3.9 billion, partly offset by increased free cash flow of £5.7 billion
Increase in liquid investments – (4)
after the milestone payment to Novartis.
Increase in long-term loans (10,138) (2,233)
At 31 December 2018, GSK’s cash and liquid investments were held Net repayment of short-term loans 1,986 3,200
as follows: Exchange movements (776) 585
2018 2017 Other movements 6 (17)
£m £m
Net debt at end of year (21,621) (13,178)
Bank balances and deposits 1,853 1,715
Bank balances and deposits reported in
assets held for sale 485 –
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money
market funds 449 1,715
Liquidity funds 1,572 403
Cash and cash equivalents 4,359 3,833
Liquid investments – Government securities 84 78
4,443 3,91161
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial position and resources continued
Total equity Commitments and contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2018, total equity had increased from £3,489 million Financial commitments are summarised in Note 41 to the financial
at 31 December 2017 to £3,672 million. This primarily reflected the statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities are set out
impact of Total profit and the re-measurement gains on defined in Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’.
benefit plans offset by dividends paid and an unfavourable exchange
Contractual obligations and commitments
translation impact in the year.
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below. The following table sets out our contractual obligations and
2018 2017 commitments at 31 December 2018 as they fall due for payment.
£m £m
Total equity at beginning of year 3,489 4,963 Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
Implementation of IFRS 15 (4) –
Loans 26,154 5,771 3,367 3,562 13,454
Implementation of IFRS 9 (11) –
Interest on loans 9,418 714 1,383 1,187 6,134
Total equity at beginning of year, as adjusted 3,474 4,963 Finance lease obligations 68 24 29 9 6
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,300 2,882
Finance lease charges 16 5 3 3 5
Dividends to shareholders (3,927) (3,906)
Operating lease
Ordinary shares issued 74 56
commitments 1,138 223 316 228 371
Changes in non-controlling interests – (2)
Intangible assets 4,762 172 420 743 3,427
De-recognition of liabilities with non-controlling
Property, plant & equipment 665 560 105 – –
interests (62) –
Investments 82 38 32 12 –
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – (65)
Purchase commitments 561 436 124 1 –
Share-based incentive plans 360 333
Pensions 238 75 119 44 –
Tax on share-based incentive plans 2 (4)
Total 43,102 8,018 5,898 5,789 23,397
Contributions from non-controlling interests 21 21
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on loans
Distributions to non-controlling interests (570) (789)
are disclosed before taking into account the effect of derivatives.
Total equity at end of year 3,672 3,489
We have entered into a number of research collaborations to develop
Share purchases new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. The terms
of these arrangements can include upfront fees, equity investments,
No shares were acquired by the Employee Share Ownership Plan loans and commitments to fund specified levels of research. In
(ESOP) Trusts in 2018 (2017 – £65 million). Shares are held by the addition, we will often agree to make further payments if future
Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under the ‘milestones’ are achieved.
Group share option and award schemes. A proportion of the shares
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
held by the Trusts are in respect of awards where the rules of the
stages of development, the potential obligation to make milestone
scheme require us to satisfy exercises through market purchases
payments will continue for a number of years if the compounds move
rather than the issue of new shares. The shares held by the Trusts
successfully through the development process. Generally, the closer
are matched to options and awards granted.
the product is to marketing approval, the greater the probability
At 31 December 2018, the ESOP Trusts held 41.5 million of success. The amounts shown above within intangible assets
(2017 – 66.7 million) GSK shares against the future exercise of represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones were
share options and share awards. The carrying value of £161 million achieved, and include £4.2 billion which relates to externalised
(2017 – £400 million) has been deducted from other reserves. The projects in the discovery portfolio. There was a reduction in the
market value of these shares was £619 million (2017 – £882 million). commitments in 2018 due to amendments made to existing
During 2018, no shares were repurchased by the company. At agreements and obligations which have ceased.
31 December 2018, GSK held 414.6 million shares as Treasury In 2018, we reached a revised agreement with the trustees of the
shares (2017 – 414.6 million shares), at a cost of £5,800 million UK pension schemes to make additional contributions, to assist in
(2017 – £5,800 million), which has been deducted from retained eliminating the pension deficit identified as part of the 31 December
earnings. 2017 actuarial funding valuation. The table above includes this
No ordinary shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2019 commitment but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding
to 1 March 2019 and the company does not expect to make any requirement in the UK of approximately £140 million. This funding
ordinary share repurchases in the remainder of 2019. commitment supersedes the previous agreement made in 2016.
For further information on pension obligations, see Note 28 to the
financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.62
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Contingent liabilities We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes when an
outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising of the outflow may be made. At 31 December 2018, other than for
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible
items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might
expected to expire. be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an
outflow was more than remote.
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from the
Guarantees 33 13 13 4 3 amounts provided and is dependent upon negotiations with the
Other contingent liabilities 60 17 13 11 19 relevant tax authorities and the outcome of litigation proceedings,
where relevant. This is discussed further in ‘Principal risks and
Total 93 30 26 15 22
uncertainties’ on pages 241 to 250 and Note 45 to the financial
In the normal course of business, we have provided various statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in
ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability
which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A
provision is made where an outflow of resources is considered
The contingent consideration payable to Shionogi amounted to
probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome
£5,937 million at 31 December 2018 (2017 – £5,542 million),
of the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the financial
discounted at 8.5%. The undiscounted value was £8,885 million
statements, ‘Other provisions’.
at 31 December 2018.
Treasury policies
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash flows. Our long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A+
The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the Group’s external (negative outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’)
and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of is A2 (negative outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and
our strategic objectives. GSK operates on a global basis, primarily P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
through subsidiary companies, and we manage our capital to ensure
Liquidity risk management
that our subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to
optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance
Our policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated funding
of debt and equity. Treasury activities are governed by policies
requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding requirements are
approved annually by the Board of Directors, and most recently
monitored by the TMG on a regular basis. Our strategy is to diversify
on 18 October 2018. A Treasury Management Group (TMG)
liquidity sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad
meeting, chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a
access to financial markets.
regular basis to review Treasury activities. Its members receive
management information relating to these activities. Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries
to central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
Treasury operations
Interest rate risk management
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activities is to minimise the post-tax
net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility in order to Our objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
benefit earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety of financial to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
instruments to finance its operations and derivative financial time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the net
instruments to manage market risks from these operations. amount of floating rate debt to a specific cap, reviewed and agreed
Derivatives principally comprise foreign exchange forward contracts no less than annually by the Board.
and swaps which are used to swap borrowings and liquid assets
Foreign exchange risk management
into currencies required for Group purposes as well as interest rate
swaps which are used to manage exposure to financial risks from
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external trade
changes in interest rates.
flows are not normally hedged. Foreign currency transaction
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation to exposures arising on internal trade flows are selectively hedged.
underlying business activities and not as trading or speculative Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
instruments. subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income
with local currency costs where possible. GSK’s internal trading
Capital management
transactions are matched centrally and we manage inter-company
payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency
Our financial strategy, implemented through the Group’s Financial
cash flows can be hedged selectively under the management of
architecture, supports GSK’s strategic priorities and it is regularly
Treasury and the TMG. These include hedges of the foreign
reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital structure of the
exchange risk arising from acquisitions and disposals of assets.
Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity. We continue
Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
to manage our financial policies to a credit profile that particularly
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
targets short-term credit ratings of A-1 and P-1 while maintaining
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
single A long-term ratings consistent with those targets.
currency.63
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Treasury policies continued
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek Counterparty risk management
to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets
and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US Dollars, We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
Euros and Sterling. Borrowings can be swapped into other investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
currencies as required. Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Treasury’s usage of these limits
is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO) who
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
operates independently of Treasury. Any breach of these limits would
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated
be reported to the CFO immediately.
as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major
currencies are also used to reduce exposure to the Group’s The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and,
investment in overseas Group assets. The TMG reviews the when changes in ratings occur, notifies Treasury so that changes
ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies regularly. can be made to investment levels or to authority limits as appropriate.
In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are reviewed
regularly and a report is presented annually to the TMG for approval.
Critical accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance – The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme
with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients. In
with IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to
approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial reduce State and Federal expenditure on prescription drugs. In
statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became
law. We participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for
We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect
Medicaid rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of
the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported
the relevant regulations or the Patient Protection and Affordable
in the financial statements. Actual amounts and results could differ
Care Act
from those estimates.
– Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas:
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
– Turnover adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience
– Taxation (Note 14) – We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
– Legal and other disputes (Notes 29 and 45) historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced,
together with market related information such as stock levels at
– Intangible asset impairments (Note 19)
wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
– Business combinations (Note 38)
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
– Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 28). Pharmaceuticals business is as follows:
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas
2018 2017 2016
is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting
judgements and estimates’. Margin (revised) Margin (revised) Margin
£m % £m % £m %
Turnover Gross turnover 18,227 100 16,365 100 13,363 100
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business Market driven
is US Pharmaceuticals, and the US market has the most complex segments (5,147) (28) (4,040) (25) (2,731) (21)
arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances. The following Government
briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in existence in our mandated and
state programs (4,594) (25) (3,933) (24) (3,063) (23)
US Pharmaceuticals business:
Cash discounts (361) (2) (330) (2) (261) (2)
– We have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby
Customer returns (98) (1) (97) (1) (98) (1)
the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at reduced
Prior year adjustments 98 1 86 1 109 1
prices. A chargeback represents the difference between the
Other prior year items (59) – (23) – (25) –
invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect customer’s
contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating chargebacks Other items (613) (4) (460) (3) (457) (3)
are calculated based on the terms of each agreement, historical Total deductions (10,774) (59) (8,797) (54) (6,526) (49)
experience and product growth rates Net turnover 7,453 41 7,568 46 6,837 51
– Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and Group
Market-driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and
Purchasing Organisations and other direct and indirect customers.
Medicare plans with which we negotiate contract pricing that
These arrangements require the customer to achieve certain
is honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments
performance targets relating to the value of product purchased,
consist primarily of Medicaid and Federal Government programmes
formulary status or pre-determined market shares relative to
which receive government-mandated pricing via rebates and
competitors. The accrual for customer rebates is estimated based
chargebacks.
on the specific terms in each agreement, historical experience and
product growth rates64
GSK Annual Report 2018
Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies continued
The increased deductions in the market driven segments of the We may become involved in significant legal proceedings, in respect
gross turnover to net turnover reconciliation primarily reflected of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected
higher rebates and chargebacks on Respiratory products, and financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the
on Advair in particular. During 2018, Advair accounted for 15% proceedings. In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such
of US Pharmaceuticals turnover and approximately 34% of the cases would be included in the Annual Report, but no provision
total deduction for rebates and returns, and the Respiratory would be made.
portfolio as a whole accounted for approximately 78% of the
This position could change over time and, therefore, there can be
total deduction in the year. Advair continued to suffer pricing
no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any
pressures in 2018 as we sought to transition our Respiratory
legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the amount
portfolio to newer products.
of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial statements.
The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances
Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with various
and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses
complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, as well as
are managed on a combined basis. At 31 December 2018, the
investigations of its operations conducted by various governmental
total accrual amounted to £4,356 million (2017 – £2,837 million).
regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the General Counsel of
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at the Group, as head of the Group’s legal function, and the Senior
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses Vice President and Head of Global Litigation for the Group, who is
gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party responsible for all litigation and government investigations, routinely
data sources and information received from key wholesalers. brief the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the
The aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level Board of Directors on the significant litigation pending against the
from year to year based on the pattern of consumption. Group and governmental investigations of the Group.
On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels at These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant
wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December 2018 litigation and government investigations and review matters such
were estimated to amount to approximately four weeks of turnover. as the number of claims notified to us, information on potential
This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy of which claims not yet notified, assessment of the validity of claims,
cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently reliable progress made in settling claims, recent settlement levels and
for this purpose. potential reimbursement by insurers.
Legal and other disputes The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not there
is sufficient information available for us to be able to make a reliable
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes, estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes. Often, external
the following briefly describes the process by which we determine counsel assisting us with various litigation matters and investigations
the level of provision that is necessary. will also assist in the briefing of the Board and senior management.
Following these discussions, for those matters where it is possible
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
to make a reliable estimate of the amount of a provision, if any, that
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for
may be required, the level of provision for legal and other disputes is
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is
reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. These matters are discussed
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of
further in Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses
arising from claims against the Group.
Strategic report
The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on
11 March 2019
Simon Dingemans
Chief Financial Officer
11 March 20196655
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001188 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Corporate
Governance
In this section
Chairman’s Governance statement 66
Our Board 68
Our Corporate Executive Team 71
Leadership and effectiveness 72
Nominations Committee report 77
Accountability 79
Audit & Risk Committee report 79
Relations with stakeholders 89
Engagement activities 89
Science Committee report 91
Corporate Responsibility Committee report 92
Directors’ report 9466
GSK Annual Report 2018
Chairman’s Governance statement
“Our purpose and values have always been a source of great
pride for the Board and our employees. It is a powerful force in
attracting and retaining talented people who, as individuals, want
to be part of a company that contributes meaningfully to society.”
Dear Shareholder The Reforms came into effect on 1 January 2019 and seek to drive a
I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance report for 2018. number of changes to companies’ underlying corporate governance
processes. As a result, the Board has reviewed our existing practices
Our governance structure operates from the Board across the Group
to identify where they are in line with the Reforms and implemented
and we believe it underpins our ability to deliver our strategy and
enhancements where appropriate. We will report against the
create long-term value and benefit for our shareholders and
Reforms in next year’s Annual Report to allow time to embed these
stakeholders.
new practices in our corporate governance framework and to monitor
I can confirm that throughout 2018 the company complied with their operation and effectiveness.
the requirements of the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC) UK
However, I wish to highlight in this Report some of the more
Corporate Governance Code (current Code) except that Dr Vivienne
significant implementation steps which may be of interest to our
Cox was unable to attend the company’s 2018 AGM. She was
investors and wider stakeholders. These include the early publication
required to attend a board meeting of another public company as
of our CEO pay ratio on page 106 and the designation of Dr Vivienne
their Senior Independent Director and Nomination & Governance
Cox as our Workforce Engagement Director, which is discussed on
Chair. This resulted in partial non-compliance with current Code
page 90. We have also further strengthened reporting on our
provision E.2.3.
stakeholder relationships agenda by:
A copy of the current Code is available on www.frc.org.uk.
– summarising our approach and the mechanisms we have in place
The following pages set out details on the composition of our Board, to promote stakeholder engagement on page 11;
its corporate governance arrangements, processes and activities
– highlighting the specific role our Corporate Responsibility
during the year, together with reports from each of the Board’s
Committee plays in monitoring, identifying and addressing the
Committees. In addition, related statutory disclosures are set out in
evolving views and expectations of our broad range of
the Shareholder Information section on pages 251 to 270.
stakeholders on pages 92 and 93; and
Corporate governance reform
– describing how we respond to the expectations of our
stakeholders to remain commercially successful, protect our
During the year, The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting)
reputation and build trust by:
Regulations 2018 were published in conjunction with the FRC’s new
Code (the Reforms). The Reforms seek to raise the bar on existing – using our science and technology to reduce health needs
corporate governance practices and encourage companies to
– making our products more affordable and available
demonstrate their broader responsibility within society, in fulfilment of
the Government’s aim to build trust in business. At their core, they: – being a modern employer.
– require boards to report on how they have had regard to matters
set out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, including
stakeholder impacts, when fulfilling their directors’ duties;
– introduce new requirements around employee consultation, pay
practices, board culture, composition and diversity; and
– encourage companies to report on how the new Code’s principles
have been applied each year.67
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our purpose, strategy and culture Succession process
Our purpose is to help people do more, feel better and live longer In closing, I informed the Board at the start of the year of my intention
and this is underpinned by our values of patient focus, integrity, to retire from the Board once a successor has been appointed. Our
respect and transparency. Our purpose and values have always been Senior Independent Director, Vindi Banga, is leading the process to
a source of great pride for the Board and our employees. It is a identify and recruit my successor to lead the Board into the next
powerful force in attracting and retaining talented people who, phase of its development. His update on the process and the desired
as individuals, want to be part of a company that contributes attributes sought in a new Chairman are set out on page 78.
meaningfully to society. Emma Walmsley was keen to preserve
It has been a privilege to serve as Chairman of GSK for the last four
this commitment to our purpose and values as she and her team
years and to observe the positive impact on the company that Emma
developed the company’s priorities around IPT, supported by
has made in such a relatively short time as CEO. This Annual Report
evolving a culture to foster more pace and performance edge. The
demonstrates the clarity of the current strategy that has resulted in an
Board receives regular papers from the CEO, Head of Human
improvement in the performance of the business. However, I feel that
Resources and our global businesses, that update it on progress on
it is the right time to hand over the reins to a new Chair to have a clear
the alignment between our strategy and our performance and
run at overseeing the eventual separation of GSK into two world-
values-based culture that was introduced at the start of 2018.
class businesses. In doing so, I am confident that my successor will
Culture change in a complex, global organisation such as GSK takes continue the crucial role of the Chair in promoting and supporting our
time and sustained effort. However, we are seeing some encouraging strategy for the long-term benefit of our shareholders, patients,
signs that our new expectations are taking effect and supporting our employees and other stakeholders.
strategy. This ultimately should enable swifter progress in getting
I commend this report to all of our stakeholders.
new medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products to our
patients and consumers around the world.
Risk management Philip Hampton
Chairman
The Board continues to consider GSK’s Enterprise risks and the 11 March 2019
strategies to address them. Reviews of the risks were undertaken
throughout the course of the year, including whether the key
Enterprise risks affecting the respective businesses are being
managed and mitigated in a proportionate way, and management’s
commitment to maintain a strong controls culture.
Also of note is the recent decision by the Serious Fraud Office,
in the UK, to close its investigation having concluded that no further
action is required. The investigation had focused on commercial
practices by the company, its subsidiaries and associated persons.
The company’s own findings have led to further improvements in
the control environment. Investigations by the US Securities and
Exchange Commission and Department of Justice remain ongoing.68
GSK Annual Report 2018
Our Board
Board composition Gender diversity
Composition Board At date of publication Board At close of AGM on 8 May 2019
Executive 33.3% Male 58.3% Male 54.5%
Non-Executive 66.7% Female 41.7% Female 45.5%
Tenure Non-Executive Executive Executive
Up to 3 years 25% Male 75% Male 66.7%
3-6 years 50% Female 25% Female 33.3%
7-9 years 25% Non-Executive Non-Executive
Male 50% Male 50%
International experience
Female 50% Female 50%
Global 83%
US 100%
Europe 92%
EMAP 67%
Philip Hampton 65 Emma Walmsley 49
Non-Executive Chairman N Chief Executive Officer
Nationality Nationality
British British
Appointed Appointed
1 January 2015. Deputy Chairman from 1 April 2015 and Non-Executive 1 January 2017. Chief Executive Officer from 1 April 2017
Chairman from 7 May 2015
Skills and experience
Skills and experience Prior to her appointment as GSK’s CEO, Emma was the CEO of GSK
Prior to joining GSK, Philip chaired major FTSE 100 companies, including Consumer Healthcare, leading its creation as a Joint Venture between
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and J Sainsbury plc. He has also GSK and Novartis in March 2015 (solely owned by GSK since June 2018).
served as Group Finance Director at Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, Emma joined GSK in 2010 from L’Oreal, having worked for 17 years
BG Group plc, British Gas plc and British Steel plc. Philip was previously in a variety of roles in Paris, London, New York and Shanghai.
an Executive Director of Lazards and a Non-Executive Director of RMC
Emma holds an MA in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford
Group Plc and Belgacom SA. Until 2009, he was Chairman of UK Financial
University.
Investments Limited, which manages the UK Government’s shareholdings
in banks. Philip was Senior Independent Director of Anglo American Plc External appointments
between 2014 and 2018, having served on its Board since 2009. Emma co-chairs the Consumer, Retail and Life Sciences Council, a business
advisory group for the UK Government, and is an Honorary Fellow of the
External appointments
Royal Society of Chemistry.
Philip is Chair of the Hampton-Alexander Review of FTSE Women Leaders,
an independent review on improving gender balance in FTSE leadership.
Simon Dingemans 55
As announced in January 2019, Philip will step down as Non-Executive Chief Financial Officer
Chairman and the Board has started the process of identifying his successor.
Nationality
British
Appointed
4 January 2011. Chief Financial Officer from 1 April 2011
Skills and experience
Prior to joining GSK, Simon had over 25 years of experience in investment
banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs. Simon advised GSK for over
a decade before his appointment and was closely involved in a number
of GSK’s key strategic projects. Simon was previously Chairman of the
100 Group of Finance Directors between 2014 and 2016.
Key
External appointments
Simon is a Trustee of The Donmar Warehouse.
Committee Chair
Simon will step down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM
N Nominations on 8 May 2019.
A Audit & Risk
R Remuneration
S Science
C Corporate Responsibility69
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Iain Mackay 57 Dr Vivienne Cox 59
Chief Financial Officer Designate Independent Non-Executive Director & Workforce
Engagement Director R C
Nationality
British Nationality
Appointed British
14 January 2019. Chief Financial Officer from 1 April 2019 Appointed
Skills and experience 1 July 2016
Prior to joining GSK, Iain was Group Finance Director at the global bank Skills and experience
HSBC Holdings plc, a position he held for eight years. A chartered Vivienne has wide experience of business gained in the energy, natural
accountant, Iain has worked in Asia, the US and Europe and before HSBC resources and publishing sectors. She also has a deep understanding of
was at General Electric, Schlumberger Dowell and Price Waterhouse. regulatory and government relationships. She worked for BP plc for 28 years,
External appointments in Britain and continental Europe, in posts including Executive Vice President
Iain is a Trustee of the British Heart Foundation and a member of the Court and Chief Executive of BP’s gas, power and renewable business and its
of the University of Aberdeen. alternative energy unit. Vivienne was previously a Non-Executive Director
of BG Group plc and Rio Tinto plc and Lead Independent Director at the
Iain holds an MA in Business Studies and Accounting, and an Honorary
UK Government’s Department for International Development. Vivienne was
Doctorate from Aberdeen University in Scotland.
appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2016 New
Year Honours for services to the UK Economy and Sustainability.
Dr Hal Barron 56
External appointments
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D
Vivienne is Senior Independent Director of Pearson plc, a Non-Executive
Nationality Director of Stena AB and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Vallourec.
American She is an Advisory Board Member of the African Leadership Institute,
Chair of Rosalind Franklin Institute, Vice President of the Energy Institute
Appointed and a member of the advisory board of Montrose Associates. Vivienne sits
1 January 2018 on the Global Leadership Council of Saïd Business School, Oxford and is
Skills and experience Patron of the Hospice of St Francis.
Prior to joining GSK, Hal was President R&D at Calico LLC (California Life
Company), an Alphabet-funded company that uses advanced technologies Lynn Elsenhans 62
to increase understanding of lifespan biology. Prior to joining Calico, Hal was Independent Non-Executive Director C N A
Executive Vice President, Head of Global Product Development, and Chief
Medical Officer of Roche, responsible for all the products in the combined Nationality
portfolio of Roche and Genentech. At Genentech, he was Senior Vice American
President of Development and Chief Medical Officer. Hal was a Non- Appointed
Executive Director and Chair of the Science & Technology Committee 1 July 2012
at Juno Therapeutics, Inc until March 2018, when it was acquired by
Skills and experience
Celgene Corporation.
Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and significant
External appointments knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates. She served as
Hal is Associate Adjunct Professor, Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Inc from 2009 to
of California, San Francisco. He is also a Non-Executive Board Director of 2012. Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and Chief Executive
GRAIL, Inc, an early cancer detection healthcare company and a member Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell, which she joined in 1980, and
of the Advisory Board of Verily Life Sciences LLC, a subsidiary of where she held a number of senior roles, including Executive Vice President,
Alphabet Inc. Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008. Lynn was previously a Non-
Executive Director of Flowserve Corporation, the First Tee of Greater
Manvinder Singh (Vindi) Banga 64 Houston, and a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director N A R External appointments
Nationality Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes, a GE company, and
Chair of its Audit Committee, as well as a Board Director of Saudi Aramco.
British
In addition, Lynn is a Director of the Texas Medical Center.
Appointed
1 September 2015 and as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
from 5 May 2016
Skills and experience
Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent 33 years at Unilever plc, where his last
role (amongst several senior positions) was President of the Global Foods,
Home and Personal Care businesses, and a member of the Unilever
Executive Board. Vindi sat on the Prime Minister of India’s Council of Trade
& Industry from 2004 to 2014, and was on the Board of Governors of the
Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad. Vindi is also the recipient
of the Padma Bhushan, one of India’s highest civilian honours. Vindi has
been a Non-Executive Director of Thomson Reuters Corp, Chairman of
the Supervisory Board of Mauser Group and Senior Independent Director
of Marks & Spencer Group Plc.
External appointments
Vindi is a Partner at private equity investment firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice,
Chairman of Kalle GmbH, a Director of High Ridge Brands Co and a member
of the Holdingham International Advisory Board. Vindi is a Non-Executive
Director of the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), sits on the Governing
Board of the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad and the Global Leadership
Council of Saïd Business School, Oxford and is a member of the Indo UK CEO
Forum. Vindi is Chair of the Board of Trustees of Marie Curie.70
GSK Annual Report 2018
Our Board continued
Dr Laurie Glimcher 67 Judy Lewent 70
Independent Non-Executive Director and Scientific & Medical Expert Independent Non-Executive Director A N R S
A S
Nationality
Nationality American
American Appointed
Appointed 1 April 2011
1 September 2017 Skills and experience
Skills and experience Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry and
In addition to a number of senior leadership positions held at both Harvard of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co in 1980 and then served
Medical School and Harvard School of Public Health, Laurie also served as its Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired. Judy
as Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean and Professor of Medicine at Weill served as a Non-Executive Director of Dell Inc, Quaker Oats Company and
Cornell Medical College and as an Attending Physician at the New York Motorola Inc, and held Non-Executive Directorships at Purdue Pharma Inc,
Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. Laurie stepped down Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited and certain Mundipharma
from the Board of Bristol-Myers Squibb Co (BMS) in 2017 after serving for International Limited companies until 2014.
20 years on its Board. Laurie brings scientific and public health expertise The Board has determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial
to the Board’s deliberations, and a wealth of global, publicly listed, experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualifications and
pharmaceutical business experience. background to be an audit committee financial expert.
External appointments External appointments
Laurie is currently Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School and is Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc and
CEO, President and an Attending Physician at the Dana-Farber Cancer Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust,
Institute. a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation,
Laurie is a member of the US National Academy of Sciences and the National a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member
Academy of Medicine. She is a member of the Scientific Steering Committee of the Business Advisory Board of twoXAR.
of the Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy and a Non-Executive
Director of the Waters Corporation, where she also serves on its Corporate Urs Rohner 59
Governance Committee. In addition, Laurie is co-founder and Chair of the Independent Non-Executive Director R N
Scientific Advisory Board of Quentis Therapeutics Inc. She is a Scientific
Advisory Board member of Repare Therapeutics Inc, Abpro Therapeutics Nationality
and Kaleido Biosciences Inc. Swiss
Appointed
Dr Jesse Goodman 67 1 January 2015
Independent Non-Executive Director and Scientific & Medical Expert
Skills and experience
S C Urs has a broad range of business and legal experience having served
as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse, a
Nationality
world-leading financial services company. Prior to joining Credit Suisse in
American
2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive Board and CEO of ProSieben
Appointed and ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This followed a number of years in private
1 January 2016 practice at major law firms in Switzerland and the US, having been admitted
Skills and experience to the bars of the canton of Zurich in Switzerland in 1986 and the state of
Jesse previously served in senior leadership positions at the US Food New York in the US in 1990.
and Drug Administration (FDA), including most recently as the FDA’s External appointments
Chief Scientist and previously as Deputy Commissioner for Science and Urs is Chairman of the Board of Credit Suisse Group AG and of its
Public Health and as Director of the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Chairman’s and Governance Committee. He is also Chairman and member
Research (CBER). of the Board of Trustees of Credit Suisse Research Institute and Credit
Jesse played a leadership role in developing the FDA’s Regulatory Science Suisse Foundation. Urs was appointed Vice-Chairman of the Governing
and Medical Countermeasures Initiatives and has worked collaboratively Board of the Swiss Bankers Association in 2015.
with industry, academia, government and global public health and regulatory
partners to prepare for and respond to major public health threats, including
emerging infectious diseases, disasters and terrorism. He led the FDA’s
response to West Nile Virus and to the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic and
served on the Senior Leadership Team for the 2010 White House Medical
Countermeasure Review. Jesse brings scientific and public health expertise
to the Board’s deliberations.
External appointments
Jesse, currently Professor of Medicine at Georgetown University, directs
the Georgetown University Center on Medical Product Access, Safety and
Stewardship (COMPASS) and is an active clinician who serves as Attending
Physician in Infectious Diseases. He also serves as President and Member
of the Board of the United States Pharmacopeia (USP), a member
of the Regulatory and Legal Working Group of the Coalition for Epidemic
Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and of the US National Academy of
Medicine. Jesse is a member of the Board of Intellia Therapeutics,
Cambridge, MA.71
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our Corporate Executive Team
Brian McNamara Karenann Terrell
Emma Walmsley
CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare Chief Digital & Technology Officer
Chief Executive Officer
Brian joined the CET in 2016, when he was Karenann joined GSK and the CET in 2017 as
Simon Dingemans*
appointed CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare. Chief Digital & Technology Officer, responsible for
Chief Financial Officer
He joined GSK in 2015 as Head of Europe our technology, digital, data and analytics strategy.
Iain Mackay* and Americas for GSK Consumer Healthcare, Previously, she worked for Walmart as Chief
Chief Financial Officer Designate following the creation of a Joint Venture between Information Officer. Prior to this, she was at
GSK and Novartis. Previously, he was head
Baxter International, where she was Chief
Dr Hal Barron of Novartis’ OTC division. Brian began his
Information Officer, and before that Daimler
Chief Scientific Officer career at Procter and Gamble.
Chrysler Corporation. Karenann began her
and President, R&D Brian is a Board Member of the World Self- career at General Motors.
Medication Industry Association, serving as
For biographical details, see pages 68 and 69 Karenann is a member of the board of trustees
Chairman from February 2017 to March 2019,
for the New York Hall of Science and in 2017 she
and is a Board Member of the Consumer Goods
became a Non-Executive Director of Pluralsight
Forum. He earned an undergraduate degree
LLC. She earned graduate and post-graduate
in Electrical Engineering from Union College
Roger Connor in New York and an MBA in Finance from the degrees in Electrical Engineering from Kettering
and Purdue Universities respectively.
President, Global Vaccines University of Cincinnati.
Claire Thomas
Roger joined the CET in 2013. He was appointed Luke Miels
Senior Vice President, Human Resources
President of GSK Global Vaccines in 2018. President, Global Pharmaceuticals
In addition to leadership of the Vaccines business, Claire was appointed to the CET as Senior
he is responsible for GSK’s global procurement Luke joined GSK and the CET in September Vice President, Human Resources in 2008.
organisation. Previously, he was President, 2017 as President, Global Pharmaceuticals, She joined the Company in 1996 as Senior
Global Manufacturing & Supply and, before responsible for our commercial portfolio of Manager, Human Resources, Sales and
that, Vice President, Office of the CEO and medicines and vaccines. Marketing Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before
Corporate Strategy. Roger joined GSK in 1998 Previously, he worked for AstraZeneca as Executive becoming Director of Human Resources for
from AstraZeneca. Vice President of their European business and, UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997. She was appointed
Roger holds a degree in Mechanical and prior to that, was Executive Vice President of Senior Vice President, Human Resources,
Manufacturing Engineering from Queen’s Global Product and Portfolio Strategy, Global Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, and Senior
University, Belfast and a Master’s in Manufacturing Medical Affairs and Corporate Affairs. Before Vice President, Human Resources,
Leadership from Cambridge University. then, he held roles of increasing seniority at Roche Pharmaceuticals International in 2006.
He is a Chartered Accountant. and Sanofi-Aventis in the US, Europe and Asia. Prior to GSK, Claire worked for the Ford Motor
He is a member of the Board for ViiV Healthcare.
James Ford Company, holding various positions in Human
Luke holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Resources. She has a Bachelor of Science
Senior Vice President & General Counsel
Biology from Flinders University in Adelaide and degree in Economics, Management and Industrial
James joined the CET in 2018, when he was an MBA from the Macquarie University, Sydney. Relations from the University of Wales.
appointed Senior Vice President and General David Redfern Phil Thomson
Counsel. He joined GSK in 1995 and has served
Chief Strategy Officer President, Global Affairs
as General Counsel Consumer Healthcare,
General Counsel Global Pharmaceuticals, David joined the CET as Chief Strategy Officer Phil joined the CET in 2011. He was appointed
Vice President of Corporate Legal and Acting in 2008 and is responsible for corporate President, Global Affairs in 2017, with
Head of Governance, Ethics and Compliance. development and strategic planning. Previously, responsibility for the Group’s strategic approach
Prior to GSK, James was a solicitor at Clifford he was Senior Vice President, Northern Europe to reputation, policy development and stakeholder
Chance and DLA. He holds a law degree from with responsibility for GSK’s pharmaceutical engagement.
University of East Anglia and a Diploma in businesses in that region and, prior to that, Previously, Phil was Senior Vice President,
Competition Law from Kings College. He is he was Senior Vice President for Central and Communications and Government Affairs.
qualified as a solicitor in England and Wales, Eastern Europe. He joined GSK in 1994.
and is an attorney at the New York State Bar. David was appointed Chairman of the Board Phil is Chairman of The Whitehall & Industry
Group and a Board Member of the China–Britain
of ViiV Healthcare Limited in 2011 and a
Nick Hirons Business Council. He earned his degree in
Non-Executive Director of the Aspen Pharmacare
Senior Vice President, Global Ethics English, History and Russian Studies from
Holdings Limited Board in 2015. He has a
and Compliance Durham University.
Bachelor of Science degree from Bristol
Nick was appointed to the CET in 2014 as Senior University and is a Chartered Accountant.
Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance, Regis Simard
responsible for compliance, risk management, President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain
corporate security and investigations.
Regis joined the CET in 2018, when he became
Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an International
President, Pharmaceuticals Supply Chain.
Auditor. He was later Head of Audit & Assurance,
He is responsible for the manufacturing and
where he combined five audit functions into an
supply of GSK’s pharmaceutical products.
independent team with a common risk-based
He also leads Quality and Environment, Health,
methodology. In 2013, Nick relocated to China
Safety and Sustainability at a corporate level. * S imon Dingemans will step down from the
to establish a governance model for our China
CET on 31 March 2019 and Iain Mackay
business that created a consistent approach Regis joined GSK in 2005 as Site Director
will take formal responsibility as CFO from
to compliance. at Notre Dame de Bondeville, rising to become
1 April 2019.
Senior Vice President of Global Pharmaceuticals
Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute
Manufacturing before his current role. Previously, Luc Debruyne, Dan Troy and Sir Patrick
of Management Accountants.
he held senior positions at Sony, Konica Minolta Vallance were members of the CET before
and Tyco Healthcare. He is a member of the leaving the company in December 2018,
Board for ViiV Healthcare. He is a mechanical January 2019 and March 2018 respectively.
engineer and holds an MBA.72
GSK Annual Report 2018
Leadership and effectiveness
Corporate governance framework
The Board has established a corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities. The framework is
designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and to provide a platform to realise the Group’s strategy through GSK’s
long-term priorities of Innovation, Performance and Trust, that is consistent with its culture, values and expectations. Our internal control and
risk management arrangements, described on pages 87 to 88 and 34 to 36, are an integral part of our governance framework.
For the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established as set out below.
Board
Chief Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Corporate
Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility
Officer Committee
Corporate
Executive
R ead more R ead more Read more Read more Read more
Team on page 77 on page 79 on page 96 on page 91 on page 92
See GSK.com for terms of reference for each Board Committee.
Scheduled Board and Committee attendance during 2018
Corporate
Board Nominations Audit & Risk Remuneration Science Responsibility
Total number of scheduled meetings 6 6 6 5 3 5
Members Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended
Philip Hampton 6 6
Emma Walmsley 6
Simon Dingemans 6
Dr Hal Barron 6
Vindi Banga 6 6 6 5
Dr Vivienne Cox 6 5 4
Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 5
Dr Laurie Glimcher 6 6 3
Dr Jesse Goodman 6 3 5
Judy Lewent 6 6 6 5 3
Urs Rohner 6 5
Sir Patrick Vallance
Stepped down on 31 March 2018 2 (2)
Professor Sir Roy Anderson
Retired on 3 May 2018 3 (3) 2 (2) 2 (2)
Number of ad-hoc meetings 37 3 6 6 3 1
For Directors who served for part of the year, the numbers in brackets denote the number of meetings the Directors were eligible to attend.
See the Committee Reports for other attendees at Committee meetings, such as the Chairman, CEO and other Executive Directors, and the work of the Committees
during the year. These reports are included later in the Corporate Governance Report.73
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2018 Board programme
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company and has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for
ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets. In the performance of these duties, it has
regard to the interests of other key stakeholders and is cognisant of the potential impact of the decisions it makes. The Board discharges
those responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings and during the year it focused on a number of specific areas outlined in
the table, in line with its long-term IPT priorities underpinned by a continuing shift in culture. In addition, during the year the CEO met with
Non-Executive Directors to discuss various matters, including the progress on the company’s strategy, succession planning and continuing
regulatory investigations.
Areas of focus Long-term priorities link
Strategy The Board’s oversight of the execution of our strategy included:
– Receiving and discussing reports from our three principal businesses: Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and I P T C
Consumer Healthcare
– Receiving IPT transformation programme I P T C
– Scrutinising and approving new R&D strategy I P T C
– Holding joint Board and Corporate Executive Team strategy day to discuss IPT priorities against external landscape
I P T C
changes, business performance, competitors and governance arrangements
– Scrutinising and approving major Consumer deals with Novartis, Pfizer and Unilever I P T C
– Scrutinising and approving an oncology deal to purchase Tesaro I P T C
– Receiving and discussing reports on our pensions, insurance, tax and treasury strategies P T C
Performance The Board’s focus on performance included:
– Evaluating the CEO’s 2017 performance and setting her 2018 objectives I P T C
– Setting, reviewing and agreeing the annual budget and forward looking three year plan P T C
– Receiving reports from the CEO on our three principal businesses I P T C
– Scrutinising the Group’s financial performance P T C
– Approving a major Group restructuring plan I P T C
– Reviewing our digital, data and analytics capabilities and opportunities I P T C
Governance The Board’s approach to discharging its corporate governance duties included:
– Receiving reports from Board Committees T C
– Approving the 2017 Annual Report T C
– Reviewing AGM preparation and approving the 2018 Notice of AGM and a General Meeting to approve the
T C
transaction with Novartis
– Considering observations and agreeing actions from the independent external evaluation of the Board’s performance T C
– Receiving reports on corporate governance and regulatory developments T C
– Approving appointment of new auditor T C
– Undertaking training on GSK’s Code of Conduct and Anti-bribery and corruption T C
– Approving the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer I P T C
Cultural The Head of HR briefed the Board on:
transformation
– Aligning GSK’s culture and values to support our strategy and long-term priorities P T C
Engagement The Board’s regard for stakeholder impacts included:
– Reviewing and approving a new Trust framework that has been set in the context of external trends and stakeholder
T C
expectations
– Receiving regular external stakeholder development reports T C
– Approving the evolution of our approach and changes to medical engagement with key external experts I P T C
– Designating Dr Vivienne Cox as Workforce Engagement Director to gather the views of the Group’s workforce I P T C
Link to long-term priorities Innovation I Performance P Trust T Culture C74
GSK Annual Report 2018
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Key Board roles and responsibilities
Leadership Independent oversight and rigorous challenge
Chairman Non-Executive Directors
Philip Hampton
– Provide a strong independent element to the Board
– Leads and manages the business of the Board – Constructively support and challenge management
– Provides direction and focus and scrutinise their performance in meeting agreed
– Ensures clear structure for effective operation of the deliverables
Board and its Committees – Shape proposals on strategy and management
– Sets Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is – Each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms
allocated to promote effective debate to support sound and conditions of their directorship
decision making – Devote such time as is necessary to the proper
– Ensures the Board receives precise, timely and clear performance of their duties
information – Are expected to attend all meetings as required.
– Meets with each Non-Executive Director on an annual
Independence statement
basis to discuss individual contributions and performance,
together with training and development needs The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors
– Shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the Board who are identified on pages 68 to 70 to be independent.
evaluation process They each demonstrate an appropriate degree of
– Meets with all the Non-Executive Directors independently independence in character and judgement and are free
of the Executive Directors from any business or other relationship which could
– Maintains a dialogue with shareholders on the governance materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
of the company. The independence and commitment of Lynn Elsenhans
and Judy Lewent, who have served on the Board for over
The Chairman’s role description is available on GSK.com
six years, has been subjected to a rigorous review.
Chief Executive Officer
Emma Walmsley Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Vindi Banga
– Is responsible for the management of the Group and its
three businesses – Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted
– Develops the Group’s strategic direction for consideration intermediary for other Directors
and approval by the Board – Together with the Non-Executive Directors, leads the
– Implements the agreed strategy annual review of the Chairman’s performance, taking
– Is supported by members of the Corporate Executive into account views of the Executive Directors
Team – Discusses the results of the Chairman’s effectiveness
– Maintains a continual and active dialogue with review with the Chairman
shareholders in respect of the company’s performance. – Leads the search and appointment process and
recommendation to the Board of a new Chairman
The Chief Executive Officer’s role description is available on GSK.com – Acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders
– In doing so, maintains an understanding of the issues and
concerns of major shareholders through briefings from the
Investor Relations team and the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role description is
available on GSK.com
Company Secretary – Secretary to the Board and all Board Committees
Victoria Whyte – Supports the Board and Committee Chairs in annual agenda planning
– Ensures information is made available to the Board members in a timely fashion
– Supports the Chairman in designing and delivering Board inductions
– Coordinates continuing business awareness and training requirements for the Non-Executive Directors
– Undertakes internal Board and Committee evaluations at the request of the Chairman
– Advises the Directors on Board practice and procedures and corporate governance matters
– Chairs the Group’s Disclosure Committee
– Is a point of contact for shareholders on corporate governance matters.75
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Board induction and development
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing and Board, business and key stakeholder awareness
facilitating individual induction programmes for new Directors.
They are designed with the purpose of orientating and familiarising To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain
new Directors with our industry, organisation, governance and our a greater insight and understanding of the business and key
long-term IPT priorities. stakeholders, they:
New CET members meet with Board members as part of their – are invited to attend internal management meetings, including
induction, and to ensure the Board maintains its connections meetings of the CET;
with the CET.
– meet employees informally during visits to the Group’s operations
Induction and at receptions held with staff around Board meetings;
– receive monthly investor relations and stakeholder reports to
Each new Director receives a general induction, which includes
maintain awareness of investor and stakeholder views and
their duties and responsibilities as a Director of a listed company,
competitors’ performance and strategy; and
the company’s Corporate Governance structure and undertaking
training on GSK’s Code of Conduct. A personalised induction is – measure progress in implementing our long-term IPT priorities and
then devised which is individually tailored to each new Director’s evolving our culture through an all-employee survey undertaken
background, education, experience and role. every six months and through reports on the regular conversations
the CET has directly with the workforce through the Let’s Talk
The induction programme for Executive Directors normally includes
programme.
an explanation of the role of an Executive Director, if appropriate,
building relationships with the Chairman, Board and the CET and Training
arranging to fill any capability gaps the new Director may have.
The Chairman meets with each Director annually on a one-to-one
The Chief Financial Officer Designate’s induction programme was
basis to discuss his or her continuing training and development
tailored for Iain Mackay, a highly experienced global CFO, and
requirements. The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory
commenced when he joined the Board in January 2019. It includes
and governance matters through regular papers and briefings
the following features:
from the Company Secretary and presentations by internal and
– familiarisation with the industry and GSK; external advisers.
– introduction to the Finance organisation and GSK’s financial During 2018, the Board members undertook and completed training
structure; and on GSK’s Code of Conduct and Anti-bribery and corruption.
– introduction to senior management, other CET members and
advisors to the company.
The induction programme for Non-Executive Directors normally
includes introductory meetings with members of the CET and other
senior executives to explain the company’s business and financial
structure, the commercial and regulatory environment in which we
operate, our competitors and an investor’s perspective.
Visits to our business operations are also a feature of Non-Executive
and Executive Directors’ induction programmes.76
GSK Annual Report 2018
Leadership and effectiveness continued
2018 Internal evaluation of the Board The 2018 Board and Committees evaluation process was conducted
internally by the Company Secretary who:
The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and the
– interviewed each Director with a small number of focused
performance of its Committees every year which is facilitated
questions;
externally every third year. The progress of the Board against
the outcomes of the 2017 external evaluation, which was – drew all the responses together from the information gathered
facilitated by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation, and discussed the outcomes and recommendations with the
is disclosed below. Chairman; and
– following discussion with the Board as a whole, identified areas
of focus and improvement for the Board which are set out below.
Further improvements and areas of focus for the Board were
identified and are set out below.
Board performance action points for 2019
Further improvements Areas of focus for 2019
– Succession planning for the Board The SID is running the search process for the next Chairman supported by a
global executive search firm. Attendance at the Nominations Committee for this
process has been expanded to include all Non-Executive Directors. Further details
are set out on page 78.
The Nominations Committee has also been progressing the search for a
successor for Judy Lewent, the Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee.
– Oversight of R&D and pipeline revival and key business development The Board will continue to monitor the performance of R&D and the pipeline
transactions, and the proposed Consumer Healthcare joint venture and the integration and operation of the key business development transactions
with Pfizer including: Tesaro, 23andMe, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. It will also be
reviewing and overseeing arrangements for the proposed Consumer Healthcare
joint venture with Pfizer.
– Building Board relationships and culture in line with the CEO’s culture Continuing the evolution of the Board’s culture and building relationships as the
work across the Group membership has changed is an important area of focus especially with the
impending Chairman succession.
– Further enhancing the Board’s decision-making and ways of working Opportunities to further enhance the Board’s decision-making and ways of
working will continue to be considered to ensure that the Board can operate as
effectively as possible.
2018 Board performance
Progress against the conclusions of the 2017 Board evaluation review is set out below.
Areas of focus for 2018 Progress/Achievements
– A review of R&D strategy following the appointment of the new The Board reviewed and approved Dr Hal Barron’s new approach to R&D which
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D was announced with the company’s Q2 results. The new approach focused on
science relating to the immune system, the use of genetics and investments in
advanced technologies.
– Enhancing the Board’s focus and decision making by agreeing The Board agreed clear priorities for focus during 2018 and was pleased
its clear priorities to focus on each year to have achieved them.
– Succession planning at senior executive and Board level The Board reviewed Executive and Non-Executive Director succession planning,
and succession processes are continuing to replace the Audit & Risk Committee
Chair. Following the Chairman’s decision to step down from the Board, the SID
is leading the succession process for the Chairman, in collaboration with the
Non-Executive Directors. Further details on Chairman succession are set out
on page 78.
– Building Board relationships and culture in line with the CEO’s The Board was especially busy in 2018, but continues to build relationships and
culture work across the Group evolve its culture as its membership changes.77
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Nominations Committee report
Dear Shareholder
Philip Hampton In the last few years, the Committee has been thoughtful in its
approach to refreshing the Board and replacing retiring directors.
Nominations Committee Chair
More recently, the Committee has supported Emma Walmsley since
her appointment as CEO in 2017 in her refreshment of the senior
Role leadership team to drive the delivery of her IPT priorities for the
long-term benefit of shareholders, patients and our other key
The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board:
stakeholders.
– the structure, size and composition of the Board and
the appointment of Directors, members to the Board Executive management succession
Committees and the CET
In my Committee report last year, I shared insights on the recruitment
– succession to the Board and the CET. of several key senior executive appointments. This included Dr Hal
Barron, who joined the Board as Chief Scientific Officer and
President, R&D on 1 January 2018 to bring a fresh approach to our
Membership
R&D business. This process has continued this year and reflects
Committee members Committee member since positively both on a strong pipeline of top talent in the organisation
Philip Hampton – Chair from 27 January 2015 27 January 2015 and, also, the ability to attract high-quality external hires to bring new
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 perspectives and approaches from outside the business.
Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 Iain Mackay joined the Board from HSBC, to be our next Chief
Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 Financial Officer when Simon Dingemans (our current CFO) steps
Urs Rohner 1 January 2017 down from the Board as planned in May 2019. Our CFO succession
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 until process is described in more detail below.
3 May 2018
When Simon informed the Board of his intention to leave the
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are given in company, the Committee engaged Egon Zehnder, which specialises
their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 68 to 70. See page 72 in the recruitment of high-calibre executives, to carry out a targeted
for Committee member attendance levels. internal and external search for his successor. The Committee
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee compiled a role profile for the next CFO which set out the desired
and attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee skills.
meetings may include: In the Committee’s view, a potential successor to Simon would
require a strong technical grasp of reporting, internal controls,
Regular Attends as
Attendees attendee required and cost and capital discipline. He/she would be familiar with
Chief Executive Officer ✓ international long cycle businesses, M&A execution and, though
not essential, an understanding of manufacturing and R&D. Finally,
Head of Human Resources ✓
a successor should be an effective business partner to the CEO,
Appropriate external advisers ✓
a proven communicator with shareholders and possess a strong
set of personal values.
Advisory services Egon Zehnder initiated a thorough global search against this agreed
During the year, Egon Zehnder provided recruitment profile which yielded a pool of candidates, which was then reduced
consultancy services to the Committee, in addition to to a shortlist of several potential internal and external candidates.
recruitment and HR services which they provide to the These shortlisted candidates met and were subsequently interviewed
company. The Committee supports the engagement of by the company’s Audit & Risk Committee Chair, the CEO, the
executive search firms, such as Egon Zehnder, who have Remuneration Committee Chair and me, and our feedback on each
signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender candidate was compiled. The Committee also received the CEO’s
diversity and best practice. Egon Zehnder is also one of the analysis of the candidates and that of the Head of HR. The process
13 executive search firms to be accredited in 2018 under the culminated with the Committee meeting to agree a recommendation
Enhanced Code of Conduct, by meeting exacting performance to the Board that Mr Iain Mackay be appointed the next CFO. The
criteria and best practice standards in gender-balanced recommendation received unanimous Board approval. On 7 August
selection for FTSE 350 boards. 2018, it was announced that Iain would join the Board as an
Executive Director with effect from 14 January 2019.
The Board was pleased to welcome Iain to GSK. He is a proven
CFO of a complex, regulated global bank, from his eight years as
Group Finance Director at HSBC. He brings tremendous finance
experience from different sectors from his time at HSBC, General
Electric, Schlumberger Dowell and Price Waterhouse where he
trained. He is a strong leader with a track record of driving cost,
cash and capital allocation discipline to deliver the strategy.
In addition to the new CFO, the Committee has also reviewed the
following internal senior executive appointments to the CET.78
GSK Annual Report 2018
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Nominations Committee report continued
James Ford was appointed SVP, General Counsel on 1 August Progress towards our female Board representation and combined
2018, succeeding Dan Troy who had performed the role at GSK Executive Committee and Direct Reports targets of at least 33%
for 10 years. James was previously SVP and General Counsel for by 2020 was published in the FTSE Women Leaders 2018 report,
Global Pharma. Through his 23-year career with GSK, he has which is reproduced below:
gained wide-ranging legal experience including investigations, Female Representation as at 30 June 2018
complex corporate transactions and litigation in senior roles across
Combined Executive
the US, Asia and the UK. 2018 Report Female Committee and Direct
Representation Metrics Board Reports
Roger Connor was appointed President, Vaccines on 1 September
2020 FTSE 100 target 33.0% 33.0%
2018 succeeding Luc Debruyne, who in the last five years of his
GSK 45.5% (2017 – 41.7%) 32.5% (2017 – 25.7%)
27 year career at GSK had been President, Vaccines. Roger has
been on the CET since 2012 as President, Global Manufacturing FTSE 100 average 30.2% (2017 – 27.7%) 27.0% (2017 – 25.2%)
& Supply and led the strategic transformation of GSK’s supply chain FTSE 100 highest 50.0% (2017 – 44.4%) 47.0% (2017 – 47.0%)
to support improved quality and supply performance. He has a
As at the date of this Report we have 41.7% women on our Board
proven track record of leading a complex, global organisation,
(2017 – 38%) and 21% women on our Corporate Executive Team
developing organisational capability and driving cultural
(2017 – 21%).
transformation.
Our female Board representation will return to 45.5% when Simon
Regis Simard was appointed President, Pharmaceutical Supply
Dingemans steps down from the Board on 8 May 2019.
Chain on 1 September 2018. Regis was previously SVP, Global
Pharma Manufacturing and joined GSK in 2005 as a site director Closing this gap between the Board and CET gender representation
in France, having in the past worked in the electronics, medical and further increasing the pipeline of female direct reports to the
devices and pharmaceutical industries. CET to achieve our 2020 target, is a particular area of attention.
We are pleased that good progress has been made, such that at this
Diana Conrad has been appointed to succeed Claire Thomas
stage we are now almost in line with our 2020 target on combined
as SVP, HR from 1 April 2019 to lead the HR function.
executive committee and direct reports. The representation of
Board composition and diversity women in management positions at GSK is illustrated on page 28,
as part of the gender diversity of GSK’s global workforce.
The Board has sought to balance its composition and that of its
We are in line with the Parker Report’s recommendation.
Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so that
they can benefit from the experience of longer serving Directors, I have decided to step down from the Board. Our SID, Vindi Banga,
and the fresh external perspectives and insights from newer recent is leading the process to identify my successor. More details are
appointees. given below.
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries
Chairman succession: A search process for the next Chairman
and backgrounds, including the pharmaceuticals industry and R&D,
is underway supported by a global executive search firm. The next
vaccines, consumer products and healthcare, medical research and
Chairman will oversee delivery of the next phase of the company’s
academia, and insurance and financial services, and have a wealth
strategy, continuing to strengthen the pharmaceutical business
of experience of complex organisations with global reach. Many of
whilst demerging the consumer business formed through the
our Board members have experience of long-cycle industries, which
integration of the Pfizer business with that of GSK. A specification
is of assistance in understanding the industry in which we operate.
has been agreed covering the key skills, experience and personal
We are committed to the diversity of our Boardroom just as GSK characteristics deemed desirable for the role and we are also
is committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at all levels engaging with shareholders to gather their views. The selection
of the organisation. The Board and management seek to encourage committee for this process has been expanded to include all
a diverse and inclusive culture throughout GSK. Non-Executive Directors.
A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises a Vindi Banga
range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and Senior Independent Director
independence, with individuals who are prepared to challenge each
other and work as a team. This needs to be backed by a diversity of
Committee evaluation
personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound judgement,
honesty and courage. The Committee’s annual evaluation exercise was internally facilitated
The Committee is responsible for developing measurable objectives by the Company Secretary, who interviewed Committee members on
to support the implementation of the Board’s diversity policy, behalf of the Committee Chair. It was concluded that the Committee
including gender, and monitoring progress towards the achievement continued to operate effectively. In terms of enhancements, the
of these objectives. Our diversity policy is in line with the measurable Committee would seek to augment its appointment process
targets set out in the: for the appointment of scientific and financial experts by co-opting
subject matter experts to advise the Committee.
– Hampton-Alexander Review to increase the number of women
in senior leadership positions in all FTSE 350 companies; and
Philip Hampton
– Parker Review Commission’s report ‘Beyond One by ‘21’ to
Nominations Committee Chair
increase ethnic diversity appointments on the boards of FTSE
100 companies. 11 March 201979
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Accountability
Audit & Risk Committee report
Dear Shareholder
Judy Lewent In the following pages of this report we aim to share insights into the
Audit & Risk Committee Chair activities undertaken or overseen by the Committee during the year.
The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured
programme of activities. I devise this programme with the Company
Role Secretary and agree its content with management and the external
The Committee reviews and is responsible for: auditor at the start of each year. It is then adapted as appropriate
as the year progresses.
– financial and internal reporting processes
Financial reporting
– the integrity of the financial statements, including the
Annual Report and quarterly results announcements
The integrity of the financial statements, including the Annual Report
– the system of internal controls and quarterly results announcements, is a key focus for the
Committee. This includes the Committee’s assessment of the
– identification and management of risks and external and
effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting.
internal audit processes
The Committee reviewed, at least quarterly, the company’s significant
– initiating audit tenders, the selection and appointment of accounting matters, including contingent consideration liabilities,
external auditor, setting their remuneration and exercising revenue recognition and accruals for returns and rebates,
oversight of their work. restructuring, tax and accounting for significant transactions,
as well as the impact of changes to accounting standards.
Membership The Committee’s position has always been to aim for clear and
transparent financial disclosure in GSK’s financial reporting and
Committee members Committee member since
to support a proactive approach that is in step with or ahead of
Judy Lewent – Chair from 1 January 2013 1 April 2011
guidance and requirements from regulators. In line with prior years,
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016
the Committee continued to review compliance with the latest
Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 guidance and endorsed management proposals to further improve
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017 disclosures particularly around the use of Alternative Performance
Measures in GSK’s 2018 preliminary results and the Annual Report.
Details of the Committee members’ financial, accounting or scientific
experience and expertise are given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ External auditor
on pages 69 and 70. See page 72 for Committee member attendance
levels.
After a competitive tender exercise Deloitte LLP were appointed
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and the company’s new auditor at the 2018 AGM, replacing
attends all meetings. The entire Board is invited to attend the PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, after a smooth transition exercise
Committee meetings and other attendees include: with minimal disruption to the business. I have maintained a strong
working relationship with the new audit partner throughout the
Regular Attends as
Attendee attendee required transition and during the 2018 audit process. Management and
General Counsel ✓ Deloitte have also worked closely together, so that Deloitte could
develop a deep understanding of GSK’s business that it could bring
Group Financial Controller ✓
to bear during the 2018 Group audit. We have welcomed the new
Head of Audit & Assurance ✓
perspectives and the challenge that Deloitte has brought to the audit.
Head of Global Ethics and Compliance ✓ We are also pleased to have observed further improvements in audit
Chief Medical Officer ✓ quality and efficiencies that have resulted from Deloitte’s deployment
Chief Product Quality Officer ✓ of data analytics.
External auditor ✓
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Council’s UK
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has determined
that Judy Lewent has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has also agreed that she has the appropriate
qualifications and background to be an audit committee
financial expert as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, and has determined that she is independent within the
meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
The Committee has, as a whole, competence relevant to the
sector in which the company operates.80
GSK Annual Report 2018
Accountability continued
Audit & Risk Committee report continued
Internal framework for control and risk Enterprise risk framework and strategies: During the year, the
management developments Committee considered GSK’s Enterprise risks and the strategies
to address them. These reviews were undertaken through:
This is another core area of focus for the Committee. In 2018, the – annual business unit risk and assurance update reports;
following developments in Global Ethics and Compliance (GEC), the
– enterprise risk strategy papers for each of our most significant
business units, and across the enterprise, continued to strengthen
risks;
our controls and culture of compliance and risk management.
Technology user access controls: As part of the Committee’s – annual risk reviews contained in the Risk Management & Internal
Control Report which is presented by the Head of GEC.
role in assessing the effectiveness of the internal controls over
financial reporting, certain technology systems and the associated As part of its review, the Committee assesses whether the key
infrastructure were identified for further focus and consideration Enterprise risks affecting the unit are being managed and mitigated in
by the Committee especially around user access management. a proportionate way. The Committee examines whether it is satisfied
Throughout the year, the Committee closely monitored the Group’s with the control environment, its operation and effectiveness and
plans to address the control findings identified. In addition, a further whether refinements that management propose (to ensure the
programme was implemented and completed in 2018 to identify and environment remains fit for purpose) are appropriate. It also assesses
validate the additional layers of controls the Group has established the commitment of the business unit’s leadership to maintain a strong
to mitigate this risk area, as well as some further enhancements to controls culture.
these controls.
Each business reported on key Internal Control Framework (ICF)
Enterprise risk management enhancements: The Committee improvements and simplification activities to further improve how
has also overseen the launch of a new Enterprise risk management we manage risks. These are summarised below.
(ERM) cycle, which provides an end-to-end approach to planning,
Pharmaceuticals: An overall Pharmaceuticals Leadership Team
mitigation and reporting of key Enterprise risks:
Risk Management and Compliance Board (RMCB) was established,
– introducing Enterprise risk plans (ERP) for each business, and providing an improved governance structure better aligned to the
the Global support function, which set out its risk appetite and organisation and strengthening connections between the regional
tolerance, the expected controls, mitigation actions and and country RMCBs. In addition, the Distributor Control Framework
monitoring. The Risk Oversight Compliance Council approves was designed and implemented by Export Markets, simplifying
and the Committee reviews executive summaries of these ERPs; management monitoring and enabling our third-party audits to focus
on high risk distributors. The General Manager confirmation process
– a controlled process of adaptions for ERPs has been established
continued to be a key focus with targeted discussions at RMCBs, a
to achieve an appropriate balance between managing Enterprise
better understanding of global mitigation actions, and accountability
risks on a consistent basis, while providing a measure of risk-
for local control efforts. In addition, a Site Director confirmation was
based flexibility for various parts of the organisation where justified;
run for the first time in 2018 with the End 2 End supply chain review.
– making Enterprise risk reports more data-focused to generate
Vaccines: Comprehensive risk reviews were carried out for key
more informed discussion of risk exposure and mitigation; and
assets such as Shingrix and Bexsero. The GEC Independent
– the Committee agreed to separate Information protection into Business Monitoring team also conducted its first review of Vaccines
two separate Enterprise risks – Information security and Privacy. focusing on high risk areas primarily within commercial, medical
Privacy: During the year, the Privacy Centre of Excellence delivered and external R&D, with confirmation that controls are working as
a change programme to improve and sustainably manage GSK’s intended. Monitoring of sites through the corporate Environment,
data privacy compliance, whilst ensuring compliance with the Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHSS) Assurance Group was also
General Data Protection Regulation that became law in May 2018. established and an R&D mapping exercise was performed to
This included: evaluate the need for IBM in key business activities. No gaps were
identified, and the next verification exercise is planned for 2019.
– the implementation of a new control framework;
Consumer Health: Key risk themes from monitoring and audit
– remediation of certain existing business activities, including
findings were reviewed to identify high risk areas for enhanced risk
adopting privacy controls, such as privacy contract terms, written
management and low risk areas for clearer guidance and policy
records of processing activities, and data protection impact
simplification. An improved management monitoring toolkit was
assessments; and
developed as well as a new tool assessing country risk, incorporating
– a comprehensive training programme to drive greater expertise, culture, commercial and qualitative criteria.
awareness and accountability for managing personal information
across the entire organisation.
Further details on our approach to data privacy issues is given on
page 31.81
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Audit & Risk Committee report continued
Emerging risks: For a number of years the Committee has been The A&A team has conducted 18 Values Assurance Reviews (VARs)
considering emerging risks at each scheduled meeting. This year, during 2018 to test how well our values and expectations are
these discussions were enhanced by the results of the Audit & embedded in the organisation. These have identified follow up
Assurance (A&A) team’s Political, Economic, Social, Technological, action areas including: creating an environment where people are
Legal and Environmental (PESTLE) external analysis of emerging comfortable to speak up; continuing to develop managers’ leadership
risks. The Committee is also examining the leveraging of new capabilities; addressing perceptions of complexity and continuing
technology and risk scanning services to better support identification to drive simplification efforts; and raising awareness of GSK’s
of emerging risks. expectations and what they mean in the context of an employee’s
roles.
Written standards: During 2018 a review of GSK’s most important,
global written standards has been undertaken to further simplify GEC has continued to focus on people development and building
and harmonise written standards and controls to make them easier capabilities, including:
to access and understand.
Ethics and Compliance Academy: A Virtual Academy run on a
Monitoring and compliance activities quarterly basis.
Anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC): The ABAC training strategy
Monitoring is a key element of our ICF. It provides a continuous
evolved to provide tailored and targeted modules based on
source of insights that inform improvements in the control environment
employees’ roles and responsibilities, with a particular emphasis
and there was significant focus by each of our businesses in this
on further enhancing the skills of those who conduct high risk
area in 2018. This included consolidated and streamlined business
business activities on behalf of the company.
monitoring and improved coordination between Enterprise risk
owners, businesses and monitoring groups. In addition, a new Travel Privacy certification: The privacy function offered a globally
and Expenses system was implemented with control enhancements recognized professional privacy certification from the International
utilising artificial intelligence and enhanced data analytics. Association of Privacy Professionals.
During 2018, GEC introduced an Early Case Assessment phase Code of Conduct: The annual mandatory training on our Code
to its investigation process. This empowers an investigator to quickly of Conduct was delivered in two parts and focused on living our
determine the most appropriate action, improve the quality of the values and expectations and ABAC. This was supplemented by
investigation and ensure a more productive use of resources. the introduction of microlearning modules that can be taken at
any time.
The Investigations team have sought to further increase trust in
our Speak Up channel arrangements by updating processes to Committee evaluation
promote better quality decision making and improved monitoring
of lead indicators. In addition, the Investigations training and The Committee’s annual evaluation was internally facilitated by
education programme has been improved with more investigation the Company Secretary who interviewed Committee members on
work performed in-house. This has resulted in a significant reduction behalf of the Committee Chair. It was concluded that the Committee
in the cost of external support. In 2018, a further 70 HR, Compliance continued to operate effectively. In terms of enhancements, it was
and Legal based employees have been trained in investigative agreed to continue:
interviewing techniques. – the good progress made during 2018 in ensuring Committee
GSK Values & Expectations papers are concise and accessible to facilitate productive
discussion; and
These are a high priority for the Committee. During the year, a range – to work with the Nominations Committee on succession planning
of employee resources were introduced to promote awareness, for the Committee Chair and for Board and Committee members
help facilitate discussions and bring values and expectations to life with financial experience.
for employees. These resources included Living our Values and
Expectations discussion guides, expectations descriptors and
Let’s Talk channels. In April 2018, GEC updated GSK’s Code
of Conduct to make it shorter, simpler and easier to use.
Judy Lewent
Audit & Risk Committee Chair
11 March 201982
GSK Annual Report 2018
Accountability continued
What the Committee did during 2018
Areas of Committee focus Items discussed Frequency
Financial – Reviewed integrity of draft financial statements, appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern A
reporting assumptions
– Considered approval process for confirming and recommending to the Board that the 2017 Annual Report A
is fair, balanced and understandable
– Reviewed and recommended to the Board approval of the 2017 Annual Report and Form 20-F A
– Reviewed and approved Directors’ expenses A
– Reviewed and recommended approval of quarterly and preliminary results announcements, dividends Q
and earnings guidance
– Reviewed significant issues in relation to the quarterly and preliminary results Q
– Reviewed and recommended inclusion of the Viability Statement in the 2017 Annual Report A
– Reviewed the financial reporting framework and disclosure arrangements A
– Reviewed major restructuring reports Q
– Reviewed accounting developments and their impacts as well as key accounting issues P
External – Canvassed observations of the outgoing Audit Partner on the company, the Committee and the Finance organisations S
auditor – Reviewed and approved audit/non-audit expenditure incurred during 2017 A
– Considered the auditor’s report on the 2017 annual results A
– Performed evidence-based assessment of external auditor and the effectiveness of 2017 external audit A
– Considered qualifications, expertise and independence of the external auditor A
– Recommended to the Board the appointment of Deloitte and for the Committee to agree auditor’s remuneration A
– Approved the 2018 audit plan and fee proposal and set performance expectations for auditor for the year A
– Considered non-audit services fees for 2018 and the 2019 audit budget A
– Considered initial results of 2018 external audit P
– Considered internal control over financial reporting A
Global internal – Reviewed assurance reports from Global Pharmaceuticals (including R&D and ViiV Healthcare), Vaccines A
control and Consumer Healthcare, as well as the Global Support functions
& compliance – Reviewed GSK’s internal control framework and controls over financial reporting A
– Reviewed Technology access controls and closely monitored plans to address control findings identified P
and the programme to validate mitigation
– Confirmed compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act A
– Received independent external evaluation outcomes of Audit & Assurance P
– Reviewed Audit & Assurance work during 2017 and approved the planned work for 2018 A
– Reviewed the US Corporate Integrity Agreement P
– Reviewed implementation of the enhancements to the Healthcare professional engagement policy P
– Reviewed General Data Protection Regulation readiness and compliance P
– Received litigation reports and updates S
– Received reports on continuing investigations and on Anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC) issues S
Risk – Reviewed risk management framework compliance A
– Reviewed the risk elements of group treasury, pensions, risk and insurance and tax policies A
– Agreed a new approach to enterprise risk management P
– Received status reports on each of the company’s 11 Enterprise Risks (these Risks are disclosed on pages 34 and 35) P
– Received fraud, site security and cyber security risk assessment update P
– Received updates on the implications and planning for Brexit P
– Received Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) meeting updates S
– Considered emerging risks S
Governance and – Confirmed compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code A
other matters – Reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference and confirmed that they had been adhered to during 2018 A
– Received corporate governance updates P
– Reviewed the Committee’s performance and effectiveness A
– Reviewed and approved the Group’s Modern Slavery Act Statement P
– Reviewed the company’s gender pay gap disclosures A
– Met privately and separately with the Heads of Global Ethics & Compliance, Audit & Assurance, and the General Counsel P
– Met privately with the external auditor at the end of each meeting as appropriate S
Committee Activity Key A Annually Q Quarterly P Periodically S Standing83
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results contained in the 2018 Annual Report, the Committee
reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results. The Committee reviewed papers
prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues and the
judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 are set out in the following
table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. In addition, the Committee and the external auditor have
discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in
the Independent Auditor’s Report on pages 128 to 139.
Significant issues considered by the Committee
in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net
of the financial statements debt positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group. Following a review
of the risk and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the
going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for
and rebates (RAR) accruals customer returns and rebates. The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was
£4.4 billion at 31 December 2018 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been
made and concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the
process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 63.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external
investigations into the Group’s legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial
commercial practices practices. Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary
in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to
determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount. At 31 December 2018, the provision for legal matters
was £0.2 billion, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with
management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required. At 31 December 2018, a tax payable
liability of £1.2 billion, including provisions for uncertain tax positions, was recognised on the Group’s
balance sheet.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible
assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted management’s judgements on the intangible
assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of £134 million in 2018. See
Note 19 to the financial statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered management’s judgement that following the further improved sales
in relation to ViiV Healthcare performance of Tivicay and Triumeq it was necessary to increase the liability to pay contingent
consideration for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. At 31 December
2018, the Group’s balance sheet included a contingent consideration liability of £5.9 billion in relation
to ViiV Healthcare. See Note 39 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’ for
more details.
ViiV Healthcare put option The Committee reviewed and agreed the accounting for the Pfizer put option and concurred with
management’s judgement on the valuation of the put option of £1.2 billion at 31 December 2018.84
GSK Annual Report 2018
Accountability continued
Auditor’s appointment
External auditor Finally, the Committee considered feedback on the 2018 external
audit through a survey that sought views from the financial
Following an audit tender process conducted by the Committee management team at corporate and business unit level. It covered:
which concluded in December 2016, Deloitte’s appointment as
– effectiveness of challenge by the auditor, their integrity and
the auditor of the company and the Group was approved by
the transparency of their reporting to management and the
shareholders at the GSK AGM in May 2018. There were no
Committee;
contractual or similar obligations restricting the Group’s choice of
external auditor. – clarity of communication by the auditor and their ways of working;
Deloitte observed PricewaterhouseCoopers, (PwC) work as – alignment of the 2018 audit to the Group’s investment in SAP;
GSK’s previous statutory auditor during the 2017 year end auditing
– quality of the audit team’s leadership; and
process. A full report on the transition process between PwC
and Deloitte is included on pages 103 and 104 in GSK’s 2017 – skills and experience of the audit team.
Annual Report. Having reviewed all this feedback, and noted any areas of
The Committee considers that during 2018, the company has improvement to be implemented in respect of the team on the
complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit committee 2019 audit, the Committee:
responsibility provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority – was satisfied with the effectiveness of the auditor and the external
Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. audit process; and
Effectiveness and quality of external audit process – was satisfied with the auditor’s independence, qualifications,
objectivity, expertise and resources.
The Committee is committed to ensuring on an ongoing basis that
The Committee therefore recommended to the Board the re-
GSK receives a high quality and effective audit from its external
appointment of Deloitte at the forthcoming AGM.
auditor. In evaluating Deloitte’s performance during 2018, prior to
making a recommendation on their re-appointment in early 2019, the
Committee reviewed the effectiveness of their performance against
the criteria which it agreed, in conjunction with management, at the
beginning of 2018. The criteria are set out on page 85.
In undertaking this review, the Committee considered the overall
quality of the audit, the independence of Deloitte and whether they
have exhibited an appropriate level of challenge and scepticism in
their work. Because Deloitte had recently been appointed GSK’s
auditor, their length of tenure was not taken into account when
assessing their independence and objectivity.85
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Auditor’s appointment continued
The detailed criteria the Committee used for judging the effectiveness of Deloitte as the external auditor and their overriding responsibility
to deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit for 2018 are set out below:
Performance expectations for GSK’s external auditor 2018
Audit approach – Leverage a centrally controlled audit approach, ensuring that GSK’s group, joint ventures and local statutory entities were audited
and strategy once and once only
– Refine a consistent technology-led audit with enhanced risk assessment and analytical procedures, providing insights that combine
data trend analysis, process cycle pathways, and the identification of audit risks, ensuring a well-informed and efficient audit
– Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reflects local risks and materiality
High quality – Adhere to all independence policies (GSK’s, FRC’s 2016 Revised Ethical Standard and applicable SEC standards)
independent audit
– Maintain a relentless focus on audit quality and Deloitte’s internal quality control procedures
– Provide timely clarity on assessments of accounting treatments and ensure consistency of advice at all levels
– Maintain a forward-thinking approach by raising potential issues or concerns as soon as identified
– Provide timely up-to-date knowledge of technical and governance issues, including evolving market practice on the viability statement
requirements, ESMA/SEC guidelines and new IFRSs (i.e. IFRS 16)
– Serve as an industry resource, communicating best practice trends in reporting and integrated reporting
– Provide high quality and succession planning of key staff members of Deloitte and ensure their technical skillsets are continuously enhanced
Effective – Deliver a smooth running, thorough and efficiently executed audit by:
partnership
– Discussing approach and areas of focus in advance and early engagement on understanding the implications of the new operating model
– Ensuring SOX scope and additional procedures are discussed and endorsed by corporate management and communicated on a timely
basis within GSK and Deloitte
– Avoiding surprises through timely reporting of issues at all levels within the Group
– Early engagement on and provision of impact assessments of key judgements
– Ensuring clarity of roles and responsibilities between local Deloitte and Finance Services
– Responding to any issues raised by corporate management on a timely basis
– Meeting agreed deadlines
– Providing sufficient time for management to consider draft auditor reports and respond to requests and queries
– Consistent and timely communication and engagement between local and central audit teams, and across all GSK stakeholder groups
– Liaise with Audit & Assurance to avoid duplication of work and Global Ethics and Compliance to ensure a common understanding of audit
outcomes, adopting a collaborative approach to solving issues
– Ultimately provide a high-quality service to the Board, be scrupulous in their scrutiny of the Group and act with utmost integrity
Auditor – Ensure a seamless, effective, and efficient auditor transition from PwC to Deloitte by maximising the use of relevant information provided
transition by PwC in respect of the 2016 and 2017 audits of the company and its subsidiaries in relation to the audit of the Group’s consolidated
accounts
Value for – Work closely with management to agree on scope changes, overruns and efficiencies and set clear milestones for continuous monitoring
money
– Provide transparency of audit time and cost incurred analysis against budget, identifying areas that will enable reduction in audit hours
without compromising audit quality and commensurately reducing audit fees86
GSK Annual Report 2018
Accountability continued
Non-audit services
Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake Pre-approval: The category-wide pre-approval process reflects
non-audit services. the restrictions in the FRC’s 2016 Guidance on Audit Committees,
so that all non-audit services:
Where the external auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services
(such as audit-related, tax and other services), in accordance with – over £50,000 are pre-approved by the Committee Chairman
GSK’s policy contained in GSK’s Finance Manual, the Committee and CFO as delegated by the Committee;
ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded – between £25,000 and £50,000 are pre-approved by the
by requiring pre-approval by the Committee. Group Financial Controller; and
The following core policy guidelines on engaging the external auditor – under £25,000 are approved by a designate of the Group
to provide non-audit services are observed: Financial Controller.
– Process: ensuring all non-audit services over £50,000 are put Fees paid to the company’s auditor and its associates are set out
out to competitive tender with financial service providers other below. Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial statements,
than the external auditor, in line with the Group’s procurement ‘Operating profit’.
process, unless the skills and experience of the external auditor
make them the only suitable supplier of the non-audit service
under consideration;
Audit/non-audit services three year comparison graph (£m)
– Safeguards: ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that
the objectivity and independence of the Group audit are not
threatened or compromised; and 2018
1.93.9 26.2
Deloitte
– Fee cap: ensuring that the total fee levels do not exceed 50% of
the annual audit fee, except in special circumstances where there
would be a clear advantage in the company’s auditor undertaking
such additional work. 2 P0 w1 C7 1.9 27.7
The company’s current policy complies with the Financial Reporting
Council’s (FRC) 2016 Revised Ethical Standard and the EU Audit
Regulation and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The policy contains 2016 3.5 26.6
the following three guidelines: PwC
Fee cap: GSK’s policy cap of 50% of the annual audit fee cap is
more stringent than the FRC’s fees cap set at 70% of the average 0 10 20 30 40
fees for the preceding three-year period. Audit and assurance services
Prohibitions: GSK’s policy includes a ‘black list’ of prohibited Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and
treasury-related services
non-audit services.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
One of the key compliance requirements of a group’s financial Code of Conduct and reporting lines
statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and We also have a number of well-established policies, (including
understandable. The coordination and review of Group-wide a Code of Conduct), which are available on the Governance section
contributions into the Annual Report follows a well-established of our website, together with details of our confidential Speak Up
and documented process, which is performed in parallel with reporting lines for the reporting and investigation of unlawful
the formal process undertaken by the external auditor. conduct. An updated version of the Code of Conduct was last
published in April 2018.
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by
management in the preparation of GSK’s 2018 Annual Report
to ensure that it met the requirements of the FRC’s 2016 UK
Corporate Governance Code. This enabled the Committee, and
then the Board, to confirm that GSK’s 2018 Annual Report taken
as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the
information necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s
position and performance, business model and strategy.87
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Internal control framework
The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced A fit for purpose Framework, in conjunction with our corporate
and diligent assessment of GSK’s current position and prospects. values, expectations and Speak Up processes, ensures that the risks
The Board is accountable for evaluating and approving the associated with our business activities are actively and effectively
effectiveness of the internal controls, including financial, operational controlled in line with the agreed risk appetite. We believe the
and compliance controls, and risk management processes operated Framework provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against
by GSK. material misstatement or loss.
The Internal Control Framework (the Framework) is a comprehensive The Group’s Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC), a
enterprise-wide risk management model and the means by which team of senior leaders, is mandated by the Board to assist the
GSK ensures the reliability of financial reporting and compliance Committee in overseeing risk management and internal control
with laws and regulations. The Framework supports the continuous activities. It also provides the business with a framework for risk
process of the Board’s identification, evaluation and management of management and upward escalation of significant risks. Each
the Group’s Principal Risks, as required by the Financial Reporting business unit has a risk board structure which reports to the ROCC.
Council’s (FRC’s) UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code), and The business unit Risk Management and Compliance Boards
is designed to manage the risk of not achieving business objectives. (RMCBs) are responsible for promoting the local ‘tone from the top’
and risk culture, as well as ensuring effective oversight of internal
controls and risk management processes.
Each Principal Risk has an assigned risk owner who is a member
The Framework
of senior management. The risk owner is accountable for the
management of his/her respective Principal Risk, including the
Enterprise oversight
setting of risk mitigation plans, their implementation and for reporting
on the risk management approach and progress to the ROCC and
Independent assurance
the Committee every year. The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted
Independent business monitoring b ady vG anlo cb ina gl E rit sh kic ms aa nn ad
g
C emom enp tl i aa cn rc oe
s
s(G thE eC e),
n
w teh rpic rh
is
i es are ns dp fo on
r
s thib el e for
development of working practices that are risk-based and ethically
Disc i Ep nl fi on rce ea mn ed nt
B
R A ui ss ssk e is nsm een st
s
& W Cori ntt te ron
ls
Standards s a v
A
pao l rul
o
lu um
d
vn e
i
ie
t
dd s m
&
e. , G a sb
A
ne iE
s
ndr sC ds ut eo o ra
pa
fc c entt oh nciv me dee epol (y nAlr ygp
t&
wa ar Ao n sitm )i shs
,
u
o a ia
n
rtt ap e i lo nips nn
c
l ee i ect t o
w
ah
t
obi o ic
t
l hp sea e
e
l
a
lr nab na w ie ot aeh s
rg
a mi a rnv en i ao a ed ncu
d
arcr e gas o g
s
et r sh ud mur la a eo rn t
a
nu ic o
n
tg e n
c
ah s
e
nw e . dpin t h
l
ta
a
h
b no el ,ui n rg
o t P
ro ble
meR ssp
o n
ding
Activities Training B
T
thho eia
s
ir
r ad
os
vo
s
en
u
rs
rt
a
ih gne
hc
te
e
af f
h
ne
e
dc
l
t
p
aiv
s
de vsn
ie
se
n
os
i
rs
o
y
r
o
rm
ef sr ai ps nk
oa
ngm sea
im
bn ia
e
litg
n
iee
t
sm
a n
ie ndn
f
t
ut
ha lfiec
l
lr
B
ino
o
gs as
tr
ht dh
e
e
t o
G
G
m
ror eo ueu ptp
’
s.
MoM na in toa rg ine gment
Communication s
s
Ot tr
a
fa fikt cee ehg roi c
ald
no
e
db
r
sj te
h.
c eAt &i Cv Ae os
mh
a
a
mn sd
i
ta
tb
e
d
eu
u
.il ad li n reg
p
t oru rts int gw li it nh
e
p ia nt ti oe n thts
e
a Cn hd
i
eo ft h Fe inr
a ncial
The Committee receives regular reports from business units,
Principal Risk owners, GEC and A&A on areas of significant risk
to the Group and on related internal controls. These reports provide
an assessment on the internal control environment within each
The GSK values and
expectations
Principal Risk area, including enhancements to strengthen the
control environment. Following the consideration of these reports,
the Committee concludes on the effectiveness of the internal control
environment and reports to the Board annually. In accordance with
the FRC’s Code provisions, the Board, through the authority
delegated to the Committee, has conducted a robust assessment
of the Group’s Principal Risks. This includes the consideration of
the nature and extent of risk it is willing to take in achieving the
Group’s strategic objectives. The Board, through the Committee,
has maintained oversight to ensure the effectiveness of the internal
control environment and risk management processes in operation
across the Group for the whole year, and up to the date of the
approval of this Annual Report.88
GSK Annual Report 2018
Internal control framework continued
The Board’s review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries and A review of the Group’s risk management approach is further
does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures discussed in the ‘Risk management’ section of the Strategic report
or other investments, although it considers the risk of the company’s on pages 34 to 36. Our management of each Principal Risk is
participation in these activities. There are established procedures explained in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 241 to 250.
and controls in place to identify entities whose results must be The Group’s viability is discussed in the Group financial review
consolidated with the Group’s results. We believe the process section of the Strategic report on page 37.
followed by the Board, through the Committee, in reviewing regularly
the system of internal controls and risk management processes is
in accordance with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal
Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by
the FRC.
Governance structure of risk management
gnirotinom
rof
ytilibatnuoccA
Responsibility
for
implementing
Accountability continued
Board of Directors – Responsible for our system of corporate
governance, strategy, risk management and
financial performance
– Responsible for reviewing and approving
Audit & Risk Committee
the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk
management and internal controls
Corporate Executive Team – Supports the CEO in managing our business
and activities
– Authorised by the Board to assist the Audit
Risk Oversight and & Risk Committee in overseeing the risk
Compliance Council management and internal control activities
of the Group
– Responsible for our system of corporate
Business units
governance, strategy, risk management and
financial performance
– Ensure that appropriate internal controls for
Risk Management and
effective risk management are implemented
Compliance Boards
– Complemented by Country Executive Risk
Boards to ensure a consistent approach to
risk management across local territories89
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Relations with stakeholders
Engagement activities
In the performance of its legal duty to promote the success of the Emma and Simon maintain a continual and active dialogue with
company, the Board has regard to a number of factors, including institutional shareholders on performance, plans and objectives
listening to and considering the views of shareholders and other key through a programme of regular meetings. During the year, they held
stakeholders and is cognisant of the potential impacts of decisions it a total of 83 individual meetings with major shareholders and they
makes on our stakeholders, the environment and the communities in have hosted a total of 27 group meetings with major shareholders
which we operate. and potential major shareholders.
Our principal Board Committees have delegated powers that enable Philip Hampton also meets with major shareholders to hear their
a more in-depth assessment of the impacts of the company’s wider views and discuss issues of mutual importance. He then
engagement with stakeholders. It also provides a means of communicates their views to the rest of the Board. During the year,
identifying emerging stakeholder-related issues that can be brought he held six individual meetings with major shareholders on a range
to the attention of the Board, which in turn enables us to further of issues. Our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (SID)
invest in activities to build trust in our reputation for operating and our other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with
responsibly to deliver on our purpose. major shareholders.
Engagement with the company’s main stakeholder groups, including We normally hold a governance event at the end of each year with
our patients, shareholders, consumers, customers and employees, at institutional shareholders, key investment industry bodies and
all levels of the organisation and across the enterprise is summarised influential proxy advisory firms, at which the Chairman, SID and
on page 11. The Board’s interactions with two of the company’s main each of our Committee Chairs discuss particular areas of focus
stakeholder groups – shareholders and people – are set out in more associated with our corporate governance, corporate responsibility
detail below. and remuneration arrangements. The governance event for 2018 was
cancelled as the company was in possession of inside information
All shareholders
ahead of its announcement of the proposed joint venture with Pfizer’s
consumer healthcare business.
We try to engage with shareholders in several ways. This includes
regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations On a continuing basis, our Investor Relations department,
activities. We announce our results on a quarterly basis and our with offices in London and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for
annual results are included in our Annual Report. All shareholders communication with institutional investors. Our Company Secretary
receive an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual acts a focal point for communications on corporate governance
Report and Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available. matters. We also have a small central Corporate Responsibility (CR)
team which coordinates strategy, policy development and reporting
Our major shareholders
specifically with respect to CR. The team communicates with socially
responsible investors and other stakeholders.
During the year, after publication of our quarterly results, the CEO,
Emma Walmsley, and CFO, Simon Dingemans, gave presentations Our retail shareholders
to institutional investors, analysts and the media by webcast
teleconference. In July, Emma and Dr Hal Barron held an R&D update The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for retail investors and
event at which they announced a new approach to R&D that is manages key relationships with the company’s registrars, Equiniti in
designed to capitalise on the assets in the company’s promising the UK and The Bank of New York Mellon, who administer our ADR
early-stage pipeline and build the next wave of growth for GSK for programme in the US.
the benefit of patients and shareholders. This update to our major
shareholders concluded with a Q&A session.90
GSK Annual Report 2018
Relations with stakeholders continued
Engagement activities continued
Annual General Meeting
Stakeholder engagement, Modern employer,
All shareholders are invited to attend our Annual General Meeting. see page 11 see page 28
This year’s AGM will be held in May at the Sofitel London Heathrow
Trust, see page 24 Shareholder information,
Hotel. see page 251
Our 2018 AGM had a good level of attendance and engagement
by shareholders. All our proposed resolutions were approved by
shareholders. The level of support ranged from 90% to 99%.
The AGM provides an opportunity to put questions to our Board Workforce Engagement Director
and the Chairs of each of our Board Committees during the formal
AGM proceedings, while providing shareholders the chance to To underscore the Board’s commitment to strengthen its
meet informally with our Board Directors who will make themselves engagement with our people and to gather their views, it has
available before the meeting. designated one of our independent Non-Executive Directors,
Dr Vivienne Cox, as the company’s Workforce Engagement
Our people
Director in December 2018.
The Board is fully supportive of the Group’s commitment to being The Board firmly believes that this formal model of engagement:
a progressive, modern employer to attract, retain and motivate the
– is most likely to best connect our pre-existing employee
very best talent and drive high levels of employee engagement.
engagement activity and employee voice channels with
A key transformation priority for the CEO is to evolve the culture
boardroom decision-making to promote meaningful
of the company to enhance business performance. Our strategic
engagement;
success relies on our ability to engage our employees behind
the delivery of the company’s long-term IPT priorities underpinned – provides a regular platform for the independent element of
by a continuing shift in culture. Therefore, employee engagement is the Board to have direct conversations with the workforce,
a key barometer for measuring how people feel working for GSK individually and in group settings, to gain insights into their
and the tools we use to measure our people’s views are discussed experiences, concerns and perspectives, and to better
on page 28. understand whether the cultural change already underway
is embedding in the organisation to support our long-term
IPT priorities; and
– is therefore the model most likely to add immediate value.
A programme of activities is being compiled to ensure that
Vivienne is accessible to the workforce and to gather their
feedback for consideration by the Board.
She is looking forward to sharing her insights and experiences
gained as our Workforce Engagement Director in next year’s
Annual Report.91
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Science Committee report
– oversight of R&D projects portfolio governance; and
Dr Jesse Goodman
– R&D’s culture, talent, capabilities and incentive arrangements.
Science Committee Chair
In particular in 2018, the Committee reviewed the key features
of Dr Barron’s new approach to R&D, which focuses on science
Role related to the immune system, the use of human genetics and
The Committee: advanced technologies to help identify the next generation of
transformational medicines for patients.
– undertakes periodic reviews of R&D strategy and progress
The Committee has reviewed several assets currently in clinical
– assesses the overall performance, including relevant
development and notes the significant progress made to strengthen
financial metrics, effectiveness and competitiveness of R&D
the pharmaceuticals pipeline, particularly in the area of oncology.
– helps identify critical emerging trends in science and The company currently has 46 assets in development, with 33
medicine and their potential impact on the company immunomodulators, of which 16 are focused on oncology. In
addition, the Committee has considered from a scientific perspective
– undertakes periodic reviews of the company’s scientific
and was pleased to recommend to the Board the following key
capability and talent
business development transactions:
– reviews the scientific opportunity in specific large scale
Tesaro: strengthening the Pharmaceuticals pipeline with the
investments or business transactions
acquisition of this oncology-focused biopharmaceutical company.
– reviews the output of the Group’s science advisory boards. It has a major marketed project, Zejula, which is an oral poly ADP
ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor approved in the US and Europe
for adults with recurring ovarian cancer. We believe PARP inhibitors
Membership
also offer significant opportunities for treating patients with many
Committee members Committee member since other cancer types. Several other promising oncology assets were
Dr Jesse Goodman – Chair from 1 January 2017 1 January 2017 also acquired as part of this transaction, including a PD-1 inhibitor
(dostarlimab) currently being studied for endometrial cancer.
Dr Laurie Glimcher 1 September 2017
Judy Lewent 1 January 2017 23andMe: forming this exclusive collaboration with the world’s
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 January 2017 until leading consumer genetics and research company. This will
3 May 2018 combine our scientific and medical knowledge with large-scale
genetic resources and unique data science skills, improving the
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are given in
probability of R&D success.
their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 69 and 70. See page 72
for Committee member attendance levels. Merck: agreeing a proposed global strategic alliance with Merck
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany to jointly develop and commercialise
and attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee M7824. This is an investigational bifunctional fusion protein
meetings may include: immunotherapy that is currently in clinical development, including
potential registration studies, for multiple difficult-to-treat cancers.
Regular Attends as This includes a phase II trial to investigate M7824 compared with
Attendee attendee required
pembrolizumab as a first line treatment in patients with PD-L1
Company Chairman ✓ expressing advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
Chief Executive Officer ✓
Committee evaluation
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D ✓
President, Global Vaccines ✓
The second annual evaluation of the Committee was internally
Independent senior external scientific adviser(s) ✓ facilitated by the Company Secretary, who interviewed Committee
Chief Financial Officer ✓ members on behalf of the Committee Chair. In terms of
Other company executives ✓ enhancements, as the Committee settles into its role, consideration
would be given to how it refines its work and focus to exercise
effective oversight of the embedding of the new R&D strategy.
Next steps
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to present my second report of the Science
The Committee will continue to review how the new approach to
Committee’s activities (the Committee).
R&D is progressing and the culture change underway in R&D, and
During 2018, the Committee has sought to further evolve its ways of expects to see major data readouts and news flow on several new
working and oversight of R&D to support the Board and Dr Hal Barron medicines in 2019. Finally, I would like to thank Professor Sir Roy
in considering our science, pipeline and R&D strategy and priorities. Anderson who stood down from the Committee, when he retired
from the Board in May, for his significant contribution to helping me
The Committee has developed an annual programme of activities
shape the role and focus of the Committee.
to support its core role of R&D oversight to help discharge its
responsibilities. Items for consideration by the Committee include
receiving:
Dr Jesse Goodman
– regular updates on the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines priority assets;
Science Committee Chair
– regular R&D strategy updates; 11 March 201992
GSK Annual Report 2018
Corporate Responsibility Committee report
Dear Shareholder
Lynn Elsenhans As Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee (the Committee)
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair I am pleased to present the Committee’s 2018 report.
The Committee forms an important part of the Board’s oversight of
the Company’s responsible business agenda, ensuring management
Role
is working to deliver long-term value for both shareholders and
The Committee reviews:
society. The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports
– external issues that have the potential for serious impact from members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that
upon GSK’s business and reputation progress in meeting our responsible business commitments is
reviewed on a regular basis.
– oversight of the views and interests of internal and external
stakeholders Committee membership
– consideration of GSK’s Trust priority and annual governance
Committee members bring a wide range of sector experience,
oversight of progress against GSK’s commitments which
insight and stakeholder perspectives to help provide oversight on
reflect the most important issues for responsible and
these topics. This helps monitor the company’s work to engage
sustainable growth
effectively with its key stakeholders and to assess if the company is
Membership operating in a way that seeks to meet the high external expectations
The membership of the Committee and appointment dates are of GSK as a global healthcare company.
set out below:
During the year, Professor Sir Roy Anderson stood down from
the Committee when he retired from the Board in May 2018.
Committee members Committee member since
I greatly appreciated the insights that he brought to the work of
Lynn Elsenhans – Chair from 8 May 2015 1 October 2012
the Committee during his tenure, including the development of the
Dr Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016
new commitments to support the delivery of GSK’s Trust priority.
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 May 2016
I was pleased to invite Regis Simard, President Pharma Supply
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 May 2016 until 3 May 2018
Chain, to attend the Committee on a regular basis. Regis has
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are given in responsibility for product quality and environment, health, safety
their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 69 and 70. See page 72 & sustainability (EHSS); vital areas of the company’s operations
for Committee member attendance levels.
over which the Committee exercises oversight.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee
Areas of focus in 2018
and attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee
meetings may include:
The Committee has again focused on topics that are material
Regular Attends as to the company’s purpose, strategy, values and expectations.
Attendee attendee required The Committee plays an integral role in the oversight of GSK’s
Chief Executive Officer ✓ responsible business commitments. This year, the work of the
Company Chairman ✓ Committee included continued oversight of the development of a
Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D ✓ new set of focused commitments to support the Company’s Trust
priority. These new commitments build on a strong performance
General Counsel ✓
in responsible business over many years and are set in the context
President, Global Affairs ✓
of external trends and stakeholder expectations. The framework
President, Pharma Supply Chain ✓ surrounding these commitments had been subject to review by key
President, Global Pharmaceuticals ✓ stakeholders after which their feedback was incorporated to further
President, Global Vaccines ✓ strengthen its design and operation. The Board was pleased to
CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare ✓ support the Committee’s recommendations.
Head of Human Resources ✓ The new framework identifies 13 commitments across three focus
SVP, Corporate Affairs ✓ areas where the company can maximise its social impact: using
VP, Trust and Global Health ✓ science and technology to address health needs; making products
Other Executives ✓ affordable and available; and being a modern employer. These focus
areas are supported by commitments across the fundamentals of
Independent external corporate
responsibility adviser ✓ being a responsible healthcare company: reliable supply; ethics
and values; data and engagement; and the environment.93
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Corporate Responsibility Committee report continued
During the year, management presented to the Committee on Independent external corporate responsibility advisor
a number of topics across the breadth of the Trust priority:
Ms Sophia Tickell serves as an independent external advisor to
Using science and technology to address health needs:
the Committee. Ms Tickell has extensive experience in the
The Committee reviewed proposals from management for a new
pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems’ productivity,
global health strategy, designed to align to the company’s IPT
sustainability in energy supply and distribution, climate change
strategy. The new approach is more focused to achieve maximum
policy and short-termism in financial markets.
social impact to support the strategic theme of fighting infectious
diseases impacting children and young people in developing She is co-founder and Director of Meteos, from where she directs
countries. The Committee discussed the importance of end-to-end the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to better align societal and
planning of global health assets – through partnering with others shareholder value. She holds several other board and advisory roles.
from R&D to manufacturing – to ensure their sustainability over
Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided
the long-term.
independent advice and guidance on corporate responsibility
Making products affordable and available: During the year matters to both the Committee Chair, the CEO and the President,
we also considered access and affordability, and the company’s Global Affairs.
commitment to making our products available at prices that are
Committee evaluation
responsible and sustainable for the business. We reviewed the
global pricing strategies of our Pharmaceuticals business with a
The Committee’s annual evaluation exercise was internally facilitated
particular focus on the US environment, which is the company’s
by the Company Secretary, who interviewed Committee members on
current largest single market, and where the operating context
behalf of the Committee Chair. It was concluded that the Committee
continues to evolve.
continued to operate effectively. In terms of enhancements, the
Being a modern employer: The Committee also had oversight Committee would continue to review opportunities to develop its
of the company’s new commitments for being a modern employer remit to further support the company’s CR agenda and goals.
which centre on three main elements: engaged people; inclusion As part of this process, it would consider best practice at similar
and diversity; and health, wellbeing and development. The committees and examine its current responsibilities in relation to
Committee discussed the results from the global employee survey the remit of GSK’s other Board Committees.
and management’s plans for responding to lower scoring areas.
Committee aims for 2019
Responsible business: During the year the Committee reviewed
the progress made on GSK’s commitments to the fundamentals of Over the next year we will continue to understand GSK’s
being a responsible business. This included oversight of progress material responsible business topics and seek to understand
made to reduce the company’s environmental impacts across how management is responding to the expectations of external
carbon, water and waste, and the setting of new targets to 2030. stakeholders. The Committee is well positioned in 2019 to support
Updates on business conduct and engagement with healthcare the delivery of the new commitments to support Trust, one of
professionals were also discussed by the Committee. GSK’s long-term business priorities.
The Committee also reviewed and approved the company’s reporting
on progress made on the company’s responsible business Lynn Elsenhans
commitments. Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair
11 March 2019
Stakeholder engagement and insights
The Committee pays close attention to the evolving views and
expectations of the company’s broad range of key stakeholders.
A regular report on stakeholder insights is reviewed and discussed Area of responsibility Items addressed during 2018
at each meeting to ensure the Committee considers the issues that External issues that have the – Health and safety update
may have a bearing on the company’s reputation and the delivery of potential for serious impact upon – Regular reputational and emerging
its responsible business agenda. The Committee also received an GSK’s business and reputation issues update
update on GSK’s reputation research to understand relevant insights – Oversight of corporate reputation
for its strategy. Employee insights were discussed in relation to the research and KPI
company’s modern employer agenda and the results of the Global
Oversight of stakeholder views – Stakeholder insights update
employee survey.
and engagement – Employee survey
This year we have continued to enjoy positive engagement with
investors on our responsible business approach and performance. Annual governance oversight – Responsible Business Supplement
I meet directly with shareholders from time to time to understand of progress against GSK’s approval
any issues and concerns they may have and other Committee responsible business – Oversight of new commitments
commitments to support Trust
members also meet informally with shareholders before the AGM. – Global health strategy
The Committee was very pleased to see the company maintain first
– Sustainable access and affordability
position in the Access to Medicines Index, and second position in
– Business conduct
the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for our industry, two investor
supported external benchmarks. – Modern employer
– Environmental targets94
GSK Annual Report 2018
Directors
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our Change of control and essential contracts
Articles of Association, which contain rules about the appointment We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually
and replacement of Directors. They provide that Directors may are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively,
be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take
resolution of the Board, provided that, if appointed by the effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following
Board, the Director retires at the AGM following the appointment. a takeover bid. We do not have agreements with any Director that
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment
Our Articles also provide that all Directors are required to seek
resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s
re-election annually at the AGM in accordance with the UK
share plans may cause options and awards granted under such
Corporate Governance Code.
plans to vest on a takeover. Details of the termination provisions in
A Director will cease to be a Director if he or she: the Executive Directors’ service contracts are given in the full version
– becomes bankrupt of the company’s 2017 Remuneration policy which is available at
– ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or the Articles www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
– suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves
Directors’ Report
that he or she shall cease to be a Director
For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’
– has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of six
Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December
months without permission and the Board resolves that he or
2018 comprises pages 65 to 94 of the Corporate Governance
she shall cease to be a Director
Report, the Directors’ statements of responsibilities on pages 126
– is prohibited from being a Director by law
and 127 and pages 241 to 270 of Investor Information. The Strategic
– resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer
report sets out those matters required to be disclosed in the
– is required to resign by the Board.
Directors’ Report which are considered to be of strategic
Directors’ conflicts of interest importance:
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid
– risk management objectives and policies (pages 34 to 36
a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect
and 241 to 250)
conflict of interest or possible conflict with the company. Our Articles
– likely future developments of the company (Strategic report)
provide a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
– research and development activities (pages 13 to 23)
The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board – inclusion and diversity (page 28)
to grant and regularly review any potential or actual conflict – provision of information to, and consultation with, employees
authorisations, which are recorded by the Company Secretary (page 28)
and noted by the Board. Directors are not counted in the quorum – carbon emissions (page 32)
for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conflicts.
The following information is also incorporated into the Directors’ Report:
On a continuing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing Location in Annual Report
the Company Secretary of any such new actual or potential conflicts
Interest capitalised Financial statements,
that may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may Notes 17 and 19
affect an authorisation previously given. Even when provided with
Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 37
authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory duty
Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
to promote the success of the company. If an actual conflict arises
Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
post-authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the Director
from receipt of the relevant information and participation in the Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
require the Director to resign. Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking
The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential
Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable
conflict authorisations in January 2019 and reported to the Board
by a listed subsidiary
that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the
Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable
process for authorisation continues to operate effectively. Except
shareholder
as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related party
transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no Director Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements,
Notes 15 and 43
or Person Closely Associated had any material interest in any
contract of significance with a Group company. Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements,
Notes 15 and 43
Our Articles also prohibit a Director from voting on any resolution
Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
concerning his or her appointment or the terms or termination
of his or her appointment. The Directors’ Report has been drawn up and presented in
accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and
Independent advice
the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall
The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take
be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s
expense where they deem it necessary. The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board of Directors
on 11 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by:
Indemnification of Directors
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors Philip Hampton
and former Directors who held office during 2018 and up to the Chairman
signing of the Annual Report. 11 March 20199955
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001188 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Remuneration
In this section
Chairman’s annual statement 96
Annual report on remuneration 98
2017 Remuneration policy summary 12096
GSK Annual Report 2018
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement
Dear Shareholder the three years to 31 December 2018. The threshold target for
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee (the Committee), I am the TSR measure was not met, but the maximum R&D target was
pleased to present to you our Remuneration report for 2018. achieved. In reviewing the adjusted free cash flow performance
The Annual report on remuneration and this annual statement the target was adjusted upwards to reflect the outperformance
will be subject to an advisory vote at our AGM on 8 May 2019. attributable to the timing impact of the loss of Advair exclusivity.
This resulted in an overall vesting level of 59%. Further details
2018 performance of the vesting outcome for the 2016 PSP and DABP matching
awards are provided on page 103.
Overall, 2018 was a year of very good progress for GSK. We saw
Group sales growth of 5% CER driven by growth across all three Remuneration policy implementation for 2019
businesses, strong commercial execution of new product launches,
especially Shingrix, continued cost discipline and better cash CEO remuneration
generation. We also achieved earnings growth with adjusted EPS At the time of Ms Walmsley’s appointment to the role of CEO, the
up 12%. It was a significant year for the Group strategically, with the Committee set her remuneration at a level to reflect the fact that this
launch of a new R&D strategy focused on immunology, genetics and was her first CEO role, significantly below the previous incumbent
new technologies, together with a series of transactions that support and the market. At that time, in the 2016 Annual report on
GSK’s strategy and reshape of the Group’s portfolio. remuneration and again in our 2017 report, we highlighted that it was
our intention to keep Ms Walmsley’s package under review in the
2018 remuneration outcomes coming years, subject to her development and performance in role.
All awards in relation to 2018 were made in accordance with our Ms Walmsley has now been in position for nearly two years and
approved Remuneration policy. The key decisions made by the in the Board’s view has already delivered a number of significant
Committee were as follows: achievements, including developing and deploying Innovation,
Performance and Trust strategic priorities, driving culture change
– The bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors were determined
across the company and strong financial delivery in 2017 and 2018.
by reference to performance against the agreed financial measure,
as well as the Committee’s assessment of their individual levels Looking ahead, Ms Walmsley has also set a clear capital allocation
of performance. In conjunction with assessment of individual framework for the Group and as part of this delivered the Consumer
performance, this has resulted in bonus payments being made Healthcare business buy-out from Novartis in 2018 and announced
above target. The Committee adjusted the Adjusted Group PBIT the proposal creation of a Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with
target upwards to reflect the outperformance on this measure Pfizer towards the end of the year. While this remains subject to
attributable to the timing impact of the loss of Advair exclusivity. shareholder approval, it has created a clear pathway for the Group
The Committee believe the bonus outcomes appropriately reflect to deliver substantial further value for shareholders in the longer term.
the overall underlying performance in 2018. Further details of the Given the above, the view of the Board is that Ms Walmsley has
bonus outcomes for the year are provided on page 101. established herself successfully and is already demonstrating a track
– Vesting of the 2016 Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards and record of delivering strongly against her priorities for the business. We
the matching awards under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan believe it is now the right time to start reflecting this development and
(DABP) were based on the pre-agreed measures of R&D new performance in her remuneration. This is consistent with how we
product performance, adjusted free cash flow and relative TSR, review the remuneration of all our employees as they develop and
each with an equal weighting. Performance was measured over progress in their roles.
2018 at a glance
2018 Total Remuneration
The following shows a breakdown of total remuneration paid to Executive Directors in office at 31 December 2018, in respect of 2018
and 2017.
Emma Walmsley Simon Dingemans Dr Hal Barron(1)
CEO CFO Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D
£6m US$8m
75%
71% 79% US$6m 46%
£4m 76%
US$4m
54%
£2m
US$2m
25% 29%
21% 24%
£0m US$0m
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018
Fixed pay – salary, benefits and pension (1) D r Hal Barron was appointed to the Board on
Performance pay – 2018 annual bonus and LTIs earned in respect 1 January 2018.
of the three year performance period to the end of 201897
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Following consultation with some of our major shareholders, the In August 2018, we announced the appointment of Iain Mackay to
Committee has considered how to address this and has taken the the role of Chief Financial Officer from 1 April 2019. He joined the
feedback from shareholders into account in deciding to implement CET and Board on 14 January 2019. Iain’s remuneration package is
a two-step salary increase for Ms Walmsley’s as follows: fully in line with the Remuneration policy approved by shareholders
in 2017. His base salary will be £850,000, which the Committee
– An 8% increase from 1 January 2019 that results in a base
felt was appropriate to reflect his experience and qualifications
salary of £1,110,348 (currently £1,028,100); and
and his total compensation was also validated as being within the
– An 8% increase from 1 January 2020, subject to continued competitive range seen among our UK cross-industry comparator
development and sustained performance in role. This would group.
result in a base salary from 2020 of £1,199,176.
Looking ahead
This phased approach will enable the Committee to monitor
sustained performance as well as any market developments.
The Committee has reviewed its current practices against the revised
Incentive measures UK Corporate Governance Code (the 2018 Code) published by the
Following careful consideration, the Committee has determined Financial Reporting Council (FRC) and we will report in 2020 on
that no changes to our LTI measures will be made in 2019. how we complied with the 2018 Code during 2019.
As such, PSP awards granted in 2019 will be subject to the same In line with the commitment we made in our 2017 report we have
performance conditions as in previous grants: R&D new product disclosed our CEO pay ratio this year, ahead of the reporting
performance, adjusted free cash flow and relative TSR. Further requirement, in line with the methodology prescribed in the
details on our implementation for 2019 are set out on page 108. secondary legislation published by the UK Government in 2018.
However, we are taking this opportunity to respond to feedback from Given that our Remuneration policy will expire at our 2020 AGM,
some of our shareholders to reduce the threshold level of vesting this year the Committee will be undertaking a review of GSK’s
under the TSR element of our PSP from 30% to 25% of the remuneration arrangements, taking into consideration the
maximum. Accordingly, all our performance measures for future governance developments during the period since our current
awards will now vest at 25% of the maximum opportunity for policy was approved.
threshold performance.
We plan to continue our regular dialogue with shareholders and
New appointments to the Board will hold our annual meeting with GSK’s largest investors later in
the year to listen to their views and feedback.
In May 2018, Simon Dingemans announced that he would retire from
the company. He is a voluntary leaver and therefore will not receive AGM
any severance payment when he leaves the company after the AGM
Finally, I would like to thank shareholders for their ongoing input and
on 8 May 2019.
engagement and I welcome all shareholders’ feedback on this report.
Simon will continue to receive his base salary until he leaves We look forward to receiving your support for our Annual report on
GSK. He was also eligible to receive a bonus for 2018 based on remuneration at our AGM on 8 May 2019.
a combination of business and individual performance. He will
not receive any bonus for the portion of 2019 for which he will be
Urs Rohner
employed and any PSP and DABP matching awards which have
Remuneration Committee Chairman
not already vested prior to his departure will lapse when he leaves.
11 March 2019
He was not eligible to receive an LTI award in 2019.
Pay for performance
2018 Annual bonus: financial performance 2016 LTI outcome: performance period ended 31 December 2018
Overall vesting 59%
Maximum
(105% of target) 104%
Relative R&D new
[•]%
Target TSR products
1/3rd 33.33% 1/3rd
Threshold
59.00%
(95% of target)
Adjusted Group PBIT
25.67%
Maximum performance target Lapsed
Performance achieved Vested
Adjusted
free cash flow
1/3rd98
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration
2018 Total remuneration (audited)
Vesting
Annual Total
Salary Benefits Pension of LTI
bonus remuneration
awards
A. Fixed pay B. Pay for performance
The total remuneration for 2018 for each Executive Director is set out in the table below:
Dr Hal Barron,(2)
Emma Walmsley, Simon Dingemans,(1) Chief Scientific Officer Sir Patrick Vallance,(3)
CEO CFO and President, R&D (Former President, R&D)
Jan-Mar
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
£000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000 £000 £000
A. Fixed pay
Salary See page 99 1,028 965 773 754 1,700 – 203 780
Benefits See page 99 234 266 141 142 807 – 42 102
Pension See page 100 207 195 155 151 1,043 – 39 156
Total fixed pay 1,469 1,426 1,069 1,047 3,550 – 284 1,038
B. Pay for performance
2018 Annual bonus(4)
See pages 101 and 102 1,912 1,540 1,368 1,090 3,009 – – 1,127
Vesting of LTI awards:
DABP matching awards(5)
See page 103 301 112 398 156 – – – 182
PSP (5) See page 103 2,205 1,805 2,367 2,012 – – – 2,041
Total pay for performance 4,418 3,457 4,133 3,258 3,009 – – 3,350
A+B = Total remuneration 5,887 4,883 5,202 4,305 6,559 – 284 4,388
Notes:
(1) Simon Dingemans’ vested PSP shares will be subject to a two-year holding period. Ms Walmsley’s PSP shares are not subject to the same holding requirement as her grant was
awarded before she was appointed an Executive Director.
(2) Dr Hal Barron was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2018.
(3) Sir Patrick Vallance resigned from the company and the Board on 31 March 2018. Salary reflects the basic salary earned for the time worked from 1 January to 31 March 2018 plus
payment in lieu of accrued holiday not taken, in accordance with GSK’s standard UK holiday pay policy.
(4) Details of the mandatory bonus deferrals under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) are set out on page 114. Matching awards are no longer granted under the DABP.
(5) Further details in respect of the vesting of DABP matching awards and Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards for the three-year period to 31 December 2018 are provided on page
103.
(6) The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus, as it determines appropriate. Following due consideration by the Committee,
there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2018 in respect of any of the Executive Directors.
Past Directors: Payments to past directors are set out on page 109. The PSP and DABP awards for Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui granted in 2015 and 2016 have now vested.
The 2015 awards vested following the one-year anniversaries of their respective leaving dates in accordance with the terms of the Executive Recoupment Policy. The 2016 awards vested in
accordance with the standard vesting policy. The 2015 and 2016 PSP awards are subject to an additional two-year holding period until February 2020 and February 2021 respectively.
As disclosed on page 136 of the 2016 Annual Report they both left GSK by mutual agreement, neither received any termination payments and any outstanding incentive awards were
treated in accordance with the 2014 Remuneration policy, approved by shareholders, under which they were granted.99
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2018 Total remuneration (audited) continued
The following sections provide details of each element of ‘Total remuneration’, including how the Committee implemented the approved
Remuneration policy in 2018.
Comparator groups for pay and TSR
The Committee used two pay comparator groups for all roles when considering executive pay for 2018. The primary group used for each
Executive Director was as follows:
UK cross-industry comparator group Global pharmaceutical comparator group
Emma Walmsley AstraZeneca Reckitt Benckiser Dr Hal Barron France US
Simon Dingemans BHP Group Rio Tinto Sanofi AbbVie(1)
BP Royal Dutch Shell Switzerland Amgen(1)
British American Tobacco Unilever Novartis Bristol-Myers Squibb
Diageo Vodafone Roche Holdings Eli Lilly
Johnson & Johnson
UK
Merck & Co
AstraZeneca
Pfizer
(1) A bbVie and Amgen are included for remuneration benchmarking, but are not included in the TSR comparator group.
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee also references pay for a group of leading European companies whose selection
is based on their size and complexity.
Fixed pay (audited)
Salary 2018 benefits 2017 benefits
£000 £000
The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive Directors Emma Walmsley
over the last two years. As disclosed last year, the salary increases Employee benefits 74 60
made in 2018 were aligned with those provided to the wider
Travel 144 146
workforce. Details of salary levels for 2019 are provided on page 108.
Other benefits 16 60
Base salary Total 234 266
%
change 2018 2017 Simon Dingemans
Emma Walmsley 2.5% £1,028,100 £1,003,000(1) Employee benefits 55 53
Simon Dingemans 2.5% £772,800 £754,000 Travel 74 64
Dr Hal Barron n/a $1,700,000 – Other benefits 12 25
Sir Patrick Vallance 0% £780,000 £780,000 Total 141 142
(1) M s Walmsley’s salary as CEO Designate between 1 January and 31 March 2017 Sir Patrick Vallance
was £850,000. Her salary then increased from 1 April 2017 to £1,003,000 when Employee benefits 20 48
she became CEO.
Travel 10 46
Benefits Other benefits 12 8
The table opposite shows a breakdown of the grossed up cash value Total 42 102
of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in 2018 and 2017
Dr Hal Barron(1) $000 $000
which included:
Employee benefits 42 –
– Employee benefits: all employee share plans, healthcare,
Travel 464 –
home security, car allowance, personal financial advice and life
Other benefits 301 –
assurance/death in service cover.
Total 807 –
– Travel expenses: include travel costs for the Executive Director
and as appropriate for their spouse/partner associated with (1) D r Hal Barron is based in San Francisco and travels for business purposes which
is treated from a tax perspective as a benefit. It is therefore included in the table
accompanying the Executive Director on GSK business,
above. The grossed up cash value of Dr Barron’s travel in 2018 was $464,314.
which are deemed to be taxable benefits on the Director. Other benefits includes the grossed up value of UK accommodation of $294,547.
– Other benefits: expenses incurred in the ordinary course
of business, which are deemed to be taxable benefits for
the individual.100
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
Fixed pay (audited) continued
Pensions
Executive Director Member since Pension arrangements in 2018
Emma Walmsley 2010 20% of base salary and matching contributions on the first £33,333 of salary;(1) 20% of base salary
in lieu of pension on salary in excess of £33,333(2).
Simon Dingemans – 20% of base salary in lieu of pension(3)
Dr Hal Barron 2018 Member of the US Cash Balance and the Supplemental Cash Balance pension plans, under which GSK
makes annual contributions of 38% of base salary, in line with other US senior executives and members
of GSK’s Corporate Executive Team.
Dr Barron is also a member of the 401(k) plan open to all US employees and the Executive Supplemental
Savings Plan (ESSP), a savings scheme open to US executives to accrue benefits above the 401(k)
plan limits.
Having completed one year’s service, from 1 January 2019, Dr Barron receives a combined contribution
rate under the 401(k) and ESSP plans of 6% (2% core contributions plus a match of up to 4%) of total
base salary and bonus, less the bonus deferred under the DABP.
Sir Patrick Vallance – 20% of base salary in lieu of pension(3)
(1) As a member of the defined contribution plan, Emma Walmsley is eligible to receive a matching award of up to 5% on the first £33,333 of her salary in accordance with the terms
of the plan.
(2) Emma Walmsley receives a cash payment in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in excess of £33,333 in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
(3) Simon Dingemans and Sir Patrick Vallance received cash payments in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values set out on page 98.
Emma Walmsley Simon Dingemans Dr Hal Barron Sir Patrick Vallance
Jan-Mar
2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
Pension remuneration values(1) £000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000 £000 £000
UK defined contribution 8 9 – – – – – –
US defined benefit – – – – 1,043 – – –
Employer cash contributions 199 186 155 151 – – 39 156
Total pension remuneration value 207 195 155 151 1,043 – 39 156
(1) T he pension remuneration figures have been calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (Remuneration Regulations).
Further details regarding the 2018 pension values for Dr Hal Barron, are set out in the table below.
Accrued pension
31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Pension remuneration
Dr Hal Barron pension values(1) $000 $000 value for 2018 $000
US – Unfunded 52 – 1,043
Total 52 – 1,043
(1) D r Hal Barron joined GSK on 1 January 2018. The pensions figures are disclosed for Dr Barron, who is a member of the US style defined benefit plans. In accordance with paragraph
10.e.ii of Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008, as amended, the table shows the accrued benefit (ie the
annual pension accrued to date). The pension remuneration in 2018 is calculated as the increase in the accrued benefit, adjusted for inflation and multiplied by 20 to reflect the fact
that the benefit will be received for a number of years.101
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual bonus
30%
70%
Individual Annual bonus
Adjusted Group PBIT
objectives
2018 performance against targets
For 2018, the financial measures and weightings were as follows:
Weighting 2018 Adjusted Group PBIT performance
Positioning
Performance measure Executive Directors 2018 target(1) Outcome against target
Adjusted Group PBIT 70% £8,423m £8,754m 104%
Individual objectives 30%
(1) Threshold and maximum performance targets were set at 95% and 105% of Target respectively. The target for 2018 was increased by £215 million to reduce the level of over
performance attributable to the original timing assumption for the loss of Advair exclusivity.
(2) The Adjusted Group PBIT target and outcome for the purposes of the Annual bonus calculation differ from Adjusted Group PBIT disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report,
primarily because both the target and outcome numbers are calculated applying GSK budget exchange rates and not actual exchange rates.
The following table shows actual bonuses earned compared to bonus opportunity for 2018:
2018 bonus opportunity 2018 bonus outcome
Financial Individual Total 2018 Total 2018
Target Maximum 2018 performance objectives bonus bonus
Bonus (% of salary) (% of salary) Base salary (% of salary) (% of salary) (% of salary) 000
Emma Walmsley £1,028,100 126 60 186 £1,912
Simon Dingemans 100 200 £772,800 126 51 177 £1,368
Dr Hal Barron $1,700,000 126 51 177 $3,009
The table below provides more detail on delivery against Adjusted Group PBIT:
Financial performance
– Group turnover was £30.8 billion, a 2% increase AER and 5% CER.
– Adjusted operating profit was £8,745 million, 2% higher on an AER basis and 6% higher CER.
– The Adjusted operating margin of 28.4% was flat on an AER basis compared with 2017 and 0.5 % higher CER. This reflected the benefit from sales growth
across all three businesses on a CER basis and a more favourable mix, primarily in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare. The margin also benefited from the
prioritisation of R&D expenditure and the comparison with the impact of the Priority Review Voucher utilised and expensed in 2017, as well as continued tight
control of ongoing costs across all three business. This was partly offset by continued pricing pressure, particularly in respiratory, increased input costs, the
comparison with the benefit in 2017 of a settlement for lost third party supply volume in Vaccines, investments in promotional product support, particularly for
new product launches, and a reduction in royalty income.102
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
The following table summarises performance against the scorecard of individual objectives agreed by the Committee for each Executive Director:
Individual objectives
Emma Walmsley
– Continued focus and progress against long-term Innovation, – Significant transactions undertaken to support strategy and
Performance and Trust priorities. re-shape the business:
– Strong financial and operational performance for the Group in – Successful agreement with Novartis to acquire full ownership
2018. Turnover £30.8 billion, Total operating profit £5.5 billion, of Consumer Healthcare business
Free cash flow £5.7 billion. – Divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
– Strong launch execution evidenced by Shingrix sales nutrition brands to Unilever
£784 million, new Respiratory products £2,612 million and – Proposed Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture agreed with
Juluca £133 million. Pfizer.
– New approach to R&D launched and start of strengthening of – New commercial operating model in Pharmaceuticals
pipeline, particularly in oncology. New R&D senior leadership implemented to support the evolving portfolio.
team established with outstanding new hires. Significant – New 5-year Pharmaceuticals supply chain strategy implemented
pipeline prioritisation and new R&D portfolio governance resulting in savings in improved productivity whilst maintaining
process across R&D and commercial. compliance.
– Significant progress made in R&D business development – Successful employee engagement through increased visibility of
through agreement to acquire Tesaro and multi-year CET members through key internal communication platforms.
collaboration with 23andMe.
– Continued successful development of CET:
– Successful implementation of portfolio/brand and geographic
– Three internal CET promotions
prioritisation in Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare
– New external Chief Financial Officer appointment
businesses.
– Key leadership appointments in place with 69% of top 125
leaders new in role.
– Successfully achieved diversity target of 33% women at the
Senior Vice President and the Vice President level.
Dr Hal Barron
– New approach to R&D launched and start of strengthening of – Good progress made in re-shaping and building capabilities in
pipeline, particularly in oncology. New R&D senior leadership Medicinal science and Technology organisations within R&D.
team established with outstanding new hires. Significant – Continued strong momentum in delivery of new approach to
pipeline prioritisation and new R&D portfolio governance R&D including:
process across R&D and commercial. – Ongoing re-build of Pharmaceuticals pipeline with majority
– Significant progress made in business development through of new medicines now in development targeting modulation
agreement to acquire Tesaro and multi-year collaboration of the immune system
with 23andMe. – Major progress made in oncology pipeline reflecting organic
progress and agreement to acquire Tesaro
Simon Dingemans
– Delivered strong financial leadership for the Group in 2018. – Significant contribution in the successful execution of our
– Improved cash flow generation (Free cash flow £5.7 billion), M&A strategy:
Total operating profit (£5.5 billion) and Group turnover – Successful agreement with Novartis to acquire full ownership
(£30.8 billion). of Consumer Healthcare business
– Divestment of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
nutrition brands to Unilever
– Proposed Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture agreed with Pfizer
Malus and clawback policy In line with these disclosure guidelines, neither the Committee (nor the
Recoupment Committee) exercised malus or clawback during 2018.
For details of our policy on malus/clawback, please refer to the 2017
Executive Director Remuneration policy summary on page 121. Other policies
From 1 January 2015 in respect of each financial year, the Committee
For details of our policies on recruitment remuneration, loss of office
decided to disclose whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has
and termination payments, please refer to the 2017 Remuneration
exercised malus or clawback.
policy report on pages 137 to 146 of the 2016 Annual Report,
Disclosure is only made when the matter has been the subject of available at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully resolved, where
it is legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made without
unduly prejudicing the company and therefore shareholders.103
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Value earned from long-term incentives (LTIs)
The following tables set out the performance achieved by management against the targets set for the company’s LTI plans and also includes
an update on performance of outstanding awards.
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, for each measure applicable to the LTI awards, actual performance against the targets is
reviewed and adjustments made as appropriate to ensure that the vesting outcome reflects genuine underlying business performance.
Further details on any adjustments made will be provided at the time of vesting.
2016 awards with a performance period ended 31 December 2018
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP awards and the DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors against the
targets set. The Committee decided to increase the Adjusted Free Cash Flow (‘AFCF’) target and associated vesting scale for the 2016
PSP and DABP matching awards to reduce the level of outperformance attributable to the original timing assumption for the loss of Advair
exclusivity. There are no changes to the targets set for the R&D New Product performance measure or the Relative TSR performance
measure for the 2016 PSP awards and DABP matching awards.
The performance achieved in the three years to 31 December 2018 and the vesting levels are set out in the table below.
Outcome and vesting level
Performance measures % of % of
and relative weighting Performance targets Outcome maximum award
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new £10.44bn 100 33.33
performance products launched in the three-year performance period and the preceding two years,
(1/3rd) i.e. 2014-18.
Target % vesting
Maximum £8.53bn 100%
£7.76bn 75%
£7.37bn 50%
Threshold £6.98bn 25%
Adjusted free In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included adjustments £13.18bn 77 25.67
cash flow for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements, exchange rate
performance movements and special pension contributions.
(1/3rd)
Original Revised
Target Target % vesting
Maximum £13.46bn £13.72bn 100%
£12.87bn £13.12bn 75%
£11.70bn £11.93bn 50%
Threshold £11.35bn £11.57bn 25%
Relative TSR Ranked 6th 0 0
TSR ranking within comparator group(1) % vesting
performance
Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
(1/3rd)
4th 72%
5th 44%
Threshold(2) Median 30%
6th to 10th 0%
(1) T SR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GSK, Johnson & Johnson,
Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
(2) T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 30% vesting for median performance.
In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls between two companies.
Total vesting in respect of 2016 awards 59%104
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Update on performance of ongoing LTI awards
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the PSP awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017 and 2018, and of the DABP
matching awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017. The following charts provide an estimate of the vesting levels taking into account
performance to 31 December 2018. Actual vesting levels will only be determined based on performance over the full three-year performance
periods. The indications below should therefore not be regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels.
In addition to the adjustments made to the target and associated vesting scale for the 2016 PSP awards and the DABP matching awards,
adjustments have been made to the AFCF targets and associated vesting scales for the 2017 and 2018 awards, as follows:
– The target for the 2017 PSP awards and the DABP matching awards have been decreased in aggregate by £557m to £11.26bn.
This is to reflect:
(i) a reduction to the target due to the forecast impact of the Tesaro acquisition and the major restructuring programme announced
with the Q2 2018 results; and
(ii) a n increase to the target to reduce the level of Advair outperformance attributable to the delayed loss of exclusivity. The overall net
impact is a reduction to the target.
– The target for the 2018 PSP award has been similarly adjusted for the same factors applicable to the 2017 PSP. The net overall impact
is a decrease to the target of £1.29bn to £10.79bn. The reduction is primarily driven by the impact of the restructuring programme and
the Tesaro acquisition. The adjustment for the delayed loss of exclusivity results in an increase to target.
There are no changes to the targets set for the R&D New Product performance measure or the TSR performance measure for the 2017
and 2018 awards.
2017 award – Performance update 2018 award – Performance update
Ranked 3rd 122% of Ranked 3rd 122% of
or above £12.95bn threshold or above £12.41bn threshold
Maximum Maximum
Commercially Commercially
Median £10.93bn sensitive Median £10.47bn sensitive
Threshold Threshold
TSR Adjusted free R&D new TSR Adjusted free R&D new
(1/3rd) cash flow product (1/3rd) cash flow product
(1/3rd) (1/3rd) (1/3rd) (1/3rd)
Estimated vesting level
For threshold performance, 25% of each award will vest in respect of R&D new product and AFCF measures and 30% for the TSR element.
The TSR comparator group remains unchanged from that shown on page 103 in respect of the 2016 awards.105
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Historical vesting for GSK’s LTIs
Year of grant Performance measures Total vesting level Lapsed
2016 T A R 0 26 33 41
2015 T A R 15 21 33 31
2014 T A R 33 67
2013 T A R B 21 17 62
2012 T A R B 7 7 86
2011 T A R B 13 16 11 60
Performance measures key
R R&D new product
2010 T A 9 16 75
A Adjusted free cash flow
2009 T A 9 40 51 T TSR
B Business diversification
2008 T 35 65 Lapsed
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
2018 LTI awards
The levels of participation in the DABP in respect of 2017 bonus deferrals are shown in the table below. The table also shows the PSP award
details for 2018.
DABP awards PSP awards
2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018
% of total bonus Number of Face value Award level as % Number of Face value
deferred shares of award(1) of base salary shares of award(2)
Emma Walmsley 50% 58,889 shares £0.770m 550% 437,997 shares £5.7m
Simon Dingemans 50% 41,674 shares £0.545m 400% 239,442 shares £3.1m
Dr Hal Barron(4) n/a – – 500% 233,132 ADS $8.5m
Sir Patrick Vallance (5) 50% 43,111 shares £0.563m – – –
(1) The face values of the DABP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £13.07, being the closing price on 28 February 2018. These are nil-cost options.
No performance conditions are attached to the DABP awards, as they reflect the mandatory deferrals in respect of the 2017 annual bonus earned.
(2) The face values of the PSP awards have been calculated based on a share price of £12.91, and an ADS price of $36.46, being the closing prices on 13 February 2018.
These are conditional shares, based on three equally weighted measures; (i) R&D New Product Performance; (ii) Adjusted free cash flow; and (iii) Relative TSR. The first
two performance measures vest at 25% at threshold, and the third performance measure at 30% at threshold.
(3) The performance period for the PSP 2018 awards is from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2020.
(4) Dr Hal Barron was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
(5) Sir Patrick Vallance’s DABP award will vest as normal three years after the date it was granted.
All-employee share plans Dilution limits
UK Executive Directors may participate in HMRC approved All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution
all-employee share plans, i.e. Share Save and Share Reward plans. limits consistent with the guidelines published by the Investment
Association. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten-year period for
Participants of the Share Save Plan may save up to £250 a month
all plans and 5% in any rolling ten-year period for executive share
for three years and at the end of the period have the option to buy
plans. Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last
GSK shares at a 20% discount to the share price at the start of the
ten years up to 31 December 2018 is as follows:
savings contract. Participants of the Share Reward Plan contribute
up to £125 a month to purchase GSK shares which the company
All GSK employee share plans
then matches.
Monthly saving
Share Save (£) Share Reward (£) 1.94% 10%
Emma Walmsley 250 125
Simon Dingemans 150 125 0 02 04 06 08 10
Executive share plans
1.66% 5%
Actual Limit
0 02 04 06106
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
CEO pay comparison
2018 CEO total remuneration positioning In light of this we have also provided supplemental ratios, where
Long Term Incentive compensation has been excluded. We believe
this provides an additional view as long term incentive forms a
UK substantial 42.6% of the CEO’s total remuneration in 2018, which
cross-industry
is highly variable and dependent on business performance. The
group
CEO single figure of remuneration excluding Long Term Incentive
Global Compensation is £3,381,135.
pharmaceutical
group P25 (Lower P50 P75 (Upper
Financial Year Methodology Quartile) (Median) Quartile)
European 2018 Option A* 70:1 52:1 34:1
cross-industry
group *Total single figure remuneration less Long-Term Incentive Plans
Historic CEO remuneration
(£m) 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
Lower quartile Median to upper Emma Walmsley’s Emma Walmsley Sir Andrew Witty
to median quartile current position
2018 2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
Remuneration includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on the £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology. Single 5,8874,883(1)715(3)6,8306,6613,902 7,2074,3866,8074,5625,790
figure of
CEO pay ratios remuneration
Annual 93% 77% 0%(3) 97%100% 42% 88% 44%100% 59%100%
P25 (Lower P50 P75 (Upper bonus
Financial Year Methodology Quartile) (Median) Quartile) award(2)
(% of
2018 Option A 122:1 90:1 56:1
maximum)
The pay ratios above are calculated by using actual earnings for the Vesting of 59% 69% 0%(4) 33% 38% 14% 31% 24% 70% 35% 35%
CEO and UK employees. The CEO total single figure remuneration LTI awards
(% of
of £5,886,672 is given on page 98 of this Report.
maximum)
Total remuneration for all UK full-time equivalent employees of the
(1) Ms Walmsley’s single figure of remuneration includes her pay for the period 1 January
company on 31 December 2018 have been calculated in line with to 31 March 2017, before she became CEO.
the single figure methodology and reflects their actual earnings (2) 2009 and 2010 bonuses include amounts paid under the Operational Efficiency Bonus
received in 2018 (excluding business expense), which were used in place for those years. The overall maximum bonus receivable was still subject to a
limit of 200% of base salary.
to produce the percentile calculation under Option A. Business
expenses have been excluded as they are reimbursed to the (3) Sir Andrew received a pro-rata payment for 2017 in lieu of a variable bonus opportunity,
in accordance with the 2014 Remuneration policy.
employees and not substantial in value to significantly impact
(4) PSP and DABP awards for Sir Andrew granted in 2015 did not vest until April 2018,
the ratios. in accordance with the terms of the Executive Financial Recoupment Policy.
GSK has chosen Option A because it is the most robust and
Performance graph
statistically accurate way for the company to calculate the three
ratios from the options available in the Regulations. The following graph sets out the performance of the company
Set out in the table below is the base salary and total pay and relative to the FTSE 100 index and to the pharmaceutical
benefits for each of the percentiles. performance comparator group for the ten-year period to 31
December 2018. These indices were selected for comparison
25th Percentile Median 75th Percentile purposes as they reflect both the primary index of which GSK is
£ (P25) (P50) (P75)
a constituent and the industry in which it operates.
Salary 33,090 44,944 64,185
Total pay and benefits 48,370 65,149 105,045 340
The Committee believes that the median pay ratio is consistent with 300
the company’s pay, reward and progression policies. Base salaries
of all employees, including our Executive Directors, are set with 260
reference to a range of factors including market practice, experience
and performance in role. 220
Supplemental/Additional Ratios
180
GSK’s CEO pay ratio is likely to vary, potentially significantly, over
time since it will be driven largely by CEO variable pay outcomes. 140
In line with our reward principles, the CEO has a larger portion of her
pay based on performance than the individuals at P25, P50 and 100
P75. This means that depending on GSK’s performance the ratio 31.12.08 31.12.09 31.12.10 31.12.11 31.12.12 31.12.13 31.12.14 31.12.15 31.12.16 31.12.17 31.12.18
could increase or decrease significantly. The Committee believes GSK Total Return GSK Pharma Peers FTSE 100
that our senior executives should have a significant proportion of Total Return Index* Total Return Index
their pay directly linked to performance. * This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.107
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Additional remuneration disclosures
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO Shareholder votes on remuneration matters
The table below shows most recent shareholder votes in respect
Emma Walmsley UK Employees
of the Remuneration report and Remuneration policy.
2018
£000 % change % change Votes
Salary 1,028 2.5% 2.5% Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
2018 AGM cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million)
Benefits 234 (12.03)% 0%
Remuneration report 2.9 90.4 9.59 752
Annual bonus 1,912 24.16% 8%
2017 AGM
For the wider UK employee population, the salary increase includes Remuneration policy 3.4 95.23 4.77 66
the annual salary review as well as any additional changes in the
External appointments for Executive Directors
year, e.g. on promotion. UK employee benefits are unchanged on
the previous year as there have been no changes to our benefit
The Board encourages Executive Directors to hold one listed
policies or levels. It does not reflect any changes to the level of
company external directorship (or equivalent) each as they
benefits an individual may have received as a result of a change in
become established in their roles, to broaden their experience
role, e.g. promotion. The UK population was considered to be the
and development, from which they may retain any fees. Any such
most relevant comparison as it most closely reflects the economic
appointments are considered by the Nominations Committee and the
environment encountered by the CEO.
Board, in line with the company’s policy on external appointments, to
Relative importance of spend on pay ascertain the nature and scope of the appointments and ensure they
would not cause an actual or potential conflict of interest, and that
The table shows total employee pay and the Group’s dividends paid the individual Executive Director continues to meet their existing
to shareholders. commitments to GSK. It is the company’s policy that remuneration
2018 2017 earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual.
£m £m
The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that Dr Hal Barron
Total employee pay 9,440 9,122
remains connected to the life sciences community and has therefore
Dividends 3,927 3,906
approved his appointment to the boards of GRAIL Inc (a private
The figures in the table above, which reflect payments made company), and Juno Therapeutics Inc (a NASDAQ listed company).
during each year and the impact of movements in exchange Prior to his appointment to GRAIL, Dr Barron was a director of Juno
rates, are as set out on pages 158 and 164. However, until its acquisition by Celgene Corporation in March 2018.
dividends declared in respect of 2018 were £3,935 million
(2017 – £3,911 million) an increase of 0.5%. Company Position For period Fees earned
Juno Therapeutics Inc Non-Executive January to March $29,232
Total employee pay is based on 96,851 employees, the average (NASDAQ listed) Director 2018
number of people employed during 2018 (2017 – 99,349). GRAIL, Inc Non-Executive From August 2018 $5,914
(private company) Director
Service contracts
The table below sets out the relevant dates of the Executive
Directors’ service contracts, which are available for review at the
company’s registered office during office hours and on gsk.com.
Each Executive Director’s service contract contains a 12-month
notice period, as set out in our Remuneration policy.
Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
Emma Walmsley 29.03.17 01.04.17 30.06.34
Simon Dingemans 08.09.10 04.01.11 30.04.28
Dr Hal Barron 16.12.17 01.01.18 31.12.24
Iain Mackay 18.09.18 14.01.19 n/a108
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2019
Salary Long Term Incentive plans
The Committee determined the following salary increases taking Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) awards
into account the average increase for the wider workforce: The table below provides details of the mandatory deferral into the
DABP of 50% of 2018 annual bonus payments and the associated
2019 % change awards granted. The shares awarded have no performance
Wider workforce(1) – 2.5 conditions but must be held for three years, regardless of
Emma Walmsley(2) £1,110,348 8 continued employment.
Simon Dingemans £772,800 –
% of total bonus 2019 DABP award
Iain Mackay £850,000 n/a deferred into shares (number shares) (number ADS)
Dr Hal Barron $1,742,500 2.5 Emma Walmsley 50 61,813
Simon Dingemans 50 44,215
(1) Based on the average increase budget for employees below the level of CET in the UK.
(2) A s referenced in the Chairman’s annual statement following shareholder consultation the Dr Hal Barron 50 37,120
Committee has decided to adjust Ms Walmsley’s pay to reflect her development and
performance in role. Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards
The table below provides details of awards granted under the PSP:
Benefits
2019 PSP award 2019 PSP award
No significant changes to the provision of benefits are proposed (% of salary) (number shares) (number ADS)
for 2019. For full details of the policy in relation to benefits, please Emma Walmsley 550 404,592
refer to the details in the 2017 Remuneration policy report on pages Iain Mackay 400 225,255
137 to 146 of the 2016 Annual Report, available at www.gsk.com Dr Hal Barron 500 217,161
in the Investors section.
Performance measures
Pension The metrics for the PSP awards remain unchanged. The 2019
awards will continue to be based on three equally weighted
The table below provides an overview of the pension arrangements
measures:
for each ongoing Executive Director in 2019.
– R&D new product performance;
Pension contribution
– adjusted free cash flow; and
Emma Walmsley 20% of base salary and matching contributions of 5%
Iain Mackay on the first £33,333 of salary in accordance with the terms – relative TSR.
of the plan open to all employees, and 20% of base salary
As in prior years, targets for R&D new products are commercially
in lieu of pension on salary in excess of £33,333
sensitive at the time of grant. However, the Committee intends to
Dr Hal Barron 38% of base salary.
disclose targets in full following the end of the performance period.
In addition, from 1 January 2019, a combined contribution
rate under the 401(k) and ESSP plans of 6% (2% core In addition, the Committee will continue to provide shareholders
contribution plus a match of up to 4%) of total base salary with interim performance updates for this element over the course
and bonus, less the bonus deferred under the DABP. of the performance period.
Annual bonus TSR will continue to be measured against global pharmaceutical
peers. For achieving threshold performance, 25% of each award will
No significant changes to the operation of the Annual bonus plan, continue to vest in respect of the R&D new product performance
in accordance with the shareholder approved 2017 Remuneration and AFCF performance measures. The relative TSR vesting
policy, are proposed for 2019. schedule for the 2019 awards has been revised as follows:
Target Maximum Vesting Schedule for the Vesting Schedule for the
Emma Walmsley Ranking position 2019 awards 2018 awards
Iain Mackay 100% 200% 1st, 2nd or 3rd 100% 100%
Dr Hal Barron 4th 70% 72%
5th 40% 44%
The financial measure is Adjusted Group PBIT, which represents Median (Threshold vesting) 25% 30%
a weighting of 70% for the Annual Bonus Plan. The individual 6th or below 0% 0%
performance measure represents the remaining weighting of 30%.
Inevitably, targets linked directly to the financial and strategic plan The TSR comparator group remains unchanged from that shown
are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not consider it on page 103 in respect of the 2016 awards.
appropriate to disclose annual bonus targets during the year as it The adjusted free cash flow targets for the 2019 awards are as follows:
may result in competitive harm. However, details of the performance
targets will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the 2019 Target % vesting
Annual Report. Maximum £13.91bn 100%
£13.31bn 75%
£12.10bn 50%
Threshold £11.74bn 25%109
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2019 continued
Shareholdings versus Share Ownership Requirement (SOR) In addition to the above, Simon Dingemans will be required to
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of maintain a shareholding equal to his share ownership requirement
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant for at least 12 months after leaving the company.
holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive Directors are required Remuneration arrangements for CFO Designate
to continue to satisfy these share ownership requirements for a
Iain Mackay joined GSK as Chief Financial Officer Designate on
minimum of 12 months after leaving GSK.
14 January 2019, and is an Executive Director. A summary of his
Share ownership vs SOR (multiples of base salary) remuneration is set out below:
Notes
Emma Walmsley 4.2x 6.5x
Base salary £850,000 The comparator group for pay for the
CFO position is the UK cross-industry
Simon Dingemans 3.0x 10.7x comparator group.
Annual bonus £850,000 The on-target bonus would be 100%
Dr Hal Barron(1) 3.0x with a maximum of 200% as for the
outgoing CFO.
0 2x 4x 6x 8x 10x
Award of LTIs £1,700,000 This assumes an expected value of 50%
SOR 31 December 2018 shareholding
of an award of performance shares under
(1) Dr Hal Barron was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018, at which the company’s 2017 Performance Share
point he had a shareholding of 1,644 GSK ADS. Plan at a 4x multiple of base salary as for
the outgoing CFO.
Payments for loss of office (audited) Share Ownership 300% of This is in line with GSK’s 2017
Requirement base salary Remuneration policy.
No loss of office payments were made in 2018. (SOR)
Termination arrangements for CFO Pension 20% of base Pension is in line with GSK’s 2017
As announced in 2018, Simon Dingemans will leave the Board in salary and Remuneration policy.
matching
May 2019. As Simon Dingemans is a voluntary leaver, he will not
contributions
receive any severance payment when he leaves the company.
Salary, bonus and outstanding incentive awards will be treated in Benefits Benefits will be in line with GSK’s 2017
accordance with the shareholder approved 2017 Remuneration policy. Remuneration policy.
Full disclosure of all payments made upon cessation will be included There were no buy-out arrangements.
in the 2019 Annual report on remuneration.
Remuneration element Summary of treatment
Annual bonus Will not receive any bonus for 2019.
PSP and DABP Will not be granted PSP awards in 2019, but 50%
of his 2018 bonus will be deferred into DABP.
Outstanding PSP and Any awards not vested prior to Simon Dingemans’
DABP matching awards departure will lapse when he leaves GSK.
DABP deferred Awards for bonuses deferred in respect of 2018 and
bonus awards prior years will vest at the normal vesting dates.
Payments to past Directors (audited)
As set out in our 2016 Annual Report, Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui left the Board on 31 March 2017 by mutual agreement.
In accordance with the Remuneration policy, approved by shareholders in 2014, their 2015 PSP awards and 2015 DABP awards vested
following the one-year anniversary of their termination dates in 2018 under the terms of the Executive Financial Recoupment Policy.
Dr Moncef Slaoui Sir Andrew Witty
Number of % vested in ADS price Equating to Number of % vested in Share price Equating to
ADS awarded July 2018 $ $ shares awarded April 2018 £ £
2015 PSP 108,725 69 40.85 4,441,444 2015 PSP 357,352 69 14.21 5,077,972
2015 DABP 9,937 69 40.85 405,929 2015 DABP 25,122 69 14.21 356,984
Other benefits: the grossed up cost of the post employment Other benefits: the grossed up cost of the post employment
financial planning provided following his leaving the company financial planning and home security following his leaving the
was $45,809. company was £23,184.110
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
Remuneration governance
Role of the Committee The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and attends
all meetings. Other attendees at the Committee include:
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration
Committee attendees
policy so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its
executives. Regular Attends as
Attendee attendee required
The Remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to ensure that it CEO ✓
is consistent with the company’s scale and scope of operations,
CFO ✓
supports the business strategy and growth plans and helps drive
Head of Human Resources ✓
the creation of shareholder value.
Head of Reward ✓
Terms of reference Committee Adviser (PwC) ✓
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the Judy Lewent and Vindi Banga, as members of the Audit & Risk
company’s website. The terms of reference are reviewed at least and Remuneration Committees, provide input on the Audit & Risk
annually and were last revised in January 2019 to reflect best Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and oversight of
practice, particularly in respect of the new UK Corporate any risk factors relevant to remuneration decisions.
Governance Code.
Adviser to the Committee
Governance
The company undertook a full commercial tender process during
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to 2018 and appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as
be independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with independent adviser to the Committee with effect from 6 September
the UK Corporate Governance Code. 2018. PwC replaced Willis Towers Watson LLP (WTW) who served
as independent adviser for the first part of 2018. Both PwC and
Membership WTW are members of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and,
as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to
The members of the Committee, together with their appointment executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The code of conduct
dates, are set out below: can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
Committee members Committee member since PwC resigned as the Group’s statutory auditor after GSK’s 2017
Annual Report was signed in March 2018 and provided other
Urs Rohner 1 January 2015
consulting and assurance services during the time they have been
Chair (Chair since 7 May 2015)
the Committee’s independent advisers. WTW provided additional
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 market data to the Committee and also provided other HR consulting
Dr Vivienne Cox 1 January 2017 services to the company prior to PwC’s appointment. In line with the
protocols agreed and set by the Committee Chair under which PwC
Judy Lewent 1 January 2013
and WTW provided their advice, the Committee is satisfied that such
Committee meetings usually include a closed session, during which advice has been objective and independent.
only members of the Committee are present. Other individuals may During their respective tenures in 2018, PwC and WTW have
also be invited to attend Committee meetings during the year. provided independent commentary on matters under consideration
Executives and other Committee attendees are not involved in any by the Committee and updates on market practice and legislative
decisions, and are not present at any discussions, regarding their requirements. PwC’s and WTW’s fees for advice during that period,
own remuneration. which were charged on a time and materials basis, were £51,250
and $144,880 respectively. The Committee is satisfied that this did
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are
not compromise either firm’s independence.
given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 68 to 70.
See page 72 for Committee member attendance levels.
Committee evaluation
The Committee’s annual evaluation was facilitated by the Company
Secretary, who interviewed Committee members on behalf of the
Committee Chair. It was concluded that the Committee continued
to operate effectively. In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s
work, it was agreed that the Committee will examine the philosophy
underpinning the remuneration policy framework when reviewing our
policy for approval at the 2020 AGM.111
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Remuneration governance continued
What the Committee did during 2018
Areas of Committee focus Items discussed
Remuneration policy – Remuneration impact of 2018 major Group restructuring
The Committee sets the broad structure for the Remuneration policy – Engagement with shareholders
and determines the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the – Employee consultation on setting policy and pay
Chairman and other corporate officers for Board approval.
Salary review – Remuneration environment (including wider employee trends)
The Committee periodically reviews and considers the remuneration – Executive Director and CET benchmarking, competitiveness
environment of Executive Directors and CET, approving annual and GSK comparator groups
adjustments as necessary. – Executive Director and CET salary recommendations and
increases for 2019
– Setting remuneration for Iain Mackay
Annual bonus – CEO, Executive Director and CET 2017 bonus recommendations
The Committee is responsible for setting specific performance and 2018 bonus objectives
measures for the Annual bonus.
LTI plans – LTI performance outcomes and vesting of LTI awards for CET
The Committee is responsible for approving LTI plan rule changes, and below
grants, assessments of performance, and the vesting of LTI awards – LTI grants for CET and below
for the Executive Directors, CET and below.
Governance and other areas of focus – Committee evaluation process
The Committee adheres to a robust remuneration governance – 2017 Remuneration report
framework, ensuring alignment between internal actions and – Remuneration considerations and committee programme for 2018
external reporting/compliance requirements.
– AGM and Remuneration report feedback, the external remuneration
environment and performance target disclosure for incentive plans
– Chairman’s fees
– 2018 Remuneration report disclosures, including CEO pay ratio
– Remuneration Committee external adviser tender process
– Gender pay gap reporting
– Recruitment policy briefing112
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
2018 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors’ fees that applied during 2018 are set
out in the table below:
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non-Executive
Per annum
Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid by other
Standard annual fee £85,000
companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to the limits
contained in GSK’s Articles of Association. Supplemental fees
Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
Chairman’s fees Senior Independent Director £30,000
Scientific/Medical Experts
The Chairman, Philip Hampton, is paid a fee of £700,000 per annum, Chairs of the Remuneration, Corporate
of which he has elected to take 25% in GSK shares. The Chairman’s Responsibility and Science Committees
fees were reviewed during the year but were not changed.
Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental £7,500 per meeting
travel to meetings
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed during the year following
the last increase in January 2013 and it was decided not to make any
change at this time. A minimum of 25% of fees will continue to be
delivered as shares or ADS deferred until the Non-Executive Director
steps down from the Board.
The audited table below sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and shares or
ADS. Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan are set out on page 113. Non-Executive Directors’ fees that are
paid in a currency other than Sterling are converted using an average exchange rate that is reviewed from time to time. Benefits comprise the
grossed up cash value of travel and subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to attendance at Board and
Committee meetings. For overseas-based Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK.
2018 2017
Non-Executive Directors’
Fixed fees Fixed fees
emoluments (000) (audited)
Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay Cash Shares/ADS Benefits Total pay
Vindi Banga £65 £50 £3 £118 – £123 £8 £131
Dr Vivienne Cox £64 £21 £11 £96 £69 £23 £14 £106
Lynn Elsenhans (1) $56 $175 $90 $321 £15 £137 £70 £222
Dr Laurie Glimcher – $231 $73 $304 – $69 $32 $101
Dr Jesse Goodman $208 $69 $115 $392 $216 $72 $140 $428
Philip Hampton £525 £175 £19 £719 £525 £175 £20 £720
Judy Lewent $230 $77 $130 $437 $239 $80 $157 $476
Urs Rohner £86 £29 £23 £138 £92 £31 £16 £139
Former directors:
Professor Sir Roy Anderson (2) £39 £7 £18 £64 £92 £31 £9 £132
Sir Deryck Maughan (3) – – £5 £5
Dr Daniel Podolsky (3) – – £7 £7
Hans Wijers (4) – – £8 £8 – – £6 £6
(1) Lynn Elsenhans elected to receive her Non-Executive Director fees in USD in 2018.
(2) Professor Sir Roy Anderson retired from the Board on 3 May 2018.
(3) Dr Daniel Podolsky and Sir Deryck Maughan retired from the Board on 5 May 2016.
(4) Hans Wijers retired from the Board on 7 May 2015.113
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The interests of the Directors of the company in office during 2018 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are shown in the tables below.
Total share plan interests as at 31 December 2018 or date of retirement
Total directors’ interests as at Shares/ADS Options
31 December (a)Unvested (a)Unvested
2018 and not Unvested and and not Unvested and
1 March or date of 1 January subject to subject to subject to subject to Vested but Exercised in
2019 leaving 2018 performance performance performance performance not exercised the year
Executive Directors
Shares
Emma Walmsley(a,b,c,d,e,f) 416,292 281,726 147,665 – 1,073,823 129,348 67,255 137,040 21,096
Simon Dingemans(a,b,c,d,e,f) 734,039 540,663 329,298 161,231 711,292 118,238 74,368 266 29,465
Sir Patrick Vallance(a,b,c,d,f) 404,201 303,733 – 539,829 98,955 55,844 – 34,344
ADS
Dr Hal Barron(a,c,e) 38,764 1,644 1,644 – 242,727 – – – –
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors
Total directors’ interests as at Number of shares or ADS
31 December 1 January Dividends Dividends
2018 2018 reinvested reinvested
1 March or date of or date of after year 31 December during the Allocated 31 December
2019 leaving appointment end 2018 Paid out year & elected 2017
Non-Executive Directors
Shares(g)
Professor Sir Roy Anderson(h) – 32,152 29,306 – – 32,152 1,785 1,061 29,306
Vindi Banga 58,326 56,753 50,802 1,091 21,553 – 779 5,172 15,602
Dr Vivienne Cox 3,857 3,352 1,804 150 3,352 – 75 1,473 1,804
Philip Hampton 56,208 51,157 37,398 2,125 44,239 – 1,631 12,128 30,480
Urs Rohner 8,748 7,785 5,591 382 7,885 – 301 1,993 5,591
ADS(g)
Lynn Elsenhans 33,134 30,587 24,398 1,497 29,587 – 1,225 4,964 23,398
Dr Laurie Glimcher 7,562 5,961 350 202 5,961 – 5 5,606 350
Dr Jesse Goodman 5,167 4,538 2,610 206 4,538 – 89 1,839 2,610
Judy Lewent 25,459 24,271 21,630 718 14,105 – 609 2,033 11,463
a) U nvested options not subject to performance of 129,348 for Emma Walmsley represent bonus deferrals of 128,604 and Share Save options of 744.
U nvested shares not subject to performance of 161,231 for Simon Dingemans represent 100% of the shares awarded at the end of the three-year performance
period for the 2015 PSP grant, together with subsequent re-invested dividends. These shares are subject to a further two-year holding period. Unvested options
not subject to performance of 118,238 for Mr Dingemans represent bonus deferrals of 117,782 and Share Save options of 456.
Unvested options not subject to performance of 98,955 for Sir Patrick Vallance represent bonus deferrals.
b) T otal Directors’ interests includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline Share Reward Plan. During 2018, Emma Walmsley and Simon Dingemans
were each awarded 103 shares under the plan. The total number of shares held within the plan are as follows:
Share Reward Plan (Shares) 1 March 2019 31 December 2018 1 January 2018
Emma Walmsley 1,546 1,496 1,219
Simon Dingemans 1,999 1,943 1,642
Sir Patrick Vallance – – 3,263
Dr Hal Barron is a US employee and is not eligible to participate in the Share Reward Plan, as this is only open to UK employees.114
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
c) T otal directors’ interests includes options over shares or ADS resulting from the deferral of bonus (and the subsequent re-investment of dividends) under the
DABP. The totals shown in the table below include bonus deferrals, but exclude any unvested matching awards which are subject to ongoing performance
criteria. The amounts represent the gross share and ADS balances prior to the sale of any shares or ADS to satisfy tax liabilities.
31 December 2018
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (Bonus deferrals) 1 March 2019 or date of retirement 1 January 2018
Emma Walmsley Shares 159,409 128,604 75,959
Simon Dingemans Shares 120,406 117,782 87,575
Dr Hal Barron ADS 37,120 – –
Sir Patrick Vallance Shares – 98,955 75,092
d) T otal directors’ interests at 1 March 2019 includes any shares or ADS which vested due to performance being met under elements of the DABP and PSP
(2016-2018 awards), less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts (see pages 115 to 118 for further details).
e) Share Save Plan
For Emma Walmsley and Simon Dingemans the unvested options not subject to performance include holdings of 744 and 456 respectively in the Share
Save Plan, in which Ms Walmsley and Mr Dingemans participate on the same terms as all other employees. Ms Walmsley was granted 744 options under
the plan on 29 November 2018.
f) T he following table sets out details of options (all nil-cost options under the DABP) exercised during 2018 by Executive Directors.
Number of shares Date of Market price Gain on exercise
Type of award Date of grant under option exercise Grant price at exercise (000)
Emma Walmsley
DABP – deferral 11.02.15 12,482 16.02.18 – £13.16 £164
DABP – matching 11.02.15 8,614 16.02.18 – £13.16 £113
21,096 £277
Simon Dingemans
DABP – deferral 11.02.15 17,435 16.02.18 – £13.12 £229
DABP – matching 11.02.15 12,030 16.02.18 – £13.12 £158
29,465 £387
Sir Patrick Vallance
DABP – deferral 11.02.15 20,322 19.02.18 – £13.18 £268
DABP – matching 11.02.15 14,022 19.02.18 – £13.18 £185
34,344 £453
In respect of nil-cost options under the DABP, the bonus which is deferred by the Director is recorded as remuneration (under Annual bonus) for the year to
which it relates. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises this remuneration, the total of the amounts received in re-invested dividends
prior to vesting and the gains or losses resulting from movements in the share price between the dates of grant and exercise for the initial bonus amount
deferred and the dates of dividend reinvestment and exercise for the re-invested dividends.
For the matching element of the DABP, the remuneration of the Executive Director is recorded in the year that the performance period ends and represents
the number of vested shares multiplied by the price at vesting. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises the total of this remuneration
and the gain or loss resulting from the movement in the share price between vesting and exercise.115
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
For Emma Walmsley:
– The gain of £164,263 recorded following the exercise of the 12,482 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2014 comprises
remuneration of £159,715 recorded in 2014 as Annual bonus and a net gain of £4,548 relating to the re-investment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £113,360 recorded following the exercise of the 8,614 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of
£111,982 recorded in 2017 in relation to the DABP (see table below) and an investment gain of £1,378 relating to the movement in the share price between
the vesting and exercise dates.
For Simon Dingemans:
– The gain of £228,747 recorded following the exercise of the 17,435 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2014 comprises
remuneration of £223,065 recorded in 2014 as Annual bonus and a net gain of £5,682 relating to the re-investment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £157,833 recorded following the exercise of the 12,030 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of
£156,390 recorded in 2017 in relation to the DABP (see page 116) and an investment gain of £1,444 relating to the movement in the share price between
the vesting and exercise dates.
For Sir Patrick Vallance:
– The gain of £267,844 recorded following the exercise of the 20,322 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2014 comprises
remuneration of £260,015 recorded in 2014 as Annual bonus and a net gain of £7,829 relating to the re-investment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £184,810 recorded following the exercise of the 14,022 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of
£182,286 recorded in 2017 in relation to the DABP (see page 116) and an investment gain of £2,524 relating to the movement in the share price between
the vesting and exercise dates.
g) F or Non-Executive Directors, total interests include shares or ADS received as part or all of their fees under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation
Plan. Note that dividends received on shares or ADS under the plan during 2018 and January 2019 were converted into shares or ADS as at 6 February 2019.
h) P rofessor Sir Roy Anderson retired from the Board on 3 May 2018.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in office during 2018 in respect of DABP matching awards.
Market price at grant and at vesting represent the closing share prices from the business day prior to those dates.
Performance period
Emma Walmsley – Shares
2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019
Market price at grant £15.20 £13.59 £15.77
Unvested at 31 December 2017 12,306 30,474 33,179
Dividends reinvested 176 1,724 1,878
Vested (8,614) – –
Lapsed (3,868) – –
Unvested at 31 December 2018 – 32,198 35,057
Dividends reinvested 398 432
Vested (19,234) –
Lapsed (13,362) –
Unvested at 1 March 2019 – 35,489
Vested shares
Number of shares 8,614 19,234
Market price at vesting £13.00 £15.66
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2017 £112 –
Remuneration for 2018 – £301116
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards continued
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019
Market price at grant £15.20 £13.59 £15.77
Unvested at 31 December 2017 17,188 40,244 30,143
Dividends reinvested 245 2,276 1,705
Vested (12,030) – –
Lapsed (5,403) – –
Unvested at 31 December 2018 – 42,520 31,848
Dividends reinvested 524 392
Vested (25,398) –
Lapsed (17,646) –
Unvested at 1 March 2019 – 32,240
Vested shares
Number of shares 12,030 25,398
Market price at vesting £13.00 £15.66
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2017 £156 –
Remuneration for 2018 – £398
Performance period
Sir Patrick Vallance – Shares
2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019
Market price at grant £15.20 £13.59 £15.77
Unvested at 31 December 2017 20,035 32,590 22,468
Dividends reinvested 286 997 687
Vested (14,022) – –
Lapsed (6,299) (33,587) (23,155)
Unvested at 31 December 2018 – – –
Dividends reinvested
Vested
Lapsed
Unvested at 1 March 2019 – – –
Vested shares
Number of shares 14,022 –
Market price at vesting £13.00 –
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2017 £182 –
Remuneration for 2018 – –117
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Performance Share Plan awards
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in office during 2018 in respect of PSP awards.
Market price at grant and at vesting represent the closing share prices on those dates.
Performance period
Emma Walmsley – Shares
2015-2017 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019 2018-2020 2019-2021
Market price at grant £15.20 £14.01 £13.59 £15.46 £12.91 £15.12
Unvested at 31 December 2017 130,642 67,715 223,024 361,379 – –
Granted – – – – 437,997 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – – £5,655 –
Dividends reinvested 1,865 967 12,639 20,479 18,305 –
Vested (91,430) (47,391) – – – –
Lapsed (41,077) (21,291) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2018 – – 235,663 381,858 456,302 –
Dividends reinvested 2,915 4,723 5,645 –
Vested (140,762) – – –
Lapsed (97,816) – – –
Unvested at 1 March 2019 – 386,581 461,947 –
Granted – – – 404,592
Face value at grant (000) – – – £6,117
Unvested at 8 March 2019 – 386,581 461,947 404,592
Vested shares
Number of shares 91,430 47,391 140,762
Market price at vesting £13.00 £13.00 £15.66
Total
Gain: (000) (000) (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2017 £1,189 £616 – £1,805
Remuneration for 2018 – – £2,204 £2,204
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019 2018-2020
Market price at grant £15.20 £13.59 £15.46 £12.91
Unvested at 31 December 2017 221,136 239,499 197,574 –
Granted – – – 239,442
Face value at grant (000) – – – £3,091
Dividends reinvested 3,158 13,573 11,197 10,007
Vested (154,763) – – –
Lapsed (69,531) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2018 – 253,072 208,771 249,449
Granted – – –
Face value at grant (000) – – –
Dividends reinvested 3,130 2,582 3,086
Vested (151,161) – –
Lapsed (105,041) – –
Unvested at 1 March 2019 – 211,353 252,535
Vested shares
Number of shares 154,763 151,161
Market price at vesting £13.00 £15.66
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2017 £2,012 –
Remuneration for 2018 – £2,367118
GSK Annual Report 2018
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Performance period
Sir Patrick Vallance – Shares
2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019
Market price at grant £15.20 £13.59 £15.46
Unvested at 31 December 2017 224,309 276,745 255,484
Granted – – –
Dividends reinvested 3,203 8,468 7,817
Vested (156,984) – –
Lapsed (70,528) (285,213) (263,301)
Unvested at 31 December 2018 – – –
Vested shares:
Number of shares 156,984
Market price at vesting £13.00
Gain: (000)
Remuneration for 2017 £2,041
Iain Mackay was appointed to the Board from 14 January 2019. The following table provides details of PSP awards granted to him on
11 March 2019:
Performance period
Iain Mackay – Shares
2019-2021
Market price at grant £15.12
Number of shares 225,255
Face value at grant (000) £3,406
Unvested at 8 March 2019 225,255
Performance period
Dr Hal Barron – ADS
2018-2020 2019-2021
Market price at grant $36.46 $40.12
Unvested at 31 December 2017 – –
Granted 233,132 –
Face value at grant (000) $8,500 –
Dividends reinvested 9,595 –
Unvested at 31 December 2018 242,727 –
Dividends reinvested 2,953 –
Unvested at 1 March 2019 245,680 –
Granted – 217,161
Face value at grant (000) – $8,172
Unvested at 8 March 2019 245,680 217,161119
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (the group). For this purpose,
the group is defined as the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, other members of the CET and the Company Secretary. For the financial
year 2018, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during which they served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2018 (£)
Total compensation paid 29,142,577
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 906,937
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 363,756
During 2018, members of the group were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s various executive share plans, as set out in the
table below. To align the interests of Senior Management with those of shareholders, Directors and Senior Management are required to build
and maintain significant holdings of shares in GSK over time. CET members are required to hold shares to an equivalent multiple of two times
base salary, and are required to continue to satisfy these share ownership requirements for a minimum of 12 months after leaving GSK.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2018 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan – – 19,804 1,827
Performance Share Plan 2,002,494 438,542 229,872 37,819
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) 101,327 6,320 6,600 673
Share Value Plan(b) 11,060 – – –
At 1 March 2019, the group and their PCAs had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Interests awarded under the
various executive share plans are described in Note 43 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on page 212.
Interests at 1 March 2019 Shares ADS
Owned 1,382,607 141,889
Unexercised options 149,382 7,670
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 646,472 81,555
Performance Share Plan 3,359,591 562,043
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) 120,454 13,021
Share Value Plan(b) 36,200 6,320
(a) Notional shares and ADS.
(b) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.120
GSK Annual Report 2018
2017 Remuneration policy summary
Executive Director Remuneration policy
The following is a summary of this policy.
Salary T o provide a core reward for the role. Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre individuals needed to deliver
the Group’s strategic priorities.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Individual’s role, experience and performance and There is no formal maximum limit and, ordinarily, salary The overall performance of the
independently sourced data for relevant comparator increases will be broadly in line with the average increases individual is a key consideration
groups considered when determining salary levels. for the wider GSK workforce. when determining salary
increases.
However, increases may be higher to reflect a change in the
scope of the individual’s role, responsibilities or experience.
Salary adjustments may also reflect wider market conditions
in the geography in which the individual operates.
Details of current salary levels are set out in the
Annual report on remuneration on pages 99 and 108.
Benefits Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre individuals to execute the business strategy.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Executive Directors are generally eligible to receive There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs can None.
benefits in line with the policy for other employees fluctuate depending on changes in provider cost and
which may vary by location. These include travel individual circumstances.
allowances (including spouse/partner travel), healthcare,
Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the
life assurance/death in service (where not provided as
Annual report on remuneration on page 99.
part of the individual’s pension arrangements), personal
financial advice and contractual post-retirement benefits.
Pension Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement income.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Pension arrangements are structured in accordance The policy for all current Executive Directors and new external None.
with the plans operated in the country in which the recruits is:
individual is likely to retire. Where the individual UK: – 2 0% of salary contribution to defined
chooses not to become a member of the pension contribution plan and further 5% in matched
plan, cash in lieu of the relevant pension contribution contributions subject to any relevant cap and
is paid instead. in line with implementation principles for other
members of the plan; or
New Executive Directors in the UK will be entitled
– 20% of salary cash payment in lieu of pension
either to join the defined contribution pension plan
contribution.
or to receive a cash payment in lieu of pension
US: E ligible for the same benefits as other US senior
contribution. Where an individual is a member
executives:
of a GSK legacy defined benefit plan, a defined
– C ash Balance Pension Plan and Supplemental
contribution plan or an alternative pension plan
Cash Balance Pension Plan, including Executive
arrangement and is subsequently appointed to
Pension Credit, provide maximum contribution
the Board, he or she may remain a member of
of 38% of base salary across all pension plans.
that plan.
– G SK 401(k) plan (formerly the US Retirement
Savings Plan) and the Executive Supplemental
Savings Plan with core contributions of 2% of
salary and bonus and matched contributions of
4% of salary and bonus.
Annual To incentivise and recognise execution of the business strategy on an annual basis. Rewards the achievement
bonus of stretching annual financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Financial, operational and business targets are The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors Based on a combination of
set at the start of the year by the Committee and is 200% of salary. For threshold performance, the bonus financial targets and individual/
bonus levels are determined by the Committee pay-out will be nil. strategic performance
based on performance against those targets. objectives, with the majority
For target performance, the bonus payout will be 50%
of the bonus assessed against
Individual objectives are set at the start of the of the maximum opportunity.
the financial measures. The
year by the Committee and performance against
weighting between different
objectives is assessed by the Committee.
measures will be determined
Executive Directors are required to defer 50% each year according to
of any bonus earned into shares, or ADS as business priorities.
appropriate, for three years. Deferred shares
vest at the end of the three years.121
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Executive Director Remuneration policy continued
LTI awards T o incentivise and recognise delivery of the longer term business priorities, financial growth and increases in shareholder value
compared to other pharmaceutical companies. To provide alignment with shareholder interests, a retention element, to encourage
long-term shareholding and discourage excessive risk taking.
PSP
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Conditional awards are made annually with vesting The normal maximum award limits that may be granted Based on a combination of
dependent on the achievement of performance under the PSP to an individual in any one year are set financial, share price related
conditions over three years and are subject to an out in the table below: and strategic performance
additional two-year holding period. conditions which are aligned
% of salary
to the company’s strategic
The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting CEO 650 plan. Up to 30% of awards
outcome (either up or down) to ensure that the
CFO 400 will vest at threshold
overall outcome reflects underlying business
Other Executive Directors 500 performance.
performance over the vesting period.
DABP (current)
Operation
For bonus payments from 2018 onwards, Executive
Directors are required to defer 50% of any bonus
earned into shares for three years.
DABP (legacy, pre 2018)
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
For bonus payments until 2017, Executive Directors were These deferred shares were matched up to a maximum Outstanding matching
required to defer 25% of any bonus earned into shares of 1:1 subject to the achievement of performance awards are subject to the
for three years. They could also voluntarily defer up to an conditions over three years. Matching awards were same measures as awards
additional 25% of any bonus earned. conditional shares or nil-cost options and eligible for made under the PSP in any
dividend equivalents. given year.
Share Ownership Requirements (SOR)
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are required to continue to satisfy these requirements
they are required to build and maintain significant holdings of shares in for a minimum of 12 months following retirement from GSK.
GSK over time. The SOR requirement for the CEO is 650% of salary,
and the SOR requirement for other Executive Directors is 300% of salary.
Clawback and malus
In the event of a ‘triggering event’ (e.g. significant misconduct by way of In respect of each financial year, the Remuneration Committee will
violation of regulation, law, or a significant GSK policy, such as the Code disclose whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has exercised
of Conduct), the company will have the ability to claw back up to three clawback or malus. Disclosure will only be made when the matter has been
years’ annual and deferred bonuses as well as vested and unvested subject to public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully resolved,
LTIs. In addition, if a participant in the new 2017 PSP or DABP, which where it is legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made
shareholders approved at the 2017 AGM, is subject to an investigation, without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore shareholders.
then the vesting of their awards may be delayed until the outcome of that
Additionally, where there has been continuity of responsibility between
investigation.
initiation of an adverse event and its emergence as a problem, the adverse
A separate Recoupment Committee has been established to investigate event should be taken into account in assessing annual bonus awards and
relevant claims of misconduct. The Recoupment Committee exercises this LTI vesting levels in the year the problem is identified and for future
authority for the wider employee base. It comprises of senior executives periods. The Remuneration Committee (or Recoupment Committee) may
with relevant oversight and appropriate experience, including the Senior make appropriate adjustments to individual annual bonuses as well as
Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance, and the Senior Vice grant and vesting levels of LTI awards to reflect this.
President & General Counsel.122
GSK Annual Report 2018
2017 Remuneration policy summary continued
Scenarios for future total remuneration
The charts opposite provide illustrations of the future total
remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of Emma Walmsley, CEO (£000)
the remuneration opportunity granted to each of them in 2019
under the policy. A range of potential outcomes is provided for each
Executive Director and the underlying assumptions are set out below. 10,000 £9.88m
62%
All scenarios:
8,000
– 2019 base salary has been used.
– 2018 benefits and pension figures have been used for the CEO, 6,000
CFO and the Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D, i.e.
based on actual amounts received in 2018 in respect of the 4,000 £4.19m
36%
ongoing policy. As the CFO Designate was not in role during 22%
2018, the benefits value for this role is based on the value of 2,000 £1.55m 27%
benefits for the CFO in 2018 and on the pension arrangements
100% 37% 16%
to apply in 2019.
0
Fixed Expected Maximum
– The amounts shown under value of PSP awards are based on
the relevant multiples for 2019. They do not include amounts
in respect of dividends reinvested and do not factor in changes
Simon Dingemans, CFO(1) (£000)
to share price over the vesting period.
Fixed:
– None of the pay for performance (Annual bonus and PSP) 6,000
would be payable.
4,000
Expected:
– For the Annual bonus, it is assumed that target performance
2,000
is achieved.
£0.37m £0.37m £0.37m
– For the PSP awards, threshold levels of vesting are assumed. 0 100% 100% 100%
Fixed Expected Maximum
Maximum:
– It is assumed that the Annual bonus would be payable at the
Iain Mackay, CFO Designate (£000)
maximum level and that the awards under the PSP would vest
in full.
£6.26m
6,000
54%
4,000
£2.86m
30% 27%
2,000
£1.16m 30%
100% 40% 19%
0
Fixed Expected Maximum
Dr Hal Barron, Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D ($000)
16,000 $15.79m
55%
12,000
8,000 $7.51m
29% 22%
4,000 $3.59m
23%
100% 48% 23%
0
Fixed Expected Maximum
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP
(1) CFO will leave GSK in May 2019 and is not eligible for bonus or a PSP award for
2019. The figures represent his actual remuneration for January through 8 May 2019.123
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Non-Executive Director Remuneration policy
The company’s Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors, set out below, was approved on 4 May 2017
at GSK’s Annual General Meeting.
Chairman’s To provide an inclusive flat rate fee that is competitive with those paid by other companies of equivalent size and complexity subject to the
fees limits contained in GSK’s Articles of Association.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making There is no formal maximum. However, fees are reviewed None
recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the annually and set by reference to a review of the Chairman’s
Chairman. The Chairman does not participate in discussions performance and independently sourced market data.
in respect of his fees.
Details of current fees are set out in the Annual report
Fees can be paid in a combination of cash and/or GSK on remuneration on page 112.
shares or ADS via the Non-Executive Directors’ Share
Allocation Plan.
Basic fees As above
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and As with the Chairman, fees are reviewed annually and None
making recommendations to the Board on the fees payable set by reference to independently sourced data.
to the company’s Non-Executive Directors.
Details of current fees are set out in the Annual report
A minimum of 25% is delivered in the form of GSK shares on remuneration on page 112.
or ADS, using the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation
Plan which delivers the shares or ADS to the Non-Executive
Director following retirement from the Board.
Supplemental To compensate Non-Executive Directors (other than the Chairman) for taking on additional Board responsibilities or undertaking
fees intercontinental travel.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Additional fees for Committee Chairmen, the Senior Details of supplemental fees are set out in the None
Independent Non-Executive Director, Science and Annual report on remuneration on page 112.
Medical Experts and intercontinental travel.
Benefits To facilitate execution of responsibilities and duties required by the role.
Operation Opportunity Performance measures
Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors There is no formal maximum limit as benefit costs can None
are incurred in the normal course of business in relation fluctuate depending on changes in provider costs and
to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other individual circumstances.
GSK-hosted events. For overseas-based Non-Executive
Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the
Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK.
Annual report on remuneration on page 112.
In the event it is necessary for business purposes, whilst
not normal practice, Non-Executive Directors may be
accompanied by their spouse or partner to these meetings
or events. The costs associated with the above are all met
by the company and, in some instances, they are deemed
to be taxable and therefore treated as benefits for the
Non-Executive Director.124
GSK Annual Report 2018
2017 Remuneration policy summary continued
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy
The Remuneration policy (Policy) is set out on pages 138 to 146 of (ii) before the Policy came into effect, provided that the terms
the 2016 Annual Report and it is intended that the Policy for GSK’s of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved
Executive and Non-Executive Directors will operate for a period of Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; or
three years from the date of approval at the company’s Annual
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the
General Meeting on 4 May 2017.
company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was
The Committee wrote the Policy principally in relation to the not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst company. For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the Committee
taking into account the possible recruitment of a replacement or satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an
an additional Executive Director during the operation of the Policy. award over shares or ADS, the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’
The Committee intends the Policy to operate for the period set out at the time the award is granted.
above in its entirety. However, it may after due consideration seek
Performance Share Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan awards
to change the Policy during this period, but only if it believes it is
are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which the
appropriate to do so for the long-term success of the company,
award has been granted. The Committee may adjust or amend
after consultation with shareholders and having sought shareholder
awards only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
approval at a general meeting.
This includes making adjustments to reflect one-off corporate
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration events, such as a change in the company’s capital structure.
payments and/or payments for loss of office (including exercising
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy
any discretions available to it in connection with such payments)
(for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes
notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy where the
or to take account of a change in legislation) without obtaining
terms of the payment were agreed:
shareholder approval for such amendments.
(i) before the AGM on 7 May 2014 (the date the company’s
first shareholder-approved Directors’ remuneration policy came Statement of consideration of shareholder views
into effect);
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and
holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss and
take feedback on its Remuneration policy and governance matters.
Basis of preparation
The Annual report on remuneration has been prepared in The Annual report on remuneration has been approved
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). In accordance
with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual report on
Urs Rohner
remuneration are subject to audit: total remuneration figures for
Remuneration Committee Chairman
Executive Directors including further details for each element of
remuneration (salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long-term 11 March 2019
incentive awards); Non-Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments
received in the year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests
in GSK share plans; payments to past Directors; payments for loss
of office; and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which
the opinion thereon is expressed on page 137. The remaining
sections of the Annual report on remuneration are not subject to
audit nor are the pages referred to from within the audited sections.112255
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001188 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 126
Independent Auditor’s report 128
Financial statements 140
Notes to the financial statements 144
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP 219126
GSK Annual Report 2018
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 are
Remuneration report and the Group and parent company financial included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed form and
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. made available on our website. The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on our website in
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and
statements for each financial year. The Directors are required
dissemination of financial statements. Access to the website is
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with
available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by
be different.
the European Union. In preparing the Group financial statements,
the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as issued by Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed
the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The Directors in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2018
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared
applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS
Practice). Under company law the Directors must not approve the
as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets,
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and its profit or loss
for that period. – the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
which represent the management report, include a fair review of
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to:
the development and performance of the business and the position
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of the company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a
consistently; description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are Disclosure of information to auditor
reasonable and prudent;
The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each
– state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as
confirmed that:
adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the – so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
Group financial statements; of which the company’s auditor is unaware; and
– state with regard to the parent company financial statements that – he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent information and to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of
company financial statements; and that information.
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
company will continue in business. Going concern basis
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
Pages 38 to 64 contain information on the performance of the
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
borrowing facilities. Further information, including Treasury risk
the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that
management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and
the Group financial statements and the Remuneration report comply
hedging activities, is given in Note 42 to the financial statements,
with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. Having assessed the
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group
principal risks and other matters considered in connection with the
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December statements.
2018, comprising principal statements and supporting notes,
are set out in the ‘Financial statements’ on pages 140 to 218 of this
report. The parent company financial statements for the year ended
31 December 2018, comprising the balance sheet for the year
ended 31 December 2018 and supporting notes, are set out on
pages 219 to 222.
The responsibilities of the auditor in relation to the financial
statements are set out in the Independent Auditor’s report on
pages 128 to 139.127
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ statement of responsibilities continued
Internal control
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal
control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this Annual
Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described
in the Corporate Governance section on pages 65 to 94. The Board
further considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair,
balanced and understandable, and provides the information
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and
performance, business model and strategy.
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
the auditor has considered the Directors’ statement of compliance in
relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code
which are specified for their review.
Annual Report
The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018,
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration report,
the Financial statements and Additional information for investors, has
been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Philip Hampton
Chairman
11 March 2019128
GSK Annual Report 2018
Independent Auditor’s report to the members
of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion We confirm that non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical
Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent company.
In our opinion:
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
– the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc (the ‘Parent and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘Group’) give a true and fair
Summary of our audit approach
view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent company’s
affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Group’s profit for First year audit transaction
the year then ended; This is the first year we have been appointed as auditors to the
Group. We undertook a number of transitional procedures to
– the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in
prepare for the audit. Before we commenced our audit we had to
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards
establish our independence of the Group which involved ceasing
(IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued
a number of commercial relationships. We used the time prior to
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB);
commencing our audit to meet with key members of management
– the Parent company financial statements have been properly to gain an understanding of the business, its issues and the
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted environment in which it operates.
Accounting Practice including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure
We became independent of the Group and commenced our audit
Framework’; and
planning on 4 July 2017. From this date we attended all Audit & Risk
– the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Committee meetings, initially in an observer capacity. We worked
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the alongside the former auditor and reviewed their working papers to
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. gain an understanding of the Group’s processes, their audit risk
We have audited the financial statements which comprise the: assessment, the controls on which they relied for the purposes of
issuing their audit opinion, as well as understanding the evidence
Group:
they obtained on the key complex or significant judgements which
– consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018;
they made.
– consolidated income statement for the year then ended;
In September 2017, we held a two day meeting of audit partners
– consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year and senior staff who would be responsible for undertaking the audits
then ended; in the most significant locations in the Group. The main purpose of
this meeting was to outline our central audit approach including the
– consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then
use of our data analytics tools, discuss possible significant audit
ended;
risks and brief our teams on the Group’s key processes, systems
– consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended; and and structure. A subsequent strategic planning meeting was held
in September 2018 with the same participants to take into account
– notes 1 to 46 to the financial statements, which includes the
any current period updates that impacted our audit approach.
accounting principles and policies.
Parent company: During these meetings, we also heard directly from Group
management on the changes impacting the business to inform
– balance sheet as at 31 December 2018;
our audit planning and risk assessment.
– statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and
Key audit matters
– notes A to N to the financial statements, which includes the The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were:
accounting principles and policies.
– valuation of acquisition-related liabilities;
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the
– valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals;
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting – valuation of intangible assets;
framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent – valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing
company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom and updates to the impacts of the US Tax Reform; and
Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure
– IT systems which impact financial reporting.
Framework’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice). Key audit matters considered by the Group’s auditor in the prior
year were broadly aligned with the items identified above, but also
Basis for opinion
included consideration of litigations and investigations into the
Group’s commercial operations, which are less significant in the
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
current year.
on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the auditor’s Materiality
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements
our report. was £270 million, which was determined on the basis of a
composite benchmarking approach. This approach considers
We are independent of the Group and the Parent company in
profit before tax, adjusted profit before tax, revenue and net cash
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our
flows from operations.
audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial
Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to Risk assessment at group level
listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical We applied a top-down risk assessment methodology which
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. considers the enterprise, industry and financial risks in the context of
the financial statements129
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
As part of this process, we spent time understanding the key The coverage obtained from this strategy is summarised as follows:
financial and business processes of the Group and how they are Profit Total
implemented across the organisation. We used our audit analytics Benchmark Revenue before tax assets
tools to analyse client data and the flow of business transactions Covered by market - specific procedures 66% 73% 83%
to inform our fact-based risk assessment. Covered by review at Group level 34% 27% 17%
Audit scope and execution The residual consists of components or legal entities each with
We structured our approach to the audit to reflect how the Group annual revenue (turnover) less than 1.8% of the total Group revenue.
is organised as well as ensuring our audit was both effective and These entities and components are non-significant components that
risk focused. It can be summarised into the following areas which individually and in the aggregate do not present a reasonable
enabled us to obtain the evidence required to form an opinion on possibility of risk of material misstatement.
the Group and Parent company financial statements:
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks
– Risk assessment and audit planning at a Group level.
and viability statement
The central control and common systems throughout most of the
Group, enabled us to structure the audit more centrally. In addition Going concern
to appointing partners for each of three businesses, we also had We have reviewed the directors’ statement in notes 1 and A to the
partners coordinate the component and legal entity audits in each financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate
country. These global business partners met regularly with the to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them
relevant management to understand strategy and matters which and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Group’s
arose throughout the year that could have impacted on the and Company’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least
financial reporting. The regular meetings we had with members 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
of the Internal Audit, the internal Legal Counsel and the Global
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group,
Ethics & Compliance team allowed us to understand their work,
its business model and related risks including where relevant the
to review their reports and to enhance our risk assessment.
impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting
– Audit work performed at global shared service centres.
framework and the system of internal control. We evaluated the
A significant amount of the Group’s operational processes which
directors’ assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going
cover financial reporting are undertaken in shared service centres.
concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions
Our central team, which included senior individuals responsible
used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors’ plans for
for each of the global processes, coordinated our audit work at
future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
the shared service centres in scope for the Group audit, to ensure
we developed a good understanding of the end-to-end view of We are required to state whether we have anything material to add
the key processes that supported material account balances, or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing
classes of transactions and disclosures within the Group financial Rule 9.8.6R(3) and report if the statement is materially inconsistent
statements. We then evaluated the effectiveness of internal with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
controls over financial reporting for these processes and We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or
considered the implications for the remainder of our audit work. draw attention to in respect of these matters.
– Audit work executed at component and individual
Principal risks and viability statement
legal entities.
Based solely on reading the directors’ statements and considering
The following components were subject to market-specific audit
whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the
procedures as well as the assessment of the internal controls over
course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation
financial reporting: Belgium; Canada; France; Germany; Italy;
of the directors’ assessment of the Group’s and the Company’s ability
Japan; Spain; Switzerland; United Kingdom and United States.
to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we
The Group audit team was in active dialogue throughout the year
have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
with the component audit teams responsible for the audit work
under the direction and supervision of the Group audit team. This – the disclosures on pages 34 to 36 that describe the principal
included determining whether the work was planned and risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated;
performed in accordance with the overall Group audit strategy – the directors’ confirmation on page 87 that they have carried out
and the requirements of our Group audit instructions to the a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group,
components. As part of supervising the work of the components, including those that would threaten its business model, future
the Group audit team visited all the component countries, as well performance, solvency or liquidity; or
as locations of all shared service centre audits.
– the directors’ explanation on page 44 as to how they have
– Audit procedures undertaken at a Group level and on assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have
the Parent company. done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and
In addition to the above, we also performed audit work at Group their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation
and on the Parent company financial statements, including but not that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its
limited to the consolidation of the Group’s results, the preparation liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment,
of the financial statements, certain disclosures within the Directors including any related disclosures drawing attention to any
remuneration report, litigation provisions and exposures in addition necessary qualifications or assumptions.
to management’s entity level and oversight controls relevant to
We are also required to report whether the directors’ statement relating
financial reporting. We also carried out analytical procedures to
to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is
confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of
materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of
the remaining components not subject to the market-specific audit We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or
procedures. draw attention to in respect of these matters.130
GSK Annual Report 2018
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of
the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing
the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of acquisition-related liabilities Audit procedures performed
In recent years the Group has completed a number of significant We performed the following audit procedures where relevant:
transactions which resulted in the recognition of material and
– made enquiries of key individuals from the senior leadership
judgemental acquisition-related liabilities. The most significant
team, commercial strategy team and key personnel involved in
of these liabilities were:
the budgeting and forecasting process, to discuss, challenge
– ViiV Healthcare Shionogi contingent consideration liability and evaluate management’s evidence to support key inputs
(‘ViiV CCL’): The Group completed the acquisition of the and assumptions;
remaining 50% interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint
– challenged the business assumptions applied by management
venture in 2012. Upon completion, the Group recognised a
in estimating sales forecasts, including benchmarking of sales
contingent consideration liability for the fair value of the
forecasts to external data. This included analysis of the results
expected future payments to be made to Shionogi. As at
of demand studies conducted by third parties on new drug
31 December 2018, the liability was valued at £5,937 million
launches. We assessed the results of clinical studies and
(2017 – £5,542 million); and
the target medicine profile of new drugs to understand their
– Pfizer put option: The Group granted Pfizer a put option in relative position in the market and to assess any sources of
2009, enabling Pfizer to put its non-controlling interest in contradictory evidence;
ViiV Healthcare back to the Group in the future. As at
– assessed the historical accuracy of management’s forecasts
31 December 2018, the liability was valued at £1,240 million
including estimates of the probability of success of pipeline
(2017 – £1,304 million).
products;
In the prior year, the acquisition-related liabilities also included the
– benchmarked sales forecasts against analyst expectations to,
Consumer Healthcare joint venture put option. The liability
both assess the estimations made by management and, for
represented the present value of the expected redemption price
consideration of any contradictory evidence available;
of a put option over Novartis’ non-controlling interest in Consumer
Healthcare joint venture. On 3 May 2018, the Consumer – assessed the reasonableness of valuation-specific assumptions
healthcare joint venture put option was de-recognised following used by management, including exchange rates, discount rate,
approval by shareholders of the acquisition of Novartis’ valuation multiples and whether these assumptions were
non-controlling interest in the Consumer healthcare joint venture consistent with how a well-informed independent third party
and therefore this liability did not exist at the year end. would value these liabilities;
The valuations of the liabilities are sensitive to changes in – assessed the appropriateness of the accounting for acquisition-
exchange rates, discount rates and sales forecasts, which are related liabilities; and
based upon management’s assessment of the probability of
– evaluated the disclosures in respect to these liabilities included
success of pipeline products, expected launch dates, subsequent
in the notes to the financial statements to determine whether
sales volumes and pricing.
they were compliant with the requirements of the relevant
The key risks in the valuation of the acquisition-related liabilities, accounting standards.
specifically the sales forecast used to value the ViiV CCL and
Internal controls over financial reporting
particularly the dolutegravir-based regimens as, in our view, these
We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness
give rise to the most material source of estimation uncertainty.
of key controls identified over the valuation of the acquisition-related
The acquisition related liabilities are disclosed as a key liabilities, such as the review and approval of both the long-range
accounting judgement and estimate in note 3 of the Group forecast and the valuation models.
financial statement with further disclosures provided in notes 27,
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
38, 39 and 42. The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk
Whilst there are significant commercial risks to the forecasts for the
Committee report within the Corporate Governance section of
future sales of dolutegravir-based regimens and related products,
the Annual Report.
we are satisfied that the valuations of associated liabilities are within
an acceptable range of values.
The approach to valuing the acquisition-related liabilities was
consistent with prior periods and we are satisfied that the valuations
of the acquisition-related liabilities are reasonable and consistent
with IFRS.131
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of US Returns and Rebates (RAR) accruals Audit procedures performed
In the US the Group sells to customers under various commercial We performed the following audit procedures:
and government mandated contracts and reimbursement
– assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates
arrangements that include rebates, chargebacks and a right of
against actual outcomes to evaluate the impact and inform our
return for certain products. As such, revenue recognition reflects
assessment of the current year accrual;
gross-to-net sales adjustments which involve significant estimation
and judgement. These adjustments are known as the Returns and – developed an expectation of the accrual balance for each of the
Rebates (‘RAR’) accruals and are a source of estimation and key channels, based on historical claims received adjusted to
uncertainty which could have a material impact on reported revenue. reflect market changes in the period including an assessment of
The three most significant payer channels within the RAR accrual are the time lag between the initial point of sale and the claim receipt.
managed healthcare organisations, Medicaid and Medicare Part D. We then used this expectation to consider the appropriateness of
management’s ending accrual position;
The two main causes of significant estimation uncertainty are:
– recalculated the accrual recognised to determine that it is
– the utilisation rates (the portion of total sales which will be made
consistent with the assumptions determined through
into each payer channel) estimated by management in recording
management’s process;
the accruals. The utilisation assumption is the most challenging
of the key assumptions used to derive the accrual given that it – substantively tested individual utilisation rates on a sample basis;
is influenced by market demand and other factors outside the
– evaluated, through monitoring of news events and industry
control of the Group; and
developments, the appropriateness of period end adjustments
– the time lag between the point of sale and the point at which to the liability made as part of the ongoing review of the estimated
exact rebate amounts are known to the Group (upon receipt of accrual;
a claim). Those payer channels with the longest time lag result
– evaluated and benchmarked the methodology applied by
in a greater accrued period, and as such a greater level of
management in estimating the accrual against industry practice;
estimation uncertainty.
and
The level of estimation uncertainty is also impacted by significant
– monitored the market for any significant events in the period, giving
shifts in channel mix driven by changes in the competitive
a particular focus to any potential generic competition in respect
landscape.
to Advair, one of the Group’s most significant products. A generic
In the US Pharmaceuticals business in 2018, £10,774 million of Advair competitor product was not approved by the US Food and
RAR deductions were made to gross revenue of £18,227 million, Drug Administration (‘FDA’) until the end of January 2019, and
resulting in net revenue of £7,453 million. The balance sheet therefore there was no additional risk associated with market
accrual at 31 December 2018 accrual for the combined events in determining the 2018 Advair RAR liability.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses amounted to
Internal controls over financial reporting
£4,356 million.
We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of
Returns and rebates are disclosed as a key accounting judgement key controls over the estimation of RAR accruals including the review
and estimate in note 3 of the Group financial statement with further of forecasts and monthly accruals.
disclosures provided in note 27. The matter is also discussed in the
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
Audit & Risk Committee report within the Corporate Governance
Based on our assessment of the accuracy of historical estimates
section of the Annual Report.
made by management by comparing them to actual rebates claimed,
we determined that the estimates have been accurate in the past
giving further assurance over the strength of management’s process
for estimating the liability at the reporting date.
We are satisfied with the appropriateness of the RAR accruals at the
period end, and that management’s estimated liability is reasonable.132
GSK Annual Report 2018
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of intangible assets Audit procedures performed
As at 31 December 2018, the Group held £16,156 million of We assessed the appropriateness of the carrying value of the
intangible assets (including licences, patents, trademarks and intangible assets by performing the following audit procedures:
brand names, but excluding goodwill and computer software).
– assessed the valuation methodology used by management,
The recoverable value of these intangible assets relies on certain
with involvement of our valuation specialists, and tested the
assumptions and estimates of future trading performance which
mechanical accuracy of the impairment models;
impact the valuation.
– evaluated the reasonableness of the valuation assumptions,
The assumptions applied by management in determining the
such as discount rates, used by management through reference
recoverable value include the discount rate, future sales growth
to external market data;
rate, the impact of the expiry of patents on the product and
potential product obsolescence. Changes in these assumptions – reviewed analyst reports and other external sources of
could lead to an impairment to the carrying value of the intangible information to identify any contradictory evidence which
assets. could indicate an impairment is required;
The assets most at risk of material impairment were identified using – challenged the appropriateness of the business assumptions
sensitivity analysis on key assumptions and a review of potential used by management, such as sales growth and the probability
triggering events that could be indicative of an impairment in the of success of products in development by assessing externally
carrying value of associated assets. available reference data to look for contradictory evidence,
evaluate past performances where relevant and assessing
The disclosures relating to other intangible assets are included in
historical accuracy of the forecast produced by management;
note 19 of the Group financial statements. The matter is also
discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report within the – enquired of and challenged management on the commercial
Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report. strategy associated with the products to ensure that it was
consistent with the assumptions used in estimating future
cash flows; and
– considered whether events or transactions that occurred after
the balance sheet date but before the reporting date affect the
conclusions reached on the carrying values of the assets and
associated disclosures.
Internal controls over financial reporting
We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness
of key controls over the impairment review process including the
review and approval of forecasts and review of valuation models.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
Our audit procedures did not identify any additional impairments.
We are satisfied that management’s intangible impairments
estimates are reasonable and in accordance with IFRS.133
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
Valuation of uncertain tax positions, including transfer pricing Audit procedures performed
and updates to the impacts of the US Tax Reform With the support of tax specialists, we assessed the
The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and there are appropriateness of the uncertain tax provisions by performing the
open tax and transfer pricing issues and exposures with UK following audit procedures:
and overseas tax authorities that give rise to uncertain tax
– assessed and challenged provisions for uncertain tax positions,
positions. The range of possible outcomes for provisions and
and focused our work on those jurisdictions where the Group
contingencies can be wide and management is required to make
has the greatest potential exposure and where the highest level
certain judgements in respect of estimates of tax exposures and
of judgement is required;
contingencies in order to assess the adequacy of tax provisions.
– involved our transfer pricing specialists to review the transfer
At 31 December 2018, the Group has recorded provisions of
pricing methodology of the Group and associated approach
£1,082 million in respect of uncertain tax positions (2017 –
to provisioning;
£1,175 million).
– involved our UK, US and international tax and transfer specialists
On 22 December 2017, the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was
to challenge the conclusions reached by management, both in
enacted. There was limited guidance provided by the US
relation to the expected outcome and the financial impact;
Treasury on how to apply the principles of the reform in practice
and, as such, judgement was required as at 2017 year end. – considered evidence such as the actual results of previous
Management continued to monitor the impact of the reform outturns, recent and current tax authority audits and enquiries,
on the US business and the associated accounting records. third party tax advice where obtained and our tax specialists
Given the complexity and uncertainty relating to US tax reform, own knowledge of market practice in relevant jurisdictions; and
management is required to make judgements, assumptions and
– involved Deloitte US Tax specialists to determine the
interpretations of the tax law. Following additional guidance
reasonableness of the judgements in respect of the US
released by the Internal Revenue Service during 2018, the
Tax Reform.
Group reduced its estimate of the 2017 impact of US tax reform
by £125 million. Internal controls over financial reporting
We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness
Valuation of uncertain tax positions is disclosed as a key
of key controls over preparation of tax packs and tax consolidation.
accounting judgement and estimate in note 3 of the Group
financial statements with further disclosures included in note 14. Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
The matter is also discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee We are satisfied that management’s judgements in relation to
report within the Corporate Governance section of the Annual uncertain tax positions and the related disclosures are in
Report. accordance with IFRS. From our work we concluded that
management’s judgements were prudent, consistent with prior
periods, within an acceptable range and continue to be
appropriately recorded.134
GSK Annual Report 2018
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter
IT systems which impact financial reporting Audit procedures performed over IT systems
In our audit plan we set out to place a significant level of reliance We performed the following risk assessment and audit procedures
on the IT systems, underpinned by our ability to rely on effective to test IT controls over the in scope IT systems, which are those
IT controls. The IT systems within the Group form a critical systems that we considered key for financial reporting purposes:
component of the Group’s financial reporting activities and
– identified the IT risks for each IT system based on our
impact all account balances. IT controls, in the context of our
understanding of the flows of transactions and the IT environment;
scope for the financial audit, primarily relate to user access
security and change control. The purpose of such controls is to – determined whether each general IT control, individually or
prevent inappropriate changes being made to IT systems in in combination with other controls, is appropriately designed
relation to application functionality, transactional processing and to address the associated IT risk; and
direct changes to underlying data. GSK place significant reliance
– tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness
on their IT systems and the associated controls.
of the relevant general IT controls.
IT control deficiencies were noted around user access
management for certain in scope IT systems and the associated
infrastructure. The existence of these deficiencies in the year
resulted in a heightened risk that data, reports and automated
system functionality (e.g. calculations) from the affected systems
might not be reliable.
We assessesed the impact of the deficiencies noted around user
access management on all account balances to determine the
specific impact on our audit plan.
Key observations communicated to the Audit & Risk Committee
During the year, the Group implemented a remediation plan to
address the user access deficiencies. This primarily involved the
removal of inappropriate access together with the implementation of
appropriate privileged access management processes and controls
which is planned to be fully complete in 2019. The Group has layers
of business process controls at many levels which help to mitigate
this IT risk. An additional programme to identify and validate these
controls, as well as some enhancement to these controls was
completed during 2018.
The IT deficiencies were reported to the Audit & Risk Committee
throughout the year and have been disclosed in the Audit & Risk
Committee section of the Annual Report. The matter is also
discussed in the Audit & Risk Committee report within the
Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
We were satisfied that the mitigating business process controls
addressed the risks of material misstatement.135
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the audit of the financial statements continued
Our application of materiality
We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of
a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and
in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Group financial statements Parent company financial statements
Materiality £270 million £67 million
Basic for In determining our benchmark for materiality we Materiality was determined using the total assets
determining considered the metrics used by investors and other benchmark.
materiality readers of the financial statements. In particular, we
considered: Statutory profit before tax, Adjusted profit The materiality used by the former auditor in the audit
before tax, Revenue and Net cash flows from of the prior year’s Parent company financial statements
operations. However, given the importance of all these was £70 million.
metrics, we concluded that a composite approach was
most appropriate, based on the range of materiality we
determined using the benchmarks listed above.
Using professional judgement we have determined
preliminary materiality to be £270 million to apply
conservatism to our determination given that this is the
first year of our audit.
Metric %
Statutory profit before tax 5.6
Adjusted profit before tax* 3.3
Revenue 0.9
Net cash inflow from operating activities 3.2
* A reconciliation between the Statutory profit before tax and
Adjusted profit before tax is detailed in the Adjusting Items
section of the Strategic Report.
The materiality used by the former auditor in the audit
of the prior year’s Group financial statements was
£290 million.
Rationale for We calculated the range for each of the relevant The Parent company holds the Group’s investments and
the benchmark benchmarks and used these ranges in exercising our is not in itself profit-oriented. The strength of the balance
applied professional judgement to determine materiality. Our sheet is the key measure of financial health that is
chosen materiality of £270 million was deemed to be important to shareholders since the primary concern for
appropriate taking into account various metrics used by the Parent company is the payment of dividends. Using
investors and other readers of the financial statements. a benchmark of total assets is therefore most
appropriate.
The component materiality allocated to the in-scope
components ranged between £67 million and
£189 million.
The range of materiality allocated across components
by the former auditor in the audit of the prior year’s
Group financial statements was between £15 million
and £154 million.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £10 million (2017 –
£10 million was used by the previous auditor) as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative
grounds. We also report to the Audit & Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of
the financial statements.136
GSK Annual Report 2018
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Other information
The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report,
other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether
the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material
misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
We summarise below our work in relation to areas of the other information including those areas upon which we are specifically required to
report:
Matters we are specifically required to report
Our responsibility Our reporting
Fair, balanced and understandable
Consider whether the statement given by the directors that they consider the We consider that the directors’ statement is materially
Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and consistent with our knowledge obtained from the audit.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to
assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy
is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained from the audit.
Audit & Risk Committee report
Consider whether it deals appropriately with those matters that we reported All matters we reported have been appropriately covered in
to the Audit & Risk Committee. the Audit & Risk Committee report.
Directors’ statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance
Code (‘the Code’) We did not identify any such matters.
Consider whether the parts of the Directors’ statement required under the
Listing Rules relating to the Parent company’s compliance with the Code
containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with
Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) properly discloses any departure from a relevant
provision of the Code.
Viability statement
Review the confirmation and description in the light of the knowledge As set out in the section ‘Conclusions relating to going
gathered during the audit, including making enquiries and considering the concern, principal risks and viability statement’, we have
directors’ processes used to support the statements made. nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect
of these matters.
Consider if the statements are aligned with the relevant provisions of the
UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’).
Directors’ Remuneration report
Report whether the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited As set out in the section ‘Opinions on other matters
is properly prepared and the disclosures specified by the Companies Act prescribed by the Companies Act 2006’, in our opinion, the
have been made. part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has
been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Strategic report and Directors’ report
Report whether they are consistent with the audited financial statements As set out in the section ‘Opinions on other matters
and are prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. prescribed by the Companies Act 2006’, in our opinion,
Report if we have identified any material misstatements in either report in based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the
the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the Parent information in these reports is consistent with the audited
company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit. financial statements and has been prepared in accordance
with applicable legal requirements.137
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Other information continued
Other reporting on other information
Our responsibility Our reporting
Alternative performance measures (APMs)
APMs are measures that are not defined by generally accepted accounting Based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, in
practice (GAAP) and therefore are not typically included in the financial our opinion:
statement part of the Annual Report. The Group use APMs, such as adjusted
– the use, calculation and disclosure of APMs is consistent
profit, free cash flow and constant currency growth rates in some of its
with the Group’s published definitions and policies;
quarterly and annual reporting of financial performance.
– the use of APMs in the Group’s reporting results is
We have reviewed and assessed management’s calculation and reporting of
consistent with the guidelines produced by ESMA
these metrics to assess consistency with the Group’s published definitions
and FRC; and
and policies for these items.
– there is an appropriate balance between the use of
We have also considered and assessed whether the use of APMs in the
statutory metrics and APMs, together with clear definitions
Group’s reporting results is consistent with the guidelines produced by
and reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting.
regulators such as the European Securities and Markets Authority (‘ESMA’)
guidelines on the use of APMs and the FRC Alternative Performance Measures
Thematic Review published in November 2017.
We also considered whether there was an appropriate balance between the
use of statutory metrics and APMs, in addition to whether clear definitions and
reconciliation for APMs used in financial reporting.
Approach to Brexit
Consider whether the Brexit risks have been appropriately reflected. Based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, in
our opinion, the risks in relation to Brexit have been
The Group’s approach to Brexit is outlined in the Strategic report
appropriately reflected.
(page 36).
Dividends and distribution policy
Consider whether the dividends policy is transparent and the dividends paid Based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, in
are consistent with the policy. our opinion, the dividends policy is appropriately disclosed
and dividends paid are consistent with the policy.138
GSK Annual Report 2018
Independent Auditor’s report continued
Responsibilities of directors – discussing among the engagement team including significant
component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists,
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement,
including tax, valuations, pensions, IT and industry specialists
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view,
statements and any potential indicators of fraud; and
and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary
to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from – obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations
that had a direct effect on the financial statements, such as
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible
provisions of the UK Companies Act, pensions legislation and tax
for assessing the Group’s and the Parent company’s ability to
legislations or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of
continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters
the Group, including the Good Clinical Practice, the FDA
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of
regulations, General Data Protection requirements, Anti-bribery
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group
and corruption policy and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
Audit response to risks identified
alternative but to do so.
Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following:
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial
– reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to
statements
supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether laws and regulations discussed above;
the financial statements as a whole are free from material – enquiring of management, the Audit & Risk Committee and
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s in-house and external legal counsel concerning actual and
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level potential litigation and claims;
of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
– performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material
unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
misstatement due to fraud; and
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic – reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. and reviewing internal audit reports.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of We have also considered the risks noted above in addressing the risk
detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below. of fraud through management override of controls:
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the – testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other
financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org. adjustments;
uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
– assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting
auditor’s report.
estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of
– evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions
detecting irregularities, including fraud that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design potential fraud risks to all engagement team members and significant
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of
obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout
a basis for our opinion. the audit.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
irregularities
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act
In identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in
2006
respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with
laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: In our opinion, the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
– enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit & Risk Companies Act 2006.
Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting
documentation, concerning the Group’s policies and procedures In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the
relating to: audit:
– identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations – the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’
and whether they were aware of any instances of non- report for the financial year for which the financial statements are
compliance; prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
– detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they – the Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been prepared
have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud; in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
– the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of
or non-compliance with laws and regulations; the Parent company and their environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the
strategic report or the directors’ report.139
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Matters on which we are required to report by
exception
Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if,
in our opinion:
– we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit; or
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
– the Parent company financial statements are not in agreement with
the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in
our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not
been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be
audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Other matters
Auditor tenure
Following the recommendation of the Audit & Risk Committee, we
were appointed by the Company at its annual general meeting on 3
May 2018 to audit the financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for
the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial
periods. The period of uninterrupted engagement including previous
renewals and reappointments of the firm is accordingly one year.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the
Audit & Risk Committee
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit
& Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with
ISAs (UK).
Use of our report
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have
formed.
The Parent company has passed a resolution in accordance with
section 506 of the Companies Act that the senior statutory auditor’s
name should not be stated.
Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom
11 March 2019140
GSK Annual Report 2018
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2018
2018 2017 2016
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 30,821 30,186 27,889
Cost of sales (10,241) (10,342) (9,290)
Gross profit 20,580 19,844 18,599
Selling, general and administration (9,915) (9,672) (9,366)
Research and development (3,893) (4,476) (3,628)
Royalty income 299 356 398
Other operating income/(expense) 7 (1,588) (1,965) (3,405)
Operating profit 8 5,483 4,087 2,598
Finance income 11 81 65 72
Finance expense 12 (798) (734) (736)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 3 94 –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 31 13 5
Profit before taxation 4,800 3,525 1,939
Taxation 14 (754) (1,356) (877)
Profit after taxation for the year 4,046 2,169 1,062
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 637 150
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 1,532 912
4,046 2,169 1,062
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 73.7p 31.4p 18.8p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 72.9p 31.0p 18.6p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2018
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 4,046 2,169 1,062
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 34 (480) 462 646
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 34 – 109 –
Fair value movements on equity investments (14) 251
Deferred tax on fair value movements on equity investments 47 –
Reclassification of fair value movements on equity investments – (42) (245)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of equity investments – (18) 51
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 140 (10) 2
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges (22) – 2
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement (175) – 1
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of cash flow hedges 20 – –
(517) 534 708
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 34 (1) (149) 603
Fair value movements on equity investments 180
Deferred tax on fair value movements on equity investments 10
Remeasurement gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans 728 549 (475)
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit plans (146) (221) 126
771 179 254
Other comprehensive income for the year 34 254 713 962
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,300 2,882 2,024
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 3,878 2,394 1,271
Non-controlling interests 422 488 753
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,300 2,882 2,024141
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet Investor information
as at 31 December 2018
2018 2017
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 11,058 10,860
Goodwill 18 5,789 5,734
Other intangible assets 19 17,202 17,562
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 236 183
Other investments 21 1,322 918
Deferred tax assets 14 3,887 3,796
Derivative financial instruments 42 69 8
Other non-current assets 22 1,576 1,413
Total non-current assets 41,139 40,474
Current assets
Inventories 23 5,476 5,557
Current tax recoverable 14 229 258
Trade and other receivables 24 6,423 6,000
Derivative financial instruments 42 188 68
Liquid investments 31 84 78
Cash and cash equivalents 25 3,874 3,833
Assets held for sale 26 653 113
Total current assets 16,927 15,907
Total assets 58,066 56,381
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 31 (5,793) (2,825)
Contingent consideration liabilities 39 (837) (1,076)
Trade and other payables 27 (14,037) (20,970)
Derivative financial instruments 42 (127) (74)
Current tax payable 14 (965) (995)
Short-term provisions 29 (732) (629)
Total current liabilities (22,491) (26,569)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 31 (20,271) (14,264)
Corporation tax payable 14 (272) (411)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (1,156) (1,396)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (3,125) (3,539)
Other provisions 29 (691) (636)
Derivative financial instruments 42 (1) –
Contingent consideration liabilities 39 (5,449) (5,096)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (938) (981)
Total non-current liabilities (31,903) (26,323)
Total liabilities (54,394) (52,892)
Net assets 3,672 3,489
Equity
Share capital 33 1,345 1,343
Share premium account 33 3,091 3,019
Retained earnings 34 (2,137) (6,477)
Other reserves 34 2,061 2,047
Shareholders’ equity 4,360 (68)
Non-controlling interests (688) 3,557
Total equity 3,672 3,489
The financial statements on pages 140 to 218 were approved by the Board on 11 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Hampton
Chairman142
GSK Annual Report 2018
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2018
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Non-controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2016 1,340 2,831 (1,397) 2,340 5,114 3,764 8,878
Profit for the year – – 912 – 912 150 1,062
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 284 75 359 603 962
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 1,196 75 1,271 753 2,024
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (534) (534)
Dividends to shareholders – – (4,850) – (4,850) – (4,850)
Recognition of liabilities with non-controlling interests – – (2,013) – (2,013) (159) (2,172)
Derecognition of liabilities with non-controlling interests – – 1,244 – 1,244 – 1,244
Changes in non-controlling interests – – 17 – 17 15 32
Shares issued 2 87 – – 89 – 89
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 36 466 (576) (74) – (74)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (381) 381 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 319 – 319 – 319
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 7 – 7 – 7
At 31 December 2016 1,342 2,954 (5,392) 2,220 1,124 3,839 4,963
Profit for the year – – 1,532 – 1,532 637 2,169
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 899 (37) 862 (149) 713
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 2,431 (37) 2,394 488 2,882
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (789) (789)
Contribution from non-controlling interests – – – – – 21 21
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,906) – (3,906) – (3,906)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – (2) (2)
Shares issued 1 55 – – 56 – 56
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 10 581 (656) (65) – (65)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (520) 520 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 333 – 333 – 333
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (4) – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2017 1,343 3,019 (6,477) 2,047 (68) 3,557 3,489
Implementation of IFRS 15 – – (4) – (4) – (4)
Implementation of IFRS 9 – – 277 (288) (11) – (11)
At 31 December 2017, as adjusted 1,343 3,019 (6,204) 1,759 (83) 3,557 3,474
Profit for the year – – 3,623 – 3,623 423 4,046
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 124 131 255 (1) 254
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 3,747 131 3,878 422 4,300
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (570) (570)
Contribution from non-controlling interests – – – – – 21 21
Derecognition of non-controlling interests in Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture – – 4,056 – 4,056 (4,118) (62)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,927) – (3,927) – (3,927)
Realised profits on disposal of equity investments – – 56 (56) – – –
Share of associates and joint ventures realised profits on
disposal of equity investments – – 38 (38) – – –
Shares issued 2 72 – – 74 – 74
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (265) 265 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 360 – 360 – 360
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 2 – 2 – 2
At 31 December 2018 1,345 3,091 (2,137) 2,061 4,360 (688) 3,672143
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement Investor information
for the year ended 31 December 2018
2018 2017 2016
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 4,046 2,169 1,062
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 5,701 6,089 7,044
Cash generated from operations 9,747 8,258 8,106
Taxation paid (1,326) (1,340) (1,609)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 8,421 6,918 6,497
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,344) (1,545) (1,543)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 168 281 98
Purchase of intangible assets (452) (657) (809)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 256 48 283
Purchase of equity investments (309) (80) (96)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 151 64 683
Contingent consideration paid (153) (91) (73)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 – – 17
Disposal of businesses 38 26 282 72
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 (10) (15) (11)
Proceeds from disposal of interests in associates 38 3 196 –
Decrease in liquid investments – 4 –
Interest received 72 64 68
Dividends from associates, joint ventures and equity investments 39 6 42
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,553) (1,443) (1,269)
Cash flow from financing activities
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – (65) (74)
Issue of share capital 33 74 56 89
Purchase of non-controlling interests (9,320) (29) –
Increase in long-term loans 10,138 2,233 –
Repayment of short-term Notes (2,067) (2,636) (865)
Increase in/(repayment of) other short-term loans 81 (564) 1,013
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (28) (23) (18)
Interest paid (766) (781) (732)
Dividends paid to shareholders (3,927) (3,906) (4,850)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (570) (779) (534)
Contributions from non-controlling interests 21 21 –
Other financing cash flows (25) 93 (421)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,389) (6,380) (6,392)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 37 479 (905) (1,164)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,600 4,605 5,486
Exchange adjustments 8 (100) 283
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 479 (905) (1,164)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 4,087 3,600 4,605
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 3,874 3,833 4,897
Cash and cash equivalents reported in assets held for sale 485 – –
4,359 3,833 4,897
Overdrafts (272) (233) (292)
4,087 3,600 4,605144
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business Implementation of IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’
GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the The Group has applied IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ with effect
creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing from 1 January 2018. IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for the
of pharmaceutical products, vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) classification and measurement of financial assets and financial
medicines and health-related consumer products. GSK’s principal liabilities, impairments for financial assets and general hedge
pharmaceutical products include medicines in the following accounting.
therapeutic areas: respiratory, HIV, immuno-inflammation, anti-virals,
Details of these new requirements as well as their impact on the
central nervous system, cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic,
Group’s consolidated financial statements are described below.
anti-bacterials and dermatology.
The Group has adopted IFRS 9 retrospectively but with certain
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS permitted exceptions as detailed below.
Classification and measurement of financial assets
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
The date of initial application was 1 January 2018. The Group has
the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
not applied the requirements of IFRS 9 to instruments that were
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related
derecognised prior to 1 January 2018 and has not restated prior
interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
years. Any difference between the previous carrying amount and the
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued revised carrying amount at 1 January 2018 has been recognised as
by the International Accounting Standards Board. an adjustment to opening retained earnings at 1 January 2018.
Composition of financial statements All financial assets that are within the scope of IFRS 9 are required to
be measured at amortised cost or fair value, with movements through
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling,
other comprehensive income or the income statement on the basis of
the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance
GSK’s business model for managing the financial assets and the
with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements
contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets.
comprise:
IFRS 9 had the following impact on the Group’s assets:
– Consolidated income statement
– The Group has elected to recognise movements in the fair value of
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
equity investments in other comprehensive income under IFRS 9.
– Consolidated balance sheet Investments in equity instruments that were previously classified as
available-for-sale financial assets measured at fair value have been
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity
designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive
– Consolidated cash flow statement income (FVTOCI) under IFRS 9. As a result, fair value movements
– Notes to the financial statements. are now recorded in other comprehensive income along with gains
or losses on disposal of the investments.
Composition of the Group
– The Group’s investments in limited life funds included in Other
A list of the subsidiaries and associates which, in the opinion of investments that were previously classified as available-for-sale
the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or net assets financial assets under IAS 39 and measured at fair value have
of the Group is given in Note 44, ‘Principal Group companies’. been classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss
(FVTPL) under IFRS 9 as the contractual cash flows are not solely
Financial period
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to outstanding.
31 December 2018, with comparative figures for the financial years – Liquid investments that were classified as available-for-sale
from 1 January to 31 December 2017 and, where appropriate, from financial assets measured at fair value under IAS 39 have been
1 January to 31 December 2016. classified as measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9 as they are
Accounting principles and policies held within a business model, the objective of which is to collect
the contractual cash flows.
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
– Investments in money market funds included in Cash and cash
cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as
equivalents that were classified as amortised cost financial assets
stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
under IAS 39 have been classified as FVTPL under IFRS 9 as the
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance contractual cash flows are not solely payments of principal and
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board interest on the principal amount outstanding.
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’.
– The Group’s trade receivables were all classified as financial
Information on the application of these accounting policies,
assets measured at amortised cost under IAS 39. Under IFRS 9,
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3,
the business model under which each portfolio of trade
‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’.
receivables held has been assessed. The Group has portfolios
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with in each of the three business models under IFRS 9: to collect the
generally accepted accounting principles requires management contractual cash flows (measured at amortised cost), to sell the
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported contractual cash flows (measured at FVTPL), and both to collect
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent and to sell the contractual cash flows (measured at FVTOCI).
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.145
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
1. Presentation of the financial statements continued
– Amounts receivable under insurance contracts included in Other Impact of new standards on each financial
non-current assets were held at FVTPL or amortised cost under statement line item
IAS 39. Under IFRS 9, as the contractual cash flows are not
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount The table below shows the amount of adjustment for each financial
outstanding, the amounts receivable are classified as measured statement line item affected by the application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15
at FVTPL. at 1 January 2018.
There were no material changes in carrying value of financial assets As previously IFRS 9 IFRS 15
as a result of these changes in measurement basis. reported adjustments adjustments As restated
£m £m £m £m
Impairment of financial assets
Trade and other receivables 6,000 (15) – 5,985
IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss (ECL) model to be applied
Liquid investments 78 1 – 79
to financial assets rather than the incurred credit loss model required
Other payables - returns (3,463) – (29) (3,492)
under IAS 39. The expected credit loss model requires the Group
and rebates
to account for expected losses as a result of credit risk on initial
Other payables - deferred (240) – 27 (213)
recognition of financial assets and to recognise changes in those
income
expected credit losses at each reporting date.
Deferred tax assets 3,796 3 (2) 3,797
12-month ECLs are applied to all financial assets not measured
at FVTPL except for net trade receivables which are measured
Total effect on net assets 3,489 (11) (4) 3,474
reflecting lifetime ECLs using the simplified approach. An additional
ECL allowance of £15 million for trade receivables was recognised
Fair value reserve 329 (288) – 41
on transition to IFRS 9. There were no other transition adjustments
arising from the change in impairment basis. Retained earnings (6,477) 277 (4) (6,204)
The additional ECL allowance of £15 million at 1 January 2018 has
Total effect on equity 3,489 (11) (4) 3,474
been recognised against opening retained earnings, together with
a related deferred tax impact of £3 million. The £288 million transfer between retained earnings and the
General hedge accounting fair value reserve resulted from the reclassification of previous
The new general hedge accounting requirements retain the three impairment losses on equity investments now designated as
types of hedge accounting which were available under IAS 39: measured at FVTOCI under IFRS 9 from retained earnings to
fair value hedges, cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. the fair value reserve.
However, the effectiveness testing requirements have been The application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 has had no impact on the
simplified. consolidated cash flows of the Group.
The Group has applied the IFRS 9 hedge accounting requirements Parent company financial statements
prospectively from the date of initial application of 1 January 2018.
All existing hedging relationships are eligible, and continued to be The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline
effective, under IFRS 9. plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented
Implementation of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts
on page 219 and the accounting policies are given on page 220.
with customers’
The Group has applied IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with
customers’ with effect from 1 January 2018. IFRS 15 provides a
single, principles-based approach to the recognition of revenue
from all contracts with customers. It focuses on the identification
of performance obligations in a contract and requires revenue to be
recognised when or as those performance obligations are satisfied.
GSK adopted IFRS 15 applying the modified retrospective
approach. IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on the amount
or timing of recognition of reported revenue. At 1 January 2018, a
cumulative adjustment to decrease retained earnings of £4 million
was recognised. In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 15
where the modified retrospective approach is adopted, prior year
results have not been restated.146
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies
Consolidation Where the consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling
interest, exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and
The consolidated financial statements include:
contingent liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill.
– the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the The costs of acquisition are charged to the income statement in the
company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts period in which they are incurred.
– the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries
and joint ventures and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and
associates. Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation
– the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
acquired.
of joint operations.
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
31 December each year.
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non-
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant
controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the non-
activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through
controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary, on a
control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for
case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership percentage
as subsidiaries.
of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity.
Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over, and
Foreign currency translation
rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are accounted for
as joint ventures. Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency
control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified assets of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
and obligations for specified liabilities of the arrangement, the transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are
arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation. Where the Group retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling
has the ability to exercise significant influence over entities, they are at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are included in the
accounted for as associates. The results and assets and liabilities of income statement.
associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill,
financial statements using the equity method of accounting. The
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated
Group’s rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint
into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The
operations are included in the consolidated financial statements in
results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint
accordance with those rights and obligations.
ventures are translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the
Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated from
profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and
the date control ceases.
joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated and arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the
no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries until the Group’s net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate
products are sold to customers outside the Group. The relevant component of equity.
proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, joint
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash
operations and associates is also deferred until the products are
flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which
sold to third parties. Transactions with non-controlling interests are
are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-
adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated
recoverable.
income statement.
Business combinations
Revenue (applicable from 1 January 2018)
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition
The Group receives revenue for supply of goods to external
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
customers against orders received. The majority of contracts that
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
GSK enters into relate to sales orders containing single performance
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and includes
obligations for the delivery of pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer
the fair value of any contingent consideration.
healthcare products. The average duration of a sales order is less
The fair value of contingent consideration liabilities are re-assessed than 12 months.
at each balance sheet date with changes recognised in the income
Product revenue is recognised when control of the goods is passed
statement. Payments of contingent consideration reduce the balance
to the customer. The point at which control passes is determined by
sheet liability and as a result are not recorded in the income statement.
each customer arrangement, but generally occurs on delivery to the
The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of the fair customer.
value of the contingent consideration on acquisition is reported within
Product revenue represents net invoice value including fixed and
investing activities in the cash flow statement and the part of each
variable consideration. Variable consideration arises on the sale of
payment relating to the increase in the liability since the acquisition
goods as a result of discounts and allowances given and accruals for
date is reported within operating cash flows.
estimated future returns and rebates. Revenue is not recognised in
full until it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount
of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur.147
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates and Legal and other disputes
returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and
other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources is
projected market conditions. Once the uncertainty associated with
considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely
the returns and rebates is resolved, revenue is adjusted accordingly.
outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or other expenses
GSK enters into development and marketing collaborations and arising from claims received or other disputes. In respect of product
out-licences of the Group’s compounds or products to other parties. liability claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history
These contracts give rise to fixed and variable consideration from of claims made and settlements to enable management to make a
upfront payments, development milestones, sales-based milestones reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims.
and royalties. In certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial
Income dependent on the achievement of a development milestone technique is used to determine this estimate.
is recognised when it is highly probable that a significant reversal in The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of
the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur, which which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected
is usually when the related event occurs. Sales-based milestone financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the
income is recognised when it is highly probable that the sales proceedings.
threshold will be reached.
In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be
Sales-based royalties on a licence of intellectual property are not included but no provision would be made. Costs associated with
recognised until the relevant product sale occurs. claims made by the Group against third parties are charged to the
If the time between the recognition of revenue and payment from income statement as they are incurred.
the customer is expected to be more than one year and the impact
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
is material, the amount of consideration is discounted using
appropriate discount rates. The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are
calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over
Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the
Expenditure employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of high-
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets are measured at
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
fair value at the balance sheet date.
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a
the achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred. similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the
statement as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-company transfers employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of qualified
are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers actuaries.
are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure. Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business income in the year in which they arise.
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are charged
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected to the income statement as incurred.
has been undertaken.
Employee share plans
Research and development
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income share option and share award schemes.
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and charged
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
and equipment used for research and development is capitalised The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy. shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees
exercise their options or awards. Costs of running the ESOP Trusts
Environmental expenditure
are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer is made between
from past or current operations and from which no current or future other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting periods of the
benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. The Group related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate proceeds
recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably receivable from employees on exercise.
estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total costs
and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’ costs
when it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective
shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of reimbursements are
recorded as assets when virtually certain.148
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Property, plant and equipment Contingent milestone payments are recognised at the point that
the contingent event becomes probable. Any development costs
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
incurred by the Group and associated with acquired licences,
purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and
patents, know-how or marketing rights are written off to the income
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
statement when incurred, unless the criteria for recognition of
qualifying assets in construction.
an internally generated intangible asset are met, usually when a
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value regulatory filing has been made in a major market and approval
of PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over is considered highly probable.
the expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed, and
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of
where appropriate adjusted annually. The normal expected useful
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a value
lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
which is substantial and long term and where the brands either are
contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately from the rest
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised over their
Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where it is considered
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years that the useful economic life is indefinite.
Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal
use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible
On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation
fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant
and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the
business system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a
net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised over seven to
Leases ten years and other computer software over three to five years.
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the Impairment of non-current assets
benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for
leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The assets are
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger cash
included in PP&E or computer software and the capital elements of
generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets might
the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance
be impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite
leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use
consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term, if shorter.
are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for impairment is
The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income
charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
statement. All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs
are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on other
the lease term. non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a change in
estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and only to the
Goodwill
extent that the revised recoverable amounts do not exceed the
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed carrying values that would have existed, net of depreciation or
to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at least amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
annually.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint
Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets, operations
liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
statement. consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net assets
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits
Other intangible assets
or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. The
Group recognises its rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation
expenses of joint operations.
and impairments.
Expected credit losses are recognised in the income statement on
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
financial assets measured at amortised cost and at fair value through
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
other comprehensive income apart from equity investments.
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding
20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are available Inventories
for use. The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation
charge take into account patent lives, where applicable, as well as Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of
the value obtained from periods of non-exclusivity. Asset lives are cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and
reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted, annually. related production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is
generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch inventory
is held as an asset when there is a high probability of regulatory
approval for the product. Before that point a provision is made
against the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the provision
is then reversed at the point when a high probability of regulatory
approval is determined.149
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Financial instruments (applicable from 1 January 2018) Borrowings
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
Financial assets
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
Financial assets are measured at amortised cost, fair value through
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds,
other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) or fair value through profit
net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being
or loss (FVTPL). The measurement basis is determined by reference
recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of
to both the business model for managing the financial asset and
the relevant borrowing.
the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. For
financial assets other than trade receivables a 12-month expected Derivative financial instruments
credit loss (ECL) allowance is recorded on initial recognition. If there Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
is subsequent evidence of a significant increase in the credit risk of market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK are
an asset, the allowance is increased to reflect the full lifetime ECL. foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange
If there is no realistic prospect of recovery, the asset is written off. forward contracts and options. The Group does not hold or issue
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Other investments
Other investments comprise equity investments and investments Derivative financial assets and liabilities, including derivatives
in limited life funds. The Group has elected to designate equity embedded in host contracts which have been separated from the
investments as measured at FVTOCI. They are initially recorded at host contract, are classified as held-for-trading and are measured at
fair value plus transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent fair value. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that
reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses are do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in
recognised in other comprehensive income. the income statement.
On disposal of the equity investment, gains and losses that have Hedge accounting
been deferred in other comprehensive Income are transferred directly Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are classified on
to retained earnings. Investments in limited life funds are measured at inception as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value
FVTPL. They are initially recorded at fair value and then remeasured hedges.
at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
losses are recognised in the income statement. hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent
Dividends on equity investments and distributions from funds are that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are recognised in
recognised in the income statement when the Group’s right to profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in other comprehensive
receive payment is established. income are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged
item affects profit or loss.
Purchases and sales of Other investments are accounted for on
the trade date. Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash
flow hedges.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured in accordance with the business Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
model under which each portfolio of trade receivables is held. The hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
Group has portfolios in each of the three business models under IFRS changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
9: to collect the contractual cash flows (measured at amortised cost), Taxation
to sell the contractual cash flows (measured at FVTPL), and both to
collect and to sell the contractual cash flows (measured at FVTOCI). Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
Trade receivables measured at amortised cost are carried at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
original invoice amount less allowances for expected credit losses. balance sheet date.
Expected credit losses are calculated in accordance with the simplified Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising
approach permitted by IFRS 9, using a provision matrix applying between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
lifetime historical credit loss experience to the trade receivables. The amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are
expected credit loss rate varies depending on whether and the extent recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits
to which settlement of the trade receivables is overdue and it is also will be available against which the temporary differences can be
adjusted as appropriate to reflect current economic conditions and utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising
estimates of future conditions. For the purpose of determining credit on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except
loss rates, customers are classified into groupings that have similar where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be
loss patterns. The key drivers of the loss rate are the nature of the controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
business unit and the location and type of customer. reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is provided using rates
of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
When a trade receivable is determined to have no reasonable
balance sheet date.
expectation of recovery it is written off, firstly against any expected
credit loss allowance available and then to the income statement. Where an uncertain tax position is identified, management will make
a judgement as to what the probable outcome will be. Where it is
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for or written
assessed that an economic outflow is probable to arise a provision
off are credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
is made for the best estimate of the liability. In estimating any such
discounted where the effect is material.
liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into account,
Cash and cash equivalents as appropriate, the probability that the Group would be able to obtain
Cash held in deposit accounts is measured at amortised cost. compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties. These
Investments in money market funds are held at fair value through estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each
profit or loss. dispute and relevant external advice.150
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Discounting Trade receivables
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
Where the time value of money is material, balances are discounted
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is
to current values using appropriate discount rates. The unwinding of
evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
the discounts is recorded in finance income and finance expense.
previous experience and general economic conditions. When a trade
Revenue (applicable up to 31 December 2017) receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly
against any provision available and then to the income statement.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
services are supplied or made available to external customers against
credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the customer,
discounted where the effect is material.
reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions and all relevant
obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings process is Borrowings
regarded as being complete. All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds,
discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future
net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being
rebates and returns. The methodology and assumptions used to
recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of
estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly
the relevant borrowing.
in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions are Derivative financial instruments and hedging
evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
research data and internally generated information. Value added tax market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK are
and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue. foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange
forward contracts and options. The Group does not hold or issue
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as
co-promotion income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading and
activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales. In are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives designated
addition, initial or event-based milestone income (excluding royalty as hedging instruments are classified on inception as cash flow
income) arising on development or marketing collaborations of the hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
Group’s compounds or products with other parties is recognised
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
in turnover.
hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent
Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are recognised in
with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements. profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in other comprehensive
income are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged
Financial instruments (applicable up to 31 December 2017)
item affects profit or loss.
Available-for-sale investments
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash
Liquid investments and other investments are classified as available- flow hedges.
for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting
hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale
changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not
value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the asset qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the
directly and are charged to the income statement. income statement.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and
losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income
are reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity
investments are recognised in the income statement when the
Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity investments
are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be
sold within one year.
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on the
trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale
investments are accounted for on settlement date.151
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates
In preparing the financial statements, management is required to Estimates
make judgements about when or how items should be recognised in If sufficient information is available, in estimating a potential tax
the financial statements and estimates and assumptions that affect liability GSK applies a risk-based approach which takes into account,
the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in as appropriate, the probability that the Group would be able to obtain
the financial statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties. These
those estimates. The following are considered to be the critical estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each
accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty. dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgemental and
could change substantially over time as each dispute progresses and
Turnover
new facts emerge.
Reported Group turnover for 2018 was £30,821 million (2017 – At 31 December 2018, the Group had recognised provisions
£30,186 million). of £1,082 million in respect of uncertain tax positions (2017 –
Estimates £1,175 million). Because of the nature of these uncertain positions,
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances it is not practicable to give meaningful sensitivity estimates.
and product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out in Note 14,
product arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements with ‘Taxation’. GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate
purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale. Accruals Where open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may
are made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts or vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome
allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available market of negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary,
information and historical experience. litigation proceedings.
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
Legal and other disputes
final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product Legal costs for the year were £117 million (2017 – £166 million).
sales mix. At 31 December 2018 provisions for legal and other disputes
amounted to £219 million (2017 – £186 million).
The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and adjusted
regularly in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical Judgement
trends, past experience and projected market conditions. Market Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient
conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the likely
analyses, market research data and internally generated information. outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising from
Revenue is not recognised in full until it is highly probable that a claims against the Group. If insufficient information is available,
significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised no provision is made and disclosure of the claim is given.
will not occur. The amount of turnover recognised in the year from
Estimates
performance obligations satisfied in previous periods is set out in
The estimated provisions take into account the specific
Note 6, ‘Turnover and segment information’.
circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, are
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time
are based to change, which could affect the future results of the as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge. Details of the
Group. status and various uncertainties involved in the significant unresolved
disputes are set out in Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Taxation
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
The tax charge for the year was £754 million (2017 – £1,356 million). established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts
At December 2018, current tax payable was £965 million (2017 – and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
£995 million), non-current corporation tax payable was £272 million accounting requirements. In respect of product liability claims related
(2017 – £411 million) and current tax recoverable was £229 million to certain products there is sufficient history of claims made and
(2017 – £258 million). settlements to enable management to make a reliable estimate of
Judgement the provision required to cover unasserted claims. The Group may
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities. become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not
Management makes a judgement of whether there is sufficient possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect,
information to be able to make a reliable estimate of the outcome if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings.
of the dispute. If insufficient information is available, no provision In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be
is made. provided, but no provision would be made and no contingent liability
can be quantified.
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no
assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal
proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported
in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount.152
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates continued
Contingent consideration and put option liabilities Pensions and other post-employment benefits
The 2018 income statement charge for contingent consideration Judgement
and put option liabilities was £1,851 million (2017 – £2,134 million). Where a surplus on a defined benefit scheme arises, or there is
potential for a surplus to arise from committed future contributions,
At 31 December 2018, the liability for contingent consideration
the rights of the Trustees to prevent the Group obtaining a refund of
amounted to £6,286 million (2017 – £6,172 million). Of this amount,
that surplus in the future are considered in determining whether it is
£5,937 million (2017 – £5,542 million) related to the acquisition
necessary to restrict the amount of the surplus that is recognised.
of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 and
Four UK schemes are in surplus, with a combined surplus of £711
£296 million (2017 – £584 million) related to the acquisition of the
million at 31 December 2018 (2017 – £470 million). GSK has made
Vaccines business from Novartis in 2015.
the judgement that these amounts meet the requirements of
Estimates recoverability.
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration payable
Estimates
for a business combination is recorded at fair value at the date of
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment benefits
acquisition. These fair values are generally based on risk-adjusted
are assessed on the basis of assumptions selected by management.
future cash flows discounted using appropriate post-tax discount
These assumptions include future earnings and pension increases,
rates. The fair values are reviewed on a regular basis, at least
discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on assets and
annually, and any changes are reflected in the income statement.
mortality rates, and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other
See Note 39, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
post-employment benefits’.
In June 2018, GSK acquired Novartis’ shareholding in the Consumer
Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
Healthcare Joint Venture for $13 billion. This resulted in a net charge
except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
in the period of £658 million to remeasure the Consumer Healthcare
bonds where government bond yields are used. A sensitivity analysis
Joint Venture put option to the agreed valuation.
is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if either benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to an
GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed increase in the net pension deficit of approximately £707 million and
within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to acquire its an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately £28 million.
shareholding. The liability for the Pfizer put option, which is derived The selection of different assumptions could affect the future results
from an internal valuation of the ViiV Healthcare business, utilising of the Group.
both discounted forecast future cash flow and multiples-based
methodologies amounted to £1,240 million at 31 December 2018
(2017 – £1,304 million). Sensitivity analysis is given in Note 27,
‘Trade and other payables’.
4. New accounting requirements
The following new and amended accounting standards have been GSK will implement IFRS 16 applying the modified retrospective
issued by the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports. approach. For larger leases, the right of use asset at 1 January 2019
will be calculated based on the original lease inception date and for
IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ was issued in January 2016 and will be
smaller leases the right of use asset will be set equal to the lease
implemented by the Group from 1 January 2019. The Standard will
liability, adjusted for any prepaid or accrued lease payments, onerous
replace IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and will require lease liabilities and ‘right of
lease provisions and business combination fair value adjustments.
use’ assets to be recognised on the balance sheet for almost all
On the transition date of 1 January 2019, the Group expects to
leases. This is expected to result in a significant increase in both
recognise right of use assets of £1.1 billion and a lease liability of
assets and liabilities recognised. The costs of operating leases
£1.3 billion, including existing finance leases. The implementation
currently included within operating costs will be split and the
is expected to reduce net assets and total equity by £0.1 billion.
financing element of the charge will be reported within finance
expense. The overall impact on earnings is not expected to be
material. Finance lease obligations at 31 December 2018 are set
out in Note 31, ‘Net debt’ and the undiscounted commitments
under non-cancellable operating leases are set out in Note 41,
‘Commitments’.153
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
5. Exchange rates
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries,
joint ventures and associates into Sterling and period end rates to translate the net assets of those entities. The currencies which most
influence these translations and the relevant exchange rates were:
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
Average rates: Period end rates:
US$/£ 1.33 1.30 1.36 US$/£ 1.27 1.35 1.24
Euro/£ 1.13 1.15 1.23 Euro/£ 1.11 1.13 1.17
Yen/£ 147 145 149 Yen/£ 140 152 144
6. Turnover and segment information
Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities of the
Corporate Executive Team (CET). GSK reports results under four segments: Pharmaceuticals; Pharmaceuticals R&D; Vaccines and
Consumer Healthcare, and individual members of the CET are responsible for each segment.
The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is recorded,
and the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
Corporate and other unallocated costs included the costs of corporate functions.
Revenue recognised in the year from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods totalled £426 million and included £122 million
reported in turnover arising from changes to prior year estimates of RAR accruals and £299 million of royalty income.
2018 2017 2016
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,269 17,276 16,104
Vaccines 5,894 5,160 4,592
Consumer Healthcare 7,658 7,750 7,193
30,821 30,186 27,889
2018 2017 2016
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 6,928 6,991 6,510
HIV 4,722 4,350 3,556
Immuno-inflammation 472 377 340
Established Pharmaceuticals 5,147 5,558 5,698
17,269 17,276 16,104
2018 2017 2016
Vaccines turnover by category £m £m £m
Meningitis 881 890 662
Influenza 523 488 414
Shingles 784 22 –
Established Vaccines 3,706 3,760 3,516
5,894 5,160 4,592
During 2018, the US operations of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses made sales to three wholesalers of approximately
£2,709 million (2017 – £2,449 million; 2016 – £2,139 million), £2,962 million (2017 – £3,043 million; 2016 – £2,691 million) and
£2,656 million (2017 – £2,356 million; 2016 – £2,129 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.
2018 2017 2016
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category £m £m £m
Wellness 3,940 4,001 3,726
Oral care 2,496 2,466 2,223
Nutrition 643 680 674
Skin health 579 603 570
7,658 7,750 7,193154
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
2018 2017 2016
Segment profit
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 8,420 8,667 7,976
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,676) (2,740) (2,488)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 5,744 5,927 5,488
Vaccines 1,943 1,644 1,429
Consumer Healthcare 1,517 1,373 1,116
Segment profit 9,204 8,944 8,033
Corporate and other unallocated costs (459) (376) (362)
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (3,262) (4,481) (5,073)
Operating profit 5,483 4,087 2,598
Finance income 81 65 72
Finance costs (798) (734) (736)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 3 94 –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 13 5
Profit before taxation 4,800 3,525 1,939
Taxation (754) (1,356) (877)
Profit after taxation for the year 4,046 2,169 1,062
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit. These
include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets; major restructuring costs, which include impairments of tangible assets and
computer software; transaction-related adjustments related to significant acquisitions; proceeds and costs of disposals of associates,
products and businesses, significant legal charges and expenses on the settlement of litigation and government investigations, other
operating income other than royalty income and other items, and the pre-tax impact of the enactment of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
2018 2017 2016
Depreciation and amortisation by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 506 551 440
Pharmaceuticals R&D 123 96 211
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 629 647 651
Vaccines 395 405 315
Consumer Healthcare 146 135 126
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,170 1,187 1,092
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 106 144 94
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and
total depreciation and amortisation 580 591 588
Total depreciation and amortisation 1,856 1,922 1,774155
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
6. Turnover and segment information continued
2018 2017 2016
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 51 38 29
Pharmaceuticals R&D 15 10 88
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 66 48 117
Vaccines 5 13 34
Consumer Healthcare 4 10 46
Segment impairment 75 71 197
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 14 3 24
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 261 995 68
Total impairment 350 1,069 289
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment
Pharmaceuticals (4) (13) (15)
Pharmaceuticals R&D (1) (2) (10)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D (5) (15) (25)
Vaccines – – (19)
Consumer Healthcare – (1) (8)
Segment impairment reversals (5) (16) (52)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals – – (26)
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversals and total impairment reversals (8) (36) (9)
Total impairment reversals (13) (52) (87)
2018 2017
Net assets by segment £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 869 2,017
Pharmaceuticals R&D 502 522
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 1,371 2,539
Vaccines 9,966 9,707
Consumer Healthcare 10,559 2,003
Segment net operating assets 21,896 14,249
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets 1,141 868
Net operating assets 23,037 15,117
Net debt (21,621) (13,178)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 236 183
Derivative financial instruments 129 2
Current and deferred taxation 1,723 1,252
Assets held for sale (excluding cash and cash equivalents) 168 113
Net assets 3,672 3,489
The Pharmaceuticals segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £5,937 million (2017 –
£5,542 million) and the Pfizer put option of £1,240 million (2017 – £1,304 million). The put option liability (2017 – £8,606 million)
related to the Consumer Healthcare segment was extinguished during 2018.156
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Turnover and segment information continued
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2018 2017 2016
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 923 940 1,056
US 11,982 11,263 10,197
Rest of World 17,916 17,983 16,636
External turnover 30,821 30,186 27,889
2018 2017
Non-current assets by location of subsidiary £m £m
UK 6,118 6,824
US 7,540 6,841
Rest of World 20,768 20,901
Non-current assets 34,426 34,566
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments, pension
assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.
7. Other operating income/(expense)
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Fair value remeasurements of equity investments under IFRS 9 16
Disposal of businesses and assets 258 195 283
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations (1,252) (1,012) (2,205)
Remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential dividends 58 13 (577)
Remeasurement of Consumer Healthcare put option liability (658) (1,186) (1,133)
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments (3) 9 (3)
Other (expense)/income (7) 9 23
Impairment of available-for-sale equity investments under IAS 39 (30) (47)
Disposal of available-for-sale equity investments under IAS 39 37 254
(1,588) (1,965) (3,405)
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2018 included a profit of £119 million on the disposal of tapinarof to Dermavant Sciences, a profit of
£33 million on the disposal of Consumer Healthcare tail brands in the US and a gain arising from the increase in value of the shares in
Hindustan Unilever Limited to be received on the disposal of Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare brands, which is expected to complete
by the end of 2019, net of disposal costs.
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations included £1,188 million related to the
acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £56 million payable to Novartis related to the Vaccines acquisition and
fair value movements on derivatives hedging foreign exchange exposure.157
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
8. Operating profit
2018 2017 2016
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 9,440 9,122 8,212
Advertising 1,376 1,351 1,265
Distribution costs 389 405 395
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 954 988 978
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 203 327 180
Amortisation of intangible assets 902 934 796
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 134 690 22
Net foreign exchange losses 81 215 53
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 8,713 8,526 8,093
Write-down of inventories 695 701 533
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (302) (352) (145)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 188 110 91
Contingent rents 12 4 4
Sub-lease payments 5 5 4
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 29.8 29.2 29.7
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
Net foreign exchange losses include a net loss of £nil (2017 – £109 million; 2016 – £nil) of exchange arising on the reclassification
of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries.
Included within operating profit are major restructuring charges of £809 million (2017 – £1,056 million; 2016 – £970 million), see Note 10,
‘Major restructuring costs’.
2018 2017 2016
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 6.7 7.0 5.8
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 12.9 16.2 16.4
Attestation under s.404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 6.6 4.5 4.4
Audit and audit-related services 26.2 27.7 26.6
Taxation compliance 0.1 0.2 0.2
Taxation advice – 0.1 1.8
Other assurance services 3.0 1.0 0.3
All other services 0.5 0.2 0.8
29.8 29.2 29.7
The other assurance services provided by the auditor relate to agreed upon procedures and other assurance services outside of statutory
audit requirements. All other services provided by the auditor primarily related to advisory services for the year ended 31 December 2018.
In addition to the above, fees paid in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Audit 0.3 0.3 0.4
Other services – 0.1 –158
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
9. Employee costs
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 7,203 7,116 6,391
Social security costs 795 802 733
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 586 616 541
Cost of share-based incentive plans 393 347 338
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 463 241 209
9,440 9,122 8,212
The increase in wages and salaries included the impact of movements in exchange rates. The Group provides benefits to employees,
commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and
personal life assurance.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 304 276 271
Performance Share Plan 49 47 39
Share option plans 4 4 4
Cash settled and other plans 36 20 24
393 347 338
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2018 2017 2016
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 37,296 38,632 38,611
Selling, general and administration 47,887 49,141 49,961
Research and development 11,668 11,576 11,255
96,851 99,349 99,827
The average monthly number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of
each financial year are given in the financial record on page 231. The monthly average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc
in 2018 was nil (2017 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 29 26 25
Social security costs 3 4 4
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 2
Cost of share-based incentive plans 20 22 15
55 55 46
Further information on the remuneration of the Directors is given in the Remuneration report on pages 96 to 124.
10. Major restructuring costs
Within the Pharmaceuticals sector, the highly regulated manufacturing operations and supply chains and long lifecycle of the business mean
that restructuring programmes, particularly those that involve the rationalisation or closure of manufacturing or R&D sites, are likely to take
several years to complete.
Major restructuring costs are those related to specific Board approved Major restructuring programmes, including integration costs following
material acquisitions, which are structural and are of a significant scale where the costs of individual or related projects exceed £25 million.
The existing Combined restructuring and integration programme incorporates the previous Major Change programme, the Pharmaceuticals
restructuring programme and the restructuring and integration programme following the Novartis transaction in 2015. In July 2018, the Board
approved a new Major restructuring programme, which is designed to significantly improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the Group’s
cost base with savings delivered primarily through supply chain optimisation and reductions in administrative costs.159
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
10. Major restructuring costs continued
The total restructuring costs of £809 million in 2018 were incurred in a number of areas, including the following:
– Restructuring of the commercial operating model, including staff reductions in the US, Europe and International Pharmaceutical commercial
operations and the US Respiratory field sales force
– Manufacturing site restructuring, including the GSK steriles manufacturing facility at Ulverston, United Kingdom
– Vaccines transformation and remediation
– Restructuring of the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare supply chains leading to simplification of the operating model and
improved resource allocation
– Transformation of central functions, including GSK technology platforms and interfaces, to deliver greater digital synergies, simplification
of applications and staff reductions.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes was as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for Major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) 450 259 163
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) (99) (43) (140)
Impairment losses recognised 130 278 158
Other non-cash charges 72 247 108
Other cash costs 256 315 681
809 1,056 970
Asset impairments and other non-cash charges principally comprise fixed asset write-downs across support function, manufacturing and
research facilities and accelerated depreciation where asset lives in R&D and manufacturing have been shortened as a result of the major
restructuring programmes. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and include the termination of leases, site closure costs
and consultancy and project management fees.
The analysis of Major restructuring charges by income statement line was as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 443 545 297
Selling, general and administration 315 248 514
Research and development 49 263 159
Other operating income/(expense) 2 – –
809 1,056 970
11. Finance income
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Year to 31 December 2018 under IFRS 9
Finance income arising from:
Financial assets measured at amortised cost 73
Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss 1
Net gains arising from hedge ineffectiveness on net investment hedges 7
Years to 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 under IAS 39
Interest income arising from:
Cash and cash equivalents 60 67
Available-for-sale investments 2 1
Loans and receivables 1 2
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 2 2
81 65 72
Interest income arising from financial assets measured at amortised cost in 2018 includes interest income arising from assets which would
have been classified as available-for-sale investments and loans and receivables in prior years under IAS 39. This also includes interest
income arising from certain cash and cash equivalents. Interest income arising from financial assets measured at fair value through profit or
loss in 2018 includes interest income arising from other cash and cash equivalents.
Net gains arising from hedge ineffectiveness on net investment hedges were recorded in ‘Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value
through profit or loss’ in 2017 and 2016. All derivatives accounted for at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective
hedging instruments (see Note 42, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments.160
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
12. Finance expense
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Finance expense arising on:
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (677) (698) (671)
Derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (38) (22) (30)
Net losses arising from:
Financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss 3 (4) (3)
Reclassification of hedges from other comprehensive income (2) – (1)
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (15) (16) (16)
Other finance expense (69) 6 (15)
(798) (734) (736)
All derivatives accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 42,
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’), are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments. Interest expense arising on
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense. Other finance expense in 2018 includes a £39 million charge
(2017 – £24 million credit) for interest relating to historical income tax settlements.
13. Associates and joint ventures
The Group’s share of after tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Share of after tax profits of associates 28 16 9
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of joint ventures 3 (3) (4)
31 13 5
At 31 December 2018, the Group held one significant associate, Innoviva, Inc.
Summarised income statement information in respect of Innoviva is set out below for the periods in which the Group accounted for its
investment in Innoviva as an associate. The Group’s 2018 share of after tax profits of associates and other comprehensive income includes
a profit of £33 million and other comprehensive income of £nil in respect of Innoviva.
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Turnover 183 165 98
Profit after taxation 134 103 44
Other comprehensive income – – –
Total comprehensive income 134 103 44
The results of Innoviva included in the summarised income statement information above represent the estimated earnings of Innoviva in the
relevant periods, based on publicly available information. Innoviva’s turnover is from royalty income from GSK in relation to Relvar/Breo Ellipta,
Anoro Ellipta and Trelegy Ellipta sales.
Aggregated financial information in respect of GSK’s share of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Share of turnover 242 252 133
Share of after tax (losses)/profits (2) (5) (1)
Share of other comprehensive income – – –
Share of total comprehensive (expense)/income (2) (5) (1)
The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £43 million in 2018 (2017 – £41 million; 2016 – £43 million).161
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
14. Taxation
The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax expense.
2018 2017 2016
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK current year charge 234 199 241
Rest of World current year charge 1,426 1,928 1,326
Credit in respect of prior periods (492) (508) (149)
Total current taxation 1,168 1,619 1,418
Total deferred taxation (414) (263) (541)
Total tax 754 1,356 877
In 2018, GSK made payments of £113 million in UK corporation tax to HMRC. These amounts are for UK corporation tax only, and do not
include the various other business taxes borne in the UK by GSK each year.
The deferred tax credit in 2018 reflected the origination of current year tax losses, where offset against taxable profits in future periods is
probable, as well as an uplift in the tax carrying value of certain Consumer Healthcare brands as a result of the acquisition of Novartis’ interest
in the former Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
The deferred tax credit in 2017 reflected the revaluation of existing deferred tax liabilities to reflect a lower Swiss tax rate applicable following
Swiss tax reform, and an increase in deferred tax assets related to intra-Group profit on inventory. The impact of these items was partly offset
by the revaluation of existing deferred tax assets to reflect the lower US tax rate applicable following the enactment of US tax reform. In 2016,
the net deferred tax credit was impacted to a greater extent by remeasurement of the contingent consideration in relation to the former
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare Joint Venture.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax charge for
the year.
2018 2018 2017 2017 2016 2016
Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits £m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 4,800 3,525 1,939
UK statutory rate of taxation 912 19.0 679 19.25 388 20.0
Differences in overseas taxation rates 675 14.1 635 18.0 593 30.6
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (522) (10.9) (458) (13.0) (321) (16.5)
R&D credits (73) (1.5) (75) (2.1) (93) (4.8)
FV remeasurement of non-taxable put options 221 4.6 227 6.4 340 17.5
Tax losses where no benefit is recognised 24 0.5 28 0.8 (15) (0.8)
Permanent differences on disposals and acquisitions (7) (0.1) 4 0.1 (21) (1.1)
Other permanent differences 85 1.7 196 5.6 122 6.3
Re-assessments of prior year estimates (436) (9.1) (475) (13.5) (116) (6.0)
US and Swiss Tax Reform (125) (2.6) 595 16.9
Tax charge/tax rate 754 15.7 1,356 38.5 877 45.2
GSK has a substantial business presence in many countries around the world. The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates arose from
profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2018 were the US, Belgium,
India and Japan. The adverse impact was partly offset by the increased benefit of intellectual property incentives such as the UK Patent box
and Belgian Patent income deduction regimes. Such regimes provide a reduced rate of corporate income tax on profits earned from qualifying
patents.
The Group’s 2018 tax rate of 15.7% has been influenced by the reassessment of open issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions,
together with the £125 million credit related to a reduced estimate of the 2017 impact of US Tax Reform following additional guidance being
released by the US tax authorities and the transaction related charges arising on the Group’s put option liabilities to ViiV Healthcare and the
former Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with Novartis.
Future tax charges, and therefore the Group’s effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructuring, the
location of research and development activity, tax regime reforms and resolution of open matters as tax affairs are brought up to date around
the world.162
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
2018 2017 2016
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments – – 7
Defined benefit plans (2) 26 32
(2) 26 39
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments 2 (4) –
Defined benefit plans (144) (247) 94
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (2) – 2
Fair value movements on equity investments 10 29 51
(134) (222) 147
Total (charge)/credit to equity and statement of comprehensive income (136) (196) 186
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share-based payments.
Issues relating to taxation
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a limited
number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. In line with current OECD guidelines GSK
bases its transfer pricing policy on the ‘arm’s length’ principle. However, different tax authorities may seek to attribute further profit to activities
being undertaken in their jurisdiction potentially resulting in double taxation. The Group also has open items in several jurisdictions concerning
such matters as the deductibility of particular expenses and the tax treatment of certain business transactions. GSK applies a risk-based
approach to determine the transactions most likely to be subject to challenge and the probability that the Group would be able to obtain
compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties.
The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge therefore necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items
whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a
formal legal process. At 31 December 2018 the Group had recognised provisions of £1,082 million in respect of such uncertain tax positions
(2017 – £1,175 million). The decrease in recognised provisions during 2018 was driven by the reassessment of estimates and the utilisation
of provisions for uncertain tax positions following the settlement of a number of open issues with tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Whilst
the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements with the relevant
tax authorities, or litigation where appropriate, the Group continues to believe that it has made appropriate provision for periods which are
open and not yet agreed by the tax authorities. GSK does not currently anticipate any material changes to the amounts provided for transfer
pricing or tax contingencies during the next 12 months.
A provision for deferred tax liabilities of £185 million as at 31 December 2018 (2017 – £209 million) has been made in respect of withholding
taxation that would be payable on the remittance of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. Whilst the aggregate amount of unremitted profits
at the balance sheet date was approximately £18 billion (2017 – £17 billion), the majority of these unremitted profits would not be subject to
tax (including withholding tax) on repatriation, as UK legislation relating to company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most
overseas profits, subject to certain exceptions. Deferred tax is not provided on temporary differences of £231 million (2017 – £nil) arising
on unremitted profits as management has the ability to control any future reversal and does not consider such a reversal to be probable.163
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
14. Taxation continued
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated other post option net
capital Intangible Contingent Intra-Group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances assets consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2017 (377) (2,324) 1,138 1,054 1,262 227 110 1,350 2,440
Exchange adjustments (7) 75 – (58) (48) (5) (4) (18) (65)
Credit/(charge) to income statement 62 330 (52) 256 3 59 (1) (88) 569
Credit/(charge) to income statement
associated with US tax reform 5 116 (218) (235) (210) (20) (27) (216) (805)
Credit to income statement
associated with Swiss tax reform – 483 – – – – – – 483
(Charge)/credit to statement of
comprehensive income and equity – – – – (247) – (4) 29 (222)
At 1 January 2018 (317) (1,320) 868 1,017 760 261 74 1,057 2,400
Exchange adjustments (6) (4) – 43 38 2 2 9 84
Credit/(charge) to income statement (12) 365 (34) (31) 33 183 (7) (101) 396
Credit/(charge) to statement of
comprehensive income and equity – – – – (144) – 2 8 (134)
Reclassification on disposal – – – – 7 1 – (23) (15)
At 31 December 2018 (335) (959) 834 1,029 694 447 71 950 2,731
The net credit to the income statement of £396 million included an £18 million charge related to R&D incentives recognised within Operating
profit (and not the taxation charge) in the income statement.
Deferred tax liabilities provided in relation to intangible assets predominately relate to temporary differences arising on assets and liabilities
acquired as part of historic business combinations.
The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets on future obligations in respect of contingent consideration amounts payable to
minority shareholders. These payments are tax deductible at the point in time at which payment is made.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on intra-Group profits arising on inter-company inventory which are eliminated within the consolidated
accounts. As intra-Group profits are not eliminated from the individual entities’ tax returns a temporary difference arises that will reverse at the
point in time inventory is sold externally.
The deferred tax asset recognised on tax losses of £447 million (2017 – £261 million) related to trading losses. Other net temporary
differences included accrued expenses for which a tax deduction is only available on a paid basis, such as for pensions.
Deferred tax asset and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet as follows:
2018 2017
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 3,887 3,796
Deferred tax liabilities (1,156) (1,396)
2,731 2,400
Deferred tax assets are recognised on US foreign tax credits only where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available. The net
amount of foreign tax credits on which deferred tax has not been provided was £114 million at 31 December 2018 (2017 – £151 million).
2018 2017
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Tax losses asset Tax losses asset
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 678 148 802 187
More than 10 years 957 93 872 99
Available indefinitely 89 15 86 14
At 31 December 1,724 256 1,760 300
Capital losses expiring:
Available indefinitely 2,042 399 1,924 372
At 31 December 2,042 399 1,924 372
Deferred tax assets are only recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.164
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
15. Earnings per share
2018 2017 2016
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 73.7 31.4 18.8
Diluted earnings per share 72.9 31.0 18.6
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of shares
in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived their rights to
dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation to
assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where its
exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions attaching to the scheme
have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2018 2017 2016
Weighted average number of shares in issue
millions millions millions
Basic 4,914 4,886 4,860
Dilution for share options and awards 57 55 49
Diluted 4,971 4,941 4,909
16. Dividends
2018 2017 2016
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m
First interim 12 July 2018 19 934 13 July 2017 19 928 14 July 2016 19 923
Second interim 11 October 2018 19 934 12 October 2017 19 929 13 October 2016 19 925
Third interim 10 January 2019 19 935 11 January 2018 19 929 12 January 2017 19 925
Fourth interim 11 April 2019 23 1,132 12 April 2018 23 1,130 13 April 2017 23 1,124
Total 80 3,935 80 3,916 80 3,897
Under IFRS, interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a
dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2018 financial statements recognise those
dividends paid in 2018, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2017, and the first and second interim dividends for 2018.
The amounts recognised in each year were as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 3,927 3,906 4,850165
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
17. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2017 7,761 11,235 3,168 22,164
Exchange adjustments (127) (62) (45) (234)
Other additions 69 296 1,219 1,584
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 30 30
Disposals and write-offs (376) (685) (31) (1,092)
Reclassifications 602 1,186 (1,826) (38)
Transfer to assets held for sale (462) (219) (14) (695)
Cost at 31 December 2017 7,467 11,751 2,501 21,719
Exchange adjustments 150 187 25 362
Other additions 33 190 1,135 1,358
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 21 21
Disposals and write-offs (90) (440) (53) (583)
Reclassifications 403 1,016 (1,486) (67)
Transfer to assets held for sale (152) (167) (3) (322)
Cost at 31 December 2018 7,811 12,537 2,140 22,488
Depreciation at 1 January 2017 (3,259) (7,410) – (10,669)
Exchange adjustments 50 110 – 160
Charge for the year (299) (689) – (988)
Disposals and write-offs 158 539 – 697
Transfer to assets held for sale 314 190 – 504
Depreciation at 31 December 2017 (3,036) (7,260) – (10,296)
Exchange adjustments (61) (111) – (172)
Charge for the year (268) (686) – (954)
Disposals and write-offs 77 401 – 478
Transfer to assets held for sale 55 122 – 177
Depreciation at 31 December 2018 (3,233) (7,534) – (10,767)
Impairment at 1 January 2017 (279) (344) (64) (687)
Exchange adjustments 8 2 (2) 8
Disposals and write-offs 210 104 28 342
Impairment losses (194) (138) (17) (349)
Reversal of impairments 7 9 1 17
Transfer to assets held for sale 87 8 11 106
Impairment at 31 December 2017 (161) (359) (43) (563)
Exchange adjustments (8) (4) (1) (13)
Disposals and write-offs 10 59 22 91
Impairment losses (16) (143) (46) (205)
Reversal of impairments 1 6 – 7
Transfer to assets held for sale – 20 – 20
Impairment at 31 December 2018 (174) (421) (68) (663)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2017 (3,197) (7,619) (43) (10,859)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2018 (3,407) (7,955) (68) (11,430)
Net book value at 1 January 2017 4,223 3,481 3,104 10,808
Net book value at 31 December 2017 4,270 4,132 2,458 10,860
Net book value at 31 December 2018 4,404 4,582 2,072 11,058
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3% (2017 – 4%). Disposals and write-offs in the year
included a number of assets with nil net book value that are no longer in use in the business.166
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property, plant and equipment continued
The net book value at 31 December 2018 of the Group’s land and buildings included £24 million (2017 – £27 million) held under finance
leases. In addition, the net book value of plant, equipment and vehicles held under finance lease at 31 December 2018 was £59 million
(2017 – £55 million).
The impairment losses principally arose from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs
of disposal or value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on
observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations
determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying
a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for specific segment,
country and currency risk. For value in use calculations, where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected
to give a materially different result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC
is equivalent to a pre-tax discount rate of approximately 9%. The net impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales £142 million
(2017 – £198 million), R&D £9 million (2017 – £93 million) and SG&A £54 million (2017 – £36 million), and included £138 million
(2017 – £278 million) arising from the major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arose from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments were deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
The carrying value at 31 December 2018 of assets for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year was £95 million
(2017 – £33 million).
During 2018, £67 million (2017 – £38 million) of computer software was reclassified from assets in construction to intangible assets
on becoming ready for use.
18. Goodwill
2018 2017
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 5,734 5,965
Exchange adjustments 199 (228)
Transfer to assets held for sale (144) (3)
Cost at 31 December 5,789 5,734
Net book value at 1 January 5,734 5,965
Net book value at 31 December 5,789 5,734
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s segments as follows:
2018 2017
£m £m
Pharmaceuticals 3,273 3,172
Vaccines 1,342 1,302
Consumer Healthcare 1,174 1,260
Net book value at 31 December 5,789 5,734167
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
18. Goodwill continued
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less costs of
disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected risk-adjusted post-tax
cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7%, as most cash generating units have integrated operations across large parts of
the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific segment, country and currency risks. The valuation methodology uses
significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value
hierarchy.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs of disposal
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each region.
Period of specific projected cash flows Five years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
Pharmaceuticals 1% p.a. 7.5%
Vaccines 1% p.a. 7.5%
Consumer Healthcare 2% p.a. 6%
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets, reflect the impact of future generic
competition and take account of new product launches.
In each case the valuations indicated sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in
an impairment of the related goodwill. Goodwill is monitored at the segmental level.
The Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite lives with
a carrying value of £236 million (2017 – £228 million). The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also comprises a collection of smaller
cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £8.5 billion (2017 – £8.5 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 19, ‘Other intangible assets’.168
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
19. Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2017 2,156 15,143 427 9,375 27,101
Exchange adjustments (37) (215) (4) (272) (528)
Capitalised development costs – 251 – – 251
Capitalised borrowing costs 2 3 – – 5
Other additions 233 221 – – 454
Disposals and asset write-offs (217) (38) – – (255)
Transfer to assets held for sale (1) (90) – (44) (135)
Reclassifications 38 – 66 (66) 38
Cost at 31 December 2017 2,174 15,275 489 8,993 26,931
Exchange adjustments 32 235 29 63 359
Capitalised development costs – 203 – – 203
Capitalised borrowing costs 1 – – – 1
Other additions 173 154 – – 327
Disposals and asset write-offs (80) (129) – – (209)
Transfer to assets held for sale (2) (81) (9) – (92)
Reclassifications 67 – – – 67
Cost at 31 December 2018 2,365 15,657 509 9,056 27,587
Amortisation at 1 January 2017 (1,184) (4,983) (224) – (6,391)
Exchange adjustments 25 141 – – 166
Charge for the year (163) (761) (10) – (934)
Disposals and asset write-offs 210 25 – – 235
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 25 – – 26
Amortisation at 31 December 2017 (1,111) (5,553) (234) – (6,898)
Exchange adjustments (24) (104) (3) – (131)
Charge for the year (240) (645) (17) – (902)
Disposals and asset write-offs 67 124 – – 191
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 18 1 – 20
Amortisation at 31 December 2018 (1,307) (6,160) (253) – (7,720)
Impairment at 1 January 2017 (9) (1,652) (143) (130) (1,934)
Exchange adjustments – 110 – 3 113
Impairment losses (2) (546) – (132) (680)
Disposals and asset write-offs 2 5 – – 7
Transfer to assets held for sale – 19 – 4 23
Impairment at 31 December 2017 (9) (2,064) (143) (255) (2,471)
Exchange adjustments – (69) (20) – (89)
Impairment losses (17) (51) – (69) (137)
Reversal of impairments – 3 – – 3
Disposals and asset write-offs 14 4 – – 18
Transfer to assets held for sale – 11 – – 11
Impairment at 31 December 2018 (12) (2,166) (163) (324) (2,665)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2017 (1,120) (7,617) (377) (255) (9,369)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2018 (1,319) (8,326) (416) (324) (10,385)
Net book value at 1 January 2017 963 8,508 60 9,245 18,776
Net book value at 31 December 2017 1,054 7,658 112 8,738 17,562
Net book value at 31 December 2018 1,046 7,331 93 8,732 17,202
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3% (2017 – 4%).
The net book value of computer software included £578 million (2017 – £669 million) of internally generated costs.
The carrying value at 31 December 2018 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year, following
those impairments or reversals, was £73 million (2017 – £300 million).
The patent expiry dates of the Group’s most significant assets, where relevant, are set out on pages 238 and 239.169
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
19. Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2018 2017 2018 2017
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 593 578 69 400
Selling, general and administration 178 116 19 2
Research and development 131 240 46 278
902 934 134 680
Licences, patents, etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are either
marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of additions through business combinations in
the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2018 2017
£m £m
Meningitis portfolio 2,363 2,450
Dolutegravir 1,319 1,389
Benlysta 905 965
Fluarix/FluLaval 274 321
HIV assets acquired from BMS 277 277
Selzentry 136 162
Okairos technology platform 205 202
Others 1,852 1,892
7,331 7,658
The Meningitis portfolio includes Menveo, Bexsero, Men ABCWY and Menjugate.
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop, Inc.
in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001, CNS, Inc. in 2006 and the Novartis Consumer Healthcare business in 2015, together with a
number of pharmaceutical brands from the acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in 2009. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2018 2017
£m £m
Voltaren 2,735 2,716
Otrivin 1,385 1,380
Fenistil 651 648
Theraflu 449 441
Panadol 388 386
Sensodyne 265 265
Lamisil 293 289
Breathe Right 262 236
Stiefel trade name 236 228
Excedrin 193 185
Physiogel 150 166
Polident 112 112
Others 1,613 1,686
8,732 8,738
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support.
The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and market
shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively low. The
Group is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors which could limit their useful lives.
Accordingly, they are not amortised.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment and other amortised intangible assets are tested when indicators of impairment arise. This
testing applies a fair value less costs of disposal methodology, generally using post-tax cash flow forecasts with a terminal value calculation
and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for specific segment, country and currency risks.
This valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is
classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product contribution,
the future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions and exchange rates. These
assumptions are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes
in market conditions and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between nil% and 3% are management’s
estimates of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such
that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these intangible assets.170
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2018 Joint 2017
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 13 170 183 19 244 263
Exchange adjustments 1 11 12 (2) (10) (12)
Additions 1 9 10 – 15 15
Disposals – – – – (92) (92)
Distributions received – (40) (40) (1) (1) (2)
Other movements 1 39 40 – (2) (2)
Profit/(loss) after tax recognised in the consolidated income statement 3 28 31 (3) 16 13
At 31 December 19 217 236 13 170 183
The Group held one significant associate at 31 December 2018, Innoviva, Inc. At 31 December 2018, the Group owned 32 million shares
or 31.7% of Innoviva, which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ. Innoviva partnered with GSK in the development of the long
acting beta agonist vilanterol and currently receives royalty income from sales of products that contain this component, namely Relvar/Breo
Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta. It also has a 15% economic interest in royalties paid by GSK on sales of Trelegy Ellipta. The remaining 85% of the
economic interest in these royalties is held by Theravance Biopharma Inc., in which the Group holds 17.4% of the common stock. The
investment in Innoviva had a market value of £440 million at 31 December 2018 (2017 – £336 million).
Summarised balance sheet information, based on published information, in respect of Innoviva is set out below:
At 31 December At 31 December
2018 2017
£m £m
Non-current assets 275 124
Current assets 157 148
Current liabilities (4) (26)
Non-current liabilities (302) (426)
Net assets/(liabilities) 126 (180)
2018 2017
£m £m
Interest in associated undertaking 40 (57)
Goodwill 91 86
Fair value and other adjustments 58 118
Carrying value at 31 December 189 147
21. Other investments
Investments
designated as Investments
measured at measured at
FVTOCI FVTPL 2018 2017
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 869 49 918 985
Exchange adjustments 48 4 52 (64)
Additions 363 9 372 80
Net fair value movements through Other comprehensive income 118 – 118 11
Net fair value movements through profit or loss – 16 16 –
Impairment losses – – – (30)
Disposals and settlements (89) (6) (95) (64)
Transfers to Assets held for sale (59) – (59) –
At 31 December 1,250 72 1,322 918
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are recorded at fair value at each balance sheet date. For investments
traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid price. For other investments, the
fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information, including the current market value of similar instruments
and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. Other investments include listed investments of £656 million (2017 – £535 million).171
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
21. Other investments continued
GSK has elected to designate the majority of its equity investments as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI).
The most significant of these investments held at 31 December 2018 were in Theravance Biopharma, Inc. in which the Group holds 17.4%
of the common stock, Orchard in which the group holds 14.5% and 23andMe in which the Group holds 14.5%. These investments had a
fair value at 31 December 2018 of £194 million (2017 – £199 million), £154 million and £229 million respectively. No other investment is
individually material. The other investments include equity stakes in companies with which GSK has research collaborations and in companies
which provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest. Information on dividends received from investments measured at
FVTOCI is provided in Note 7 ‘Other operating income/(expense)’.
On disposal of equity investments measured at FVTOCI, the accumulated fair value movements are reclassified from the fair value reserve to
retained earnings. Investments with a fair value of £148 million were disposed of during the year. The cumulative gain on these investments
after tax was £56 million.
Certain other investments, such as investments in funds with limited lives, are measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). The
cumulative gain/loss on investments measured at FVTPL which were disposed of during the year was £nil. The fair value of these investments
on derecognition was £nil.
In 2017, prior to the Group’s implementation of IFRS 9, the cumulative fair value movements, based on average cost for shares acquired at
different times, for all other investments disposed of during the period were reclassified from the fair value reserve to the income statement.
The impairment losses recorded above for the prior year were recognised in the income statement within Other operating income, together
with amounts reclassified from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These impairments resulted from prolonged or
significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost.
The carrying value at 31 December 2017 of Other investments which had been impaired was as follows:
2017
£m
Original cost 475
Cumulative impairments recognised in the income statement (283)
Subsequent fair value increases 210
Carrying value at 31 December 2017 402
Cumulative impairments on those Other investments designated as measured at FVTOCI under IFRS 9 were transferred from retained
earnings to the fair value reserve on 1 January 2018 on adoption of IFRS 9.
22. Other non-current assets
2018 2017
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 675 648
Pension schemes in surplus 760 538
Other receivables 141 227
1,576 1,413
Amounts receivable under insurance contacts are held at fair value through profit or loss.
In regards to the other receivables of £141 million, £89 million is classified as financial assets of which £41 million is classified as fair value
through profit or loss. Of the remaining balance of £48 million, the expected credit loss allowance was immaterial at 31 December 2018.
23. Inventories
2018 2017
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,122 1,193
Work in progress 2,286 2,381
Finished goods 2,068 1,983
5,476 5,557172
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
24. Trade and other receivables
2018 2017
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of loss allowance 5,176 4,672
Accrued income 9 21
Other prepayments 330 308
Interest receivable 4 10
Employee loans and advances 14 19
Other receivables 890 970
6,423 6,000
Trade receivables included £15 million (2017 – £11 million) due from associates and joint ventures. Other receivables included £nil
(2017 – £7 million) due from associates and joint ventures.
2018 2017
Loss allowance
£m £m
At 1 January 140 207
Implementation of IFRS 9 15 –
At 1 January, as adjusted 155 –
Exchange adjustments – (4)
Charge for the year 7 31
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (30) (79)
Utilised (4) (15)
At 31 December 128 140
Of the total trade receivables balance, £71 million was considered credit impaired, against which a £7 million expected credit loss allowance
has been applied. No amount was purchased or originated credit impaired.
Of the other receivables of £890 million, £376 million was classified as financial assets of which £41 million was classified as at fair value
through profit and loss. On the remaining balance of £335 million, an expected credit loss allowance of £5 million was recognised at
31 December 2018 with no charge reported in profit or loss during the year.
For more discussion on credit risk practices, please refer to Note 42.
25. Cash and cash equivalents
2018 2017
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 569 826
Short-term deposits 3,305 3,007
3,874 3,833
In addition, £485 million of cash and cash equivalents has been reported in Assets held for sale, see Note 26, ‘Assets held for sale’.
Cash and cash equivalents included £0.2 billion (2017 – £0.8 billion) not available for general use due to restrictions applying in the
subsidiaries where it is held. Restrictions include exchange controls and taxes on repatriation.173
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
26. Assets held for sale
2018 2017
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 109 57
Goodwill 144 –
Other intangibles 1 49
Inventory 50 7
Cash and cash equivalents 485 –
Other (136) –
653 113
Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be
recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair
value less costs to sell.
Assets held for sale primarily reflect the disposal group arising from GSK’s agreement to divest Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare
nutritional brands to Unilever plc announced in December 2018, and which is expected to complete by the end of 2019. See Note 38,
‘Acquisitions and disposals’.
Included within assets held for sale are assets which were written down to fair value less costs to sell of £51 million (2017 – £63 million).
The valuation methodology used significant inputs which were not based on observable market data and therefore this valuation is classified
as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
27. Trade and other payables
2018 2017
£m £m
Trade payables 3,645 3,528
Wages and salaries 1,355 1,228
Social security 139 166
Consumer Healthcare put option – 8,606
ViiV Healthcare put option 1,240 1,304
Other payables 401 363
Deferred income 216 240
Customer return and rebate accruals 5,064 3,463
Other accruals 1,977 2,072
14,037 20,970
Trade and other payables included £64 million (2017 – £53 million) due to associates and joint ventures. The Group provides limited supplier
financing arrangements to certain customers. The amounts involved at 31 December 2018 were not material.
Revenue recognised in the year that was included in deferred income at 1 January 2018 was £66 million. Of the remaining balance, £64 million
related to proceeds from a site disposal in India, which was expected to complete in 2018, but is now expected to complete in 2019.
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable to customers, and included £4,356 million (2017 – £2,837 million) in respect of US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, as
more fully described in the Group financial review on page 63. Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based
on claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are estimated, they may not fully reflect the final outcome
and are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is
reviewed and adjusted quarterly in light of historical experience of actual amounts paid and any changes in arrangements. Future events could
cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future results of the Group.
Pfizer’s put option over its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare is currently exercisable. The amount of the liability recognised is derived from
several valuation methodologies, including reference to market multiples of comparable companies. The table below shows on an indicative
basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity of the Pfizer put option to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
2018
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 140
10% decrease in sales forecasts (140)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 75
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (64)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 44
10 cent depreciation of Euro (37)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 41.174
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2018 2017 2016
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 246 198 205
US pension schemes 100 113 106
Other overseas pension schemes 190 218 140
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 50 87 90
586 616 541
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 369 335 304
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 43 55 43
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 50 87 90
Defined benefit schemes 462 477 437
Defined contribution pension schemes 124 139 104
586 616 541
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 160 162 135
Selling, general and administration 228 238 221
Research and development 74 77 81
462 477 437
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees. These
arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by state
schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions paid
in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable remuneration
and length of service.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain countries
pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of
the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from AA
rated corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond yields are used.
Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected inflation rate and pension increases are long-term
predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by
adjusting the SAPS S2 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements
in life expectancy in line with the CMI 2017 projections with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per year for both males and females.
In the US, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2014 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience. These rates are projected
using MP-2017 to allow for future improvements in life expectancy.175
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2038 for an individual then at the age of
60 is as follows:
UK US
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.5 29.1 27.0 28.7
Projected for 2038 29.0 30.6 28.7 30.3
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a general
fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments
are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The physical asset allocation strategy for three of the four
UK plans remains unchanged, with 55% in return-seeking assets and 45% in liability-matching assets. The remaining plan has materially
de-risked given its relative higher maturity as well as improved funding position. The asset allocation of the US plans is currently set at 55%
return-seeking assets and 45% liability-matching assets.
The pension plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the plans’ assets might decline, the investment
returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return-seeking assets to generate future returns and liability-matching assets to better match future pension
obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the plans, with investments across a broad range of assets.
The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term inflation, equities, property,
currency and bank counterparty risk.
The plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19 basis, these cash flows are sensitive to
changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-term
inflation corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the liabilities.
The interest rate risk and credit rate risk in the US are partially hedged. The targets are based on an accounting measure of the plan liabilities.
For the UK plans, there is an interest rate and inflation hedging strategy in place. The targets are based on an economic measure of the plan
liabilities. Furthermore, the plans also currently hedge a portion of their equity exposure with a staggered maturity profile.
In the UK, the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to
join a defined contribution scheme. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of
which is in the US.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK US Rest of World
2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 2016
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 2.70 2.80 2.70
Discount rate 2.90 2.50 2.70 4.20 3.60 3.90 1.80 1.60 1.60
Expected pension increases 3.20 3.20 3.20 n/a n/a n/a 2.10 2.20 2.10
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 3.20 2.90 3.20 0.40 0.30 0.30
Inflation rate 3.20 3.20 3.20 2.25 2.25 2.25 1.50 1.70 1.50
Sensitivity analysis detailing the effect of changes in assumptions is provided on page 182. The analysis provided reflects the assumption
changes which have the most material impact on the results of the Group.176
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December 2018
in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2018 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 75 72 134 281 29
Past service cost/(credit) 93 1 – 94 (27)
Net interest (income)/cost (3) 20 19 36 49
Gains from settlements – – (14) (14) (1)
Expenses 8 7 – 15 –
173 100 139 412 50
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 495 (108) 196 583 145
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2017 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 79 70 131 280 30
Past service cost/(credit) 37 – – 37 (2)
Net interest cost 7 31 16 54 59
Expenses 7 12 – 19 –
130 113 147 390 87
Remeasurement gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 259 240 (14) 485 64
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2016 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 70 66 110 246 31
Past service cost 52 1 1 54 3
Net interest cost 9 27 20 56 56
Gains from settlements – – (28) (28) –
Expenses 7 12 – 19 –
138 106 103 347 90
Remeasurement losses recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (165) (27) (224) (416) (59)
The amounts included within past service costs in the UK include a charge of £40 million in relation to the estimated impact of GMP
equalisation and £43 million (2017 – £37 million; 2016 – £52 million) of augmentation costs of which £21 million is arising from major
restructuring programmes (see Note 29, ‘Other provisions’).177
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set out in the
table below:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 760 538 313
Recognised in Assets held for sale:
Post-retirement benefits (9) – –
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (1,755) (2,043) (2,397)
Post-retirement benefits (1,370) (1,496) (1,693)
(3,125) (3,539) (4,090)
In the event of a plan wind-up, GSK believes the UK pension scheme rules provide the company with the right to a refund of surplus assets
following the full settlement of plan liabilities. As a result, the net surplus in the UK defined benefit pension schemes is recognised in full.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other
defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 3,257 1,280 518 5,055
– unlisted – – 7 7
Multi-asset funds 2,997 – – 2,997
Property: – listed – – 33 33
– unlisted 423 231 4 658
Corporate bonds: – listed 404 783 111 1,298
– unlisted 306 – 25 331
Government bonds: – listed 3,835 286 795 4,916
Insurance contracts 770 – 831 1,601
Other assets 589 228 66 883
Fair value of assets 12,581 2,808 2,390 17,779
Present value of scheme obligations (12,087) (3,474) (3,213) (18,774)
Net surplus/(obligation) 494 (666) (823) (995)
Included in Other non-current assets 711 – 49 760
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (217) (666) (872) (1,755)
494 (666) (823) (995)
Actual return on plan assets (88) (123) 55 (156)
The multi-asset funds comprise investments in pooled investment vehicles that are invested across a range of asset classes, increasing
diversification within the growth portfolio. The ‘Other assets’ category comprises cash and mark to market values of derivative positions.
In previous years, index-linked gilts held as part of a UK repo programme were included in government bonds. The related loan was
included within ‘Other assets’ at a value of £(773) million at 31 December 2017 (2016 – £(1,686) million). This programme was cancelled
during 2018.178
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 4,902 1,448 544 6,894
– unlisted – – 13 13
Multi-asset funds 2,517 – – 2,517
Property: – unlisted 352 209 32 593
Corporate bonds: – listed 297 820 103 1,220
– unlisted 326 – 20 346
Government bonds: – listed 5,127 239 762 6,128
Insurance contracts 849 – 707 1,556
Other assets (1,216) 158 71 (987)
Fair value of assets 13,154 2,874 2,252 18,280
Present value of scheme obligations (13,101) (3,445) (3,239) (19,785)
Net surplus/(obligation) 53 (571) (987) (1,505)
Included in Other non-current assets 470 – 68 538
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (417) (571) (1,055) (2,043)
53 (571) (987) (1,505)
Actual return on plan assets 893 394 82 1,369
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 5,357 1,358 486 7,201
– unlisted – – 14 14
Multi-asset funds 1,545 – – 1,545
Property: – unlisted 314 216 28 558
Corporate bonds: – listed 292 213 96 601
– unlisted 321 – 24 345
Government bonds: – listed 6,165 815 739 7,719
Insurance contracts 856 – 637 1,493
Other assets (2,267) 288 73 (1,906)
Fair value of assets 12,583 2,890 2,097 17,570
Present value of scheme obligations (12,884) (3,752) (3,018) (19,654)
Net obligation (301) (862) (921) (2,084)
Included in Other non-current assets 276 – 37 313
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (577) (862) (958) (2,397)
(301) (862) (921) (2,084)
Actual return on plan assets 2,473 153 99 2,725179
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2016 10,284 2,501 1,750 14,535 –
Exchange adjustments – 459 305 764 –
Interest income 385 108 37 530 –
Expenses (7) (12) – (19) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (110) (110) –
Remeasurement 2,088 45 62 2,195 –
Employer contributions 319 31 131 481 91
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 14 18 17
Benefits paid (490) (242) (92) (824) (108)
Assets at 31 December 2016 12,583 2,890 2,097 17,570 –
Exchange adjustments – (244) 24 (220) –
Interest income 333 104 33 470 –
Expenses (7) (12) – (19) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (4) (4) –
Remeasurement 560 290 49 899 –
Employer contributions 225 103 116 444 101
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 17 21 17
Benefits paid (544) (257) (80) (881) (118)
Assets at 31 December 2017 13,154 2,874 2,252 18,280 –
Exchange adjustments – 171 53 224 –
Interest income 323 102 29 454 –
Expenses (8) (7) – (15) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (14) (14) –
Remeasurement (411) (225) 26 (610) –
Employer contributions 119 150 117 386 93
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 16 20 16
Benefits paid (600) (257) (89) (946) (109)
Assets at 31 December 2018 12,581 2,808 2,390 17,779 –
During 2018, the Group made no special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes (2017 – £136 million; 2016 – £191 million) but
£125 million (2017 – £78 million; 2016 – £nil) to the US scheme. In 2018, GSK reached a revised agreement with the trustees of the UK
pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficits identified within the schemes at the 31 December 2017
actuarial funding valuation. Based on these funding agreements, the additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit are expected to
be £75 million in 2019. Further payments have been agreed for the years 2020 to 2022 and these are included within Note 41, ‘Commitments’
on page 197. This funding commitment supersedes the previous agreement made in 2016. The contributions were based on a government
bond yield curve approach to selecting the discount rate; the rate chosen included an allowance for expected investment returns which
reflected the asset mix of the schemes.
Employer contributions for 2019, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £420 million in respect of defined
benefit pension schemes and £100 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.180
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2016 (10,601) (3,134) (2,384) (16,119) (1,387)
Exchange adjustments – (586) (396) (982) (248)
Service cost (70) (66) (110) (246) (31)
Past service cost (52) (1) (1) (54) (3)
Interest cost (394) (135) (57) (586) (56)
Settlements and curtailments – – 138 138 –
Remeasurement (2,253) (72) (286) (2,611) (59)
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (14) (18) (17)
Benefits paid 490 242 92 824 108
Obligations at 31 December 2016 (12,884) (3,752) (3,018) (19,654) (1,693)
Exchange adjustments – 305 (45) 260 119
Service cost (79) (70) (131) (280) (30)
Past service cost/(credit) (37) – – (37) 2
Interest cost (340) (135) (49) (524) (59)
Settlements and curtailments – – 4 4 –
Remeasurement (301) (50) (63) (414) 64
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (17) (21) (17)
Benefits paid 544 257 80 881 118
Obligations at 31 December 2017 (13,101) (3,445) (3,239) (19,785) (1,496)
Exchange adjustments – (208) (63) (271) (71)
Service cost (75) (72) (134) (281) (29)
Past service cost (93) (1) – (94) 27
Interest cost (320) (122) (48) (490) (49)
Settlements and curtailments – – 28 28 1
Remeasurement 906 117 170 1,193 145
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (16) (20) (16)
Benefits paid 600 257 89 946 109
Obligations at 31 December 2018 (12,087) (3,474) (3,213) (18,774) (1,379)
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Funded (18,025) (19,052) (18,974)
Unfunded (749) (733) (680)
(18,774) (19,785) (19,654)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme,
together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 6.50% (2017 – 6.75%), grading down to 5.0% in 2025 and thereafter. At
31 December 2018, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £1,179 million (2017 – £1,254 million; 2016 – £1,463 million).
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.181
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
At 1 January (1,505) (2,084) (1,584)
Exchange adjustments (47) 40 (218)
Service cost (281) (280) (246)
Past service cost (94) (37) (54)
Interest cost (36) (54) (56)
Settlements and curtailments 14 – 28
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest (610) 899 2,195
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 131 209 85
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions 1,149 (555) (2,770)
Experience (losses)/gains (87) (68) 74
Employer contributions 386 444 481
Expenses (15) (19) (19)
At 31 December (995) (1,505) (2,084)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Gain from change in demographic assumptions 6 47 –
Gain/(loss) from change in financial assumptions 100 (1) (81)
Experience gains 39 18 22
145 64 (59)182
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Active 4,427 4,611 4,576
Retired 9,542 9,805 9,574
Deferred 4,805 5,369 5,504
18,774 19,785 19,654
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Active 499 514 594
Retired 879 981 1,099
Deferred 1 1 –
1,379 1,496 1,693
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2018 2017 2016
years years years
Pension benefits 15 16 16
Post-retirement benefits 11 11 12
Sensitivity analysis
The effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2019 annual defined benefit pension and post-retirement
costs are detailed below. This information has been determined by taking into account the duration of the liabilities and the overall profile of
the plan memberships.
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 28
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost (1)
Increase in pension obligation 707
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 34
A one-year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 21
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in pension obligation 592
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 33
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 38
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 18
Increase in pension obligation 447183
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
29. Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring -related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2018 186 504 304 271 1,265
Exchange adjustments 13 17 9 5 44
Charge for the year 119 450 105 50 724
Reversed unused (2) (99) (25) (46) (172)
Unwinding of discount 2 4 – 9 15
Utilised (98) (226) (41) (79) (444)
Reclassifications and other movements (1) 12 (2) 3 12
Transfer to Pension obligations – (21) – – (21)
At 31 December 2018 219 641 350 213 1,423
To be settled within one year 156 362 145 69 732
To be settled after one year 63 279 205 144 691
At 31 December 2018 219 641 350 213 1,423
Legal and other disputes Major restructuring programmes
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other The Group is undertaking two major restructuring programmes:
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in the Combined restructuring and integration programme and the
Note 45 ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other disputes 2018 major restructuring programme. The programmes are focused
include amounts relating to product liability, anti-trust, government primarily on simplifying supply chain processes, rationalising the
investigations, contract terminations, self insurance and Group’s manufacturing network and restructuring the
environmental clean-up. Pharmaceuticals commercial operations.
The charge for the year of £117 million (net of reversals and Provisions for staff severance payments are made when management
estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to provisions has made a formal decision to eliminate certain positions and this
for product liability cases, commercial disputes and various other has been communicated to the groups of employees affected and
government investigations. appropriate consultation procedures completed, where appropriate.
No provision is made for staff severance payments that are made
The discount on the provisions increased by £2 million in 2018
immediately.
(2017 – increased by £2 million). The discount was calculated
using risk-adjusted projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return. Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of
£21 million (2017 – £18 million) have been charged during the
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products,
year and then transferred to the pension obligations provision as
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
shown in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required
Asset write-downs have been recognised as impairments of
to cover unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters
property, plant and equipment in Note 17, ‘Property, plant and
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
equipment’. The majority of the amounts provided are expected
outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible
to be utilised in the next two years.
settlement negotiations.
Employee-related provisions
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain medical
matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over
benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in the US. At
many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various appeal
31 December 2018, the provision for these benefits amounted to
procedures, often take many years to reach resolution, and
£87 million (2017 – £108 million). Other employee benefits reflect
out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be protracted.
a variety of provisions for severance costs, jubilee awards and other
Indemnified disputes will recognise a provision charge and a
long-service benefits. Given the nature of these provisions, the
corresponding receivable.
amounts are likely to be settled over many years.
The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of
Other provisions
the disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based
Included in other provisions are insurance provisions of £7 million
on its current assessment of the progress of these disputes,
(2017 – £6 million), onerous property lease provisions of
estimates that £156 million of the amount provided at 31 December
£6 million (2017 – £38 million) and a number of other provisions
2018 will be settled within one year. At 31 December 2018, it was
including vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.
expected that £37 million (2017 – £nil) of the provision made for
legal and other disputes will be reimbursed by third parties. For
a discussion of legal issues, see Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.184
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Other non-current liabilities
2018 2017
£m £m
Accruals 71 82
Deferred Income 19 22
Other payables 848 877
938 981
Other payables includes acquisition accounting market value lease adjustments and a number of employee-related liabilities.
31. Net debt
2018 2017
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 84 78
Cash and cash equivalents 3,874 3,833
Cash and cash equivalents reported in Assets held for sale 485 –
4,443 3,911
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper (630) (529)
Bank loans and overdrafts (290) (236)
Obligations under finance leases (24) (23)
Drawn bank facility (3,500) –
5.650% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange – (2,037)
0.625% € European Medium Term Note 2019 London Stock Exchange (1,349) –
(5,793) (2,825)
Long-term borrowings:
0.625% € European Medium Term Note 2019 London Stock Exchange – (1,324)
EURIBOR +0.20% € European Medium Term Note 2020 London Stock Exchange (677) –
0.000% € European Medium Term Note 2020 London Stock Exchange (1,079) (1,060)
3.125% US$ US Medium Term Note 2021 New York Stock Exchange (980) –
LIBOR +0.35% US$ US Medium Term Note 2021 New York Stock Exchange (589) –
2.850% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,568) (1,474)
2.800% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (978) (919)
3.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (977) –
1.375% € European Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (893) (876)
4.000% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (670) (659)
3.625% US$ US Medium Term Note 2025 New York Stock Exchange (780) –
1.000% € European Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (629) (617)
1.250% € European Medium Term Note 2026 London Stock Exchange (897) –
3.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (593) (593)
3.875% US$ US Medium Term Note 2028 New York Stock Exchange (1,372) –
1.375% € European Medium Term Note 2029 London Stock Exchange (447) (439)
1.750% € European Medium Term Note 2030 London Stock Exchange (673) –
5.250% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (982) (986)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 New York Stock Exchange (390) (368)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (2,143) (2,021)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (694) (695)
5.250% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (986) (989)
4.200% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (386) (363)
4.250% £ European Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (788) (789)
Obligations under finance leases (44) (43)
Other long-term borrowings (56) (49)
(20,271) (14,264)
Net debt (21,621) (13,178)185
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
31. Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as financial assets at amortised cost (previously available-for-sale investments in prior years).
At 31 December 2018, they included US Treasury Notes and other government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments
at 31 December 2018 was approximately 1.0% (2017 – approximately 1.0%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2018 earning
interest at floating rates amount to £84 million (2017 – £78 million). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2018 earning interest
at fixed rates amount to £nil (2017 – £nil).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2018 was approximately 1.9% (2017 – approximately 1.3%).
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2018 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £4,094 million and £2 million
respectively (2017 – £3,832 million and £1 million) and non-interest bearing holdings amount to £263 million.
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is referred to in Note 42, ‘Financial instruments and related
disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a $10 billion (£7.9 billion) US commercial paper programme, of which $0.8 billion (£0.6 billion) was in issue at 31 December 2018
(2017 – $0.7 billion (£0.5 billion)). GSK has a £1.9 billion five-year committed facility and $2.5 billion (£2.0 billion) under a 364 day
committed facility. The five-year committed facility was agreed in September 2015 and extended by one year to 2021 in September 2016.
The 364 day committed facility was agreed in September 2018. Additional bank facilities were agreed in 2018 to support transactions and
two remained active at 31 December 2018. In June 2018, £3.5 billion was drawn to support the acquisition from Novartis of the remaining
stake in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture. In addition, a $5.0 billion bank facility was agreed in December 2018 to support the
acquisition of Tesaro and was undrawn at 31 December 2018. Liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents were as shown in the table
on page 184.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31 December 2018 was 2.5% (2017 – 1.5%).
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2018 was 12.0% (2017 – 4.7%). At 31 December
2018, short-term loan rates of 60% in Argentina had a disproportionate effect on the weighted average interest rate. Excluding this impact
the weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts stands at 4.4%.
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of notes classified as short term at 31 December 2018 was 0.8% (2017 – 5.9%). The material
decrease in the rate largely reflects the maturity of a 5.65% coupon note in May 2018 and the upcoming maturity of a 0.625% coupon note
in December 2019.
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £20.3 billion (2017 – £14.3 billion), of which £13.3 billion (2017 – £10.3 billion) falls
due in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2018 was approximately 4.4%
(2017 – approximately 3.6%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 1.1% and 6.4%, with repayment dates ranging from
2024 to 2045.
Pledged assets
The Group held pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $50 million (£39 million), (2017 – $105 million (£78 million))
as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance activity. Provisions
in respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
In addition, in 2017, £20 million of assets included in Note 22, ‘Other non-current assets’, which do not form part of Net debt, were pledged
as collateral against future rental payments under operating lease arrangements which were previously entered into by Human Genome
Sciences, Inc. prior to its acquisition by the Group, and terminated in 2018.
Finance lease obligations
2018 2017
£m £m
Rental payments due within one year 29 25
Rental payments due between one and two years 20 29
Rental payments due between two and three years 13 9
Rental payments due between three and four years 7 3
Rental payments due between four and five years 4 2
Rental payments due after five years 11 10
Total future rental payments 84 78
Future finance charges (16) (12)
Total finance lease obligations 68 66186
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
32. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2018, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of business,
amounted to £93 million (2017 – £434 million). At 31 December 2018, £nil (2017 – £2 million) of financial assets were pledged as collateral
for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the Group will suffer
an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable estimate of that outflow. At 31 December 2018, other than for those disputes where
provision has been made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle
disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote. Descriptions of the significant legal and other disputes to
which the Group is a party are set out in Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.
33. Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2016 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2017 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2018 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2016 5,361,307,647 1,340 2,831
Issued under employee share schemes 7,008,415 2 87
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 36
At 31 December 2016 5,368,316,062 1,342 2,954
Issued under employee share schemes 4,237,758 1 55
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 10
At 31 December 2017 5,372,553,820 1,343 3,019
Issued under employee share schemes 6,513,804 2 72
At 31 December 2018 5,379,067,624 1,345 3,091
31 December 2018 31 December 2017
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 56,723 38,647
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,564,209 4,588,799
At 31 December 2018, of the issued share capital, 41,530,909 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 414,605,950 shares were held
as Treasury shares and 4,922,930,765 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values
of the shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 43, ‘Employee share schemes’.187
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
34. Movements in equity
Retained losses and other reserves amounted to £76 million at 31 December 2018 (2017 – £4,430 million loss; 2016 – £3,172 million loss)
of which £337 million (2017 – £334 million; 2016 – £329 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative
translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2016 (761) 10 (109) (860)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 633 13 603 1,249
At 31 December 2016 (128) 23 494 389
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 462 – (149) 313
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 109 – – 109
At 31 December 2017 443 23 345 811
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (458) (22) (1) (481)
At 31 December 2018 (15) 1 344 330
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2018 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (458) (22) – (480)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 140 – 140
Reclassification of cash flow hedges on income and expense – (175) – (175)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (22) – (22)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of cash flow hedges – 20 – 20
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (1) (1)
Fair value movements on equity investments – 180 – 180
Deferred tax on fair value movements on equity investments – 10 – 10
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 728 – – 728
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (146) – – (146)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 124 131 (1) 254
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2017 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 462 – – 462
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 109 – – 109
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (14) – (14)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (42) – (42)
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 47 – 47
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – (18) – (18)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (10) – (10)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – (149) (149)
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 549 – – 549
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (221) – – (221)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 899 (37) (149) 713188
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
34. Movements in equity continued
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2016 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 633 13 – 646
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 251 – 251
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (245) – (245)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments – 51 – 51
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1 – 1
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – 603 603
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans (475) – – (475)
Tax on remeasurement losses in defined benefit plans 126 – – 126
Other comprehensive income for the year 284 75 603 962
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2016 (75) 295 (9) 2,129 2,340
Exchange adjustments (16) – – – (16)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (268) – – (268)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairments – 23 – – 23
Net fair value movement in the year – 330 6 – 336
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (576) – – – (576)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 381 – – – 381
At 31 December 2016 (286) 380 (3) 2,129 2,220
Exchange adjustments 22 – – – 22
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (42) – – (42)
Net fair value movement in the year – (9) (8) – (17)
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (656) – – – (656)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 520 – – – 520
At 31 December 2017 (400) 329 (11) 2,129 2,047
Implementation of IFRS 9 – (288) – – (288)
At 31 December, as adjusted (400) 41 (11) 2,129 1,759
Exchange adjustments (26) – – – (26)
Transferred to Retained earnings in the year on disposal of equity investments – (94) – – (94)
Net fair value movement in the year – 193 (36) – 157
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 265 – – – 265
At 31 December 2018 (161) 140 (47) 2,129 2,061
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2018
(2017 – £1,849 million; 2016 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the
share buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2018 (2017 – £280 million; 2016 – £280 million).189
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
35. Related party transactions
At 31 December 2018, GSK owned 32 million shares or 31.7% of Innoviva Inc. which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ.
GSK began recognising Innoviva as an associate on 1 September 2015. The royalties due from GSK to Innoviva in the year were £209 million
(2017 – £173 million). At 31 December 2018, the balance payable by GSK to Innoviva was £64 million (2017 – £53 million).
At 31 December 2018, GSK held a 50% interest in Japan Vaccine Co. Ltd (JVC) through its subsidiary GlaxoSmithKline K.K. This joint
venture with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd is primarily responsible for the development and marketing of certain prophylactic vaccines in Japan.
During 2018, GSK sold £43 million (2017 – £41 million) of its vaccine products into the joint venture. At 31 December 2018, the trading
balance due to GSK from JVC was £15 million (2017 – £11 million) and the balance payable by GSK to JVC was £nil (2017 – £nil).
Loans of £5 million to Medicxi Ventures I LP and £6 million to Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP remained due to GSK at 31 December 2018.
In 2018, GSK increased the equity investment in Kurma Biofund II, FCPR by £3 million, Apollo Therapeutics LLP by £2 million and Longwood
Founders Fund LP by £0.2 million, and reduced a liability with Qura Therapeutics LLC by £3 million. As at 31 December 2018, the
outstanding liability to Qura was £4 million.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 9, ‘Employee costs’.
36. Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 4,046 2,169 1,062
Tax on profits 754 1,356 877
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (31) (13) (5)
Finance expense net of finance income 717 669 664
Depreciation 954 988 978
Amortisation of intangible assets 902 934 796
Impairment and assets written off 350 1,061 226
Profit on sale of businesses (63) (157) (5)
Profit on sale of intangible assets (201) (46) (178)
Profit on sale of investments in associates (3) (94) –
Profit on sale of equity investments (4) (37) (254)
Gain on Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put hedging (513) – –
Business acquisition costs 47 – –
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 51 (461) 70
Increase in trade receivables (429) (287) (188)
Increase in trade payables 131 11 96
Decrease in other receivables 18 74 381
Contingent consideration paid (see Note •) (984) (594) (358)
Other non-cash increase in contingent consideration liabilities 1,250 961 2,281
Increase in other payables 2,362 1,741 1,989
Increase/(decrease) in pension and other provisions 102 (255) (621)
Share-based incentive plans 360 333 319
Fair value adjustments (7) – (3)
Other (62) (95) (21)
5,701 6,089 7,044
Cash generated from operations 9,747 8,258 8,106190
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
37. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (13,178) (13,804) (10,727)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts 479 (905) (1,164)
Decrease in liquid investments – (4) –
Net increase in long-term loans (10,138) (2,233) –
Repayment of short-term Notes 2,067 2,636 865
(Increase in)/repayment of other short-term loans (81) 564 (1,013)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 28 23 18
Exchange adjustments (776) 585 (1,781)
Other non-cash movements (22) (40) (2)
Movement in net debt (8,443) 626 (3,077)
Net debt at end of year (21,621) (13,178) (13,804)
At 1 January Profit Reclass- At 31 December
2018 Exchange Other and loss ifications Cash flow 2018
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 78 5 1 – – – 84
Cash and cash equivalents 3,833 4 – – (485) 522 3,874
Cash and cash equivalents – AHFS – 485 485
Overdrafts (233) 4 – – – (43) (272)
3,600 8 – – – 479 4,087
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (529) (36) – – – (65) (630)
European/US Medium Term Notes and bank facilities (2,037) (55) – – (4,824) 2,067 (4,849)
Other (26) (1) (11) – (16) 12 (42)
(2,592) (92) (11) – (4,840) 2,014 (5,521)
Debt due after one year:
European/US Medium Term Notes and bank facilities (14,221) (696) – 4 4,824 (10,138) (20,227)
Other (43) (1) (16) – 16 – (44)
(14,264) (697) (16) 4 4,840 (10,138) (20,271)
Net debt (13,178) (776) (26) 4 – (7,645) (21,621)
Analysis of changes in liabilities from financing activities
Debt due within one year (2,592) (92) (11) – (4,840) 2,014 (5,521)
Debt due after one year (14,264) (697) (16) 4 4,840 (10,138) (20,271)
Hedge of borrowings:
Derivative financial instruments 2 1 130 (10) – 6 129
Other financing items – (19) – – – 19 –
Interest payable (203) (2) 2 (802) – 766 (239)
Total liabilities from financing activities (17,057) (809) 105 (808) – (7,333) (25,902)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 31, ‘Net debt’.191
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
38. Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2018
Business acquisitions
There were no business acquisitions during 2018.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of small business disposals during the year for a net cash consideration of £2 million.
Cash flows
Associates Associates
and joint and joint
Business venture venture
disposals investments disposals
£m £m £m
Cash consideration 2 (10) 3
Net deferred consideration received 24 – –
Cash and cash equivalents divested – – –
Cash inflow 26 (10) 3
Transactions signed but not yet completed
In December 2018, GSK agreed to divest Horlicks and other Consumer Healthcare nutrition brands to Unilever plc and to merge
GSK Consumer Healthcare Limited with Hindustan Unilever Limited for a total consideration valued at approximately £3.1 billion. GSK
Consumer Healthcare Limited is a public company listed on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) and Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) in
India, in which GSK holds a 72.5% stake. Hindustan Unilever Limited is a public company listed on the NSE and BSE. Following the merger,
GSK will own approximately 5.7% of Hindustan Unilever Limited. The transaction is expected to complete by the end of 2019, subject to
the fulfilment of certain conditions including the approval of the merger by the shareholders of GSK Consumer Healthcare Limited and
Hindustan Unilever Limited.
The Group has entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as a cash flow hedge of part of the foreign
exchange exposure arising on the transaction. In addition, the exposure to share price movements in the forward purchase of shares in
Hindustan Unilever Limited has been recognised as an embedded derivative. The embedded derivative was in an asset position and had
a fair value of £100 million at 31 December 2018.
In December 2018, GSK agreed to acquire 100% of Tesaro, Inc., an oncology-focused biopharmaceutical company, for $5.1 billion
(£4.0 billion) in cash. This transaction completed on 22nd January 2019. The exercise to determine the acquisition fair values of assets
and liabilities is not yet complete. Initial transaction costs were recognised in December 2018.
In December 2018, GSK agreed to form a new Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture by acquiring Pfizer’s consumer health business in
an all-share transaction. Pfizer will hold 32% of the combined business which will be controlled by GSK. The new Consumer Healthcare
Joint Venture is expected to be formed in the second half of 2019, subject to approvals. Initial transaction costs were recognised in
December 2018.192
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Acquisitions and disposals continued
2017
Business acquisitions
There were no business acquisitions during 2017.
Business disposals
GSK made a number of small business disposals during the year for a net cash consideration of £342 million, including contingent
consideration receivable of £86 million. The profit on disposal was determined as follows:
Total
£m
Consideration including currency forwards and purchase adjustments 342
Net assets sold:
Goodwill (16)
Intangible assets (21)
Property, plant and equipment (18)
Inventory (11)
Cash and cash equivalents (6)
Other net assets (5)
(77)
Transaction costs (8)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (100)
Profit on disposal 157
Investment in associates and joint ventures
During the year, GSK made cash investments of £15 million into associates and joint ventures. In addition, GSK sold its holdings in two
associates for £198 million in cash.
Total
£m
Cash consideration 198
Net book value of shares (92)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (7)
Transaction costs (5)
Profit on disposal 94
Cash flows
Associates Associates
and joint and joint
Business venture venture
disposals investments disposals
£m £m £m
Cash consideration 256 (15) 198
Net deferred consideration received 39 – –
Cash and cash equivalents divested (6) – –
Transaction costs paid (7) – (2)
Cash inflow 282 (15) 196193
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
38. Acquisitions and disposals continued
2016
Business acquisitions
GSK completed two small business acquisitions during 2016.
Cash consideration of £24 million was paid in the year to acquire the HIV R&D preclinical and discovery stage portfolio from Bristol Myers
Squibb. Further consideration, contingent on commercial milestones and future sales performance, may be due, and an initial estimate of
£40 million was recognised for this contingent consideration. Intangible assets acquired were valued at £57 million and goodwill of £7 million
was recognised.
GSK formed Galvani Bioelectronics Limited during the year and acquired intangible assets of £45 million and cash and cash equivalents
of £41 million from Verily Life Sciences LLC in return for a 45% shareholding in Galvani Bioelectronics. The fair value of this shareholding
was £47 million, and GSK also recognised a credit of £39 million in non-controlling interests representing Verily’s share of the net assets
it contributed.
Business disposals
GSK also made a number of small business disposals in the year for net cash consideration of £72 million. In addition, deferred consideration
receivable of £43 million was recognised.
Cash flows
Business Business
acquisitions disposals
£m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/received after purchase adjustments (24) 72
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 41 –
Cash inflow 17 72
In addition, GSK made cash investments of £11 million into associates and joint ventures.194
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
39. Contingent consideration liabilities
The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:
Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2016 3,409 405 41 3,855
Additions through business combinations 154 – 40 194
Remeasurement through income statement 2,162 152 (33) 2,281
Cash payments: operating cash flows (351) (5) (2) (358)
Cash payments: investing activities (66) (7) – (73)
Other movements (4) – 1 (3)
At 31 December 2016 5,304 545 47 5,896
Remeasurement through income statement 909 53 (1) 961
Cash payments: operating cash flows (587) (7) – (594)
Cash payments: investing activities (84) (7) – (91)
At 31 December 2017 5,542 584 46 6,172
Remeasurement through income statement 1,188 56 7 1,251
Cash payments: operating cash flows (703) (281) – (984)
Cash payments: investing activities (90) (63) – (153)
At 31 December 2018 5,937 296 53 6,286
Of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2018, £837 million (2017 – £1,076 million) is expected to be paid within one year.
The contingent consideration payable in respect of the Novartis Vaccines business included a sales milestone of $450 million which was
settled in January 2018.
The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the Novartis Vaccines business is
expected to be paid over a number of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present values, shown above.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8.5% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration
liability is discounted partly at 8% and partly at 9%.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare and Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liabilities are calculated principally based on the forecast sales
performance of specified products over the lives of those products.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in key
inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration liabilities.
Shionogi- Novartis
ViiV Healthcare Vaccines
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 569 62
10% decrease in sales forecasts (569) (62)
1% increase in discount rate (238) (22)
1% decrease in discount rate 256 26
5% increase in probability of milestone success 7
5% decrease in probability of milestone success (7)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 367 (13)
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (313) 11
10 cent appreciation of Euro 114 29
10 cent depreciation of Euro (95) (25)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 41.195
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
40. Non-controlling interests
ViiV Healthcare
The ViiV Healthcare subgroup has a material non-controlling interest. Summarised financial information in respect of the ViiV Healthcare
group is as follows:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Turnover 4,665 4,269 3,527
Profit/(loss) after taxation 560 825 (1,249)
Other comprehensive income 19 20 36
Total comprehensive income/(expense) 579 845 (1,213)
2018 2017
£m £m
Non-current assets 2,787 2,736
Current assets 2,643 2,533
Total assets 5,430 5,269
Current liabilities (2,638) (2,409)
Non-current liabilities (8,895) (8,011)
Total liabilities (11,533) (10,420)
Net liabilities (6,103) (5,151)
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,212 2,132 1,750
Net cash outflow from investing activities (237) (207) (326)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,982) (1,820) (1,023)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts in the year (7) 105 401
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related adjustments,
primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The profit after taxation of £560 million (2017 – profit after taxation of
£825 million; 2016 – loss after taxation of £1,249 million) is stated after charging preferential dividends payable to GSK, Shionogi and Pfizer
and after a charge of £1,194 million (2017 – £909 million; 2016 – £2,186 million) for remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable
for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years.
The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s Consolidated statement of comprehensive income,
Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated balance sheet:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 254 187 (83)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 332 316 152
Non-controlling interests in the Consolidated balance sheet (543) (476)196
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Non-controlling interests continued
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
During 2018, the Group acquired Novartis’ interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture to obtain 100% ownership. The acquisition
became unconditional on 3 May 2018 and completed on 1 June 2018. Summarised financial information in respect of the Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture is as follows:
Period ended
3 May 2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Turnover 2,306 7,003 6,530
Profit after taxation 7 1,211 660
Other comprehensive (expense)/income (79) (387) 1,640
Total comprehensive (expense)/income (72) 824 2,300
2017
£m
Non-current assets 12,771
Current assets 3,282
Total assets 16,053
Current liabilities (2,675)
Non-current liabilities (1,537)
Total liabilities (4,212)
Net assets 11,841
Period ended
3 May 2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 65 883 1,496
Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities 442 270 (537)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (504) (1,194) (980)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts in the year 3 (41) (21)
The above financial information relates to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related
adjustments but after major restructuring charges.
The following amounts attributable to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture are included in GSK’s Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated balance sheet:
2018 2017 2016
£m £m £m
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 111 296 730
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 183 420 346
Non-controlling interests in the Consolidated balance sheet – 3,631197
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
41. Commitments
2018 2017
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 4,762 5,254
Property, plant and equipment 665 584
Investments 82 107
Purchase commitments 561 346
Pensions 238 738
Other commitments – 38
Interest on loans 9,418 8,510
Finance lease charges 16 12
15,742 15,589
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development or
on meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are achieved.
The amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. The decrease in intangible commitments in 2018 is mainly attributable to the reduction
in commitments to third parties such as Nkarta, Inc.
In 2018, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension
deficit identified at the 31 December 2017 actuarial funding valuation. A payment of £75 million is due in both 2019 and 2020 and a payment
of £44 million is due in both 2021 and 2022. The table above includes this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding
requirement in the UK of approximately £140 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are disclosed below. £161 million (2017 – £117 million) is provided against these
commitments on the Group’s balance sheet.
2018 2017
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 223 186
Rental payments due between one and two years 173 149
Rental payments due between two and three years 143 122
Rental payments due between three and four years 123 107
Rental payments due between four and five years 105 94
Rental payments due after five years 371 387
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 1,138 1,045198
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures
The objective of our Treasury activity is to minimise the post-tax In addition a $5.0 billion bank facility was agreed in December 2018
net cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility to benefit to support the acquisition of Tesaro and was undrawn at 31
earnings and cash flows. GSK uses a variety of financial instruments December 2018. This 12-month facility includes two six-month
to finance its operations and derivative financial instruments to extension options.
manage market risks from these operations. Derivatives principally
GSK has a £20.0 billion European Medium Term Note programme
comprise of foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps which
and at 31 December 2018, £11.4 billion of notes were in issue under
are used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into currencies
this programme. The Group also had $12.9 billion (£10.2 billion) of
required for Group purposes as well as interest rate swaps which
notes in issue at 31 December 2018 under a US shelf registration.
are used to manage exposure to financial risks from changes in
GSK’s borrowings mature at dates between 2019 and 2045.
interest rates. These financial instruments reduce the uncertainty
of foreign currency transactions and interest payments. The put option owned by Pfizer in ViiV Healthcare is exercisable.
In reviewing liquidity requirements GSK considers that sufficient
Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes in relation
financing options are available should the put option be exercised.
to underlying business activities and not as trading or speculative
instruments. Market risk
Capital management Interest rate risk management
The objective of GSK’s Treasury activity is to minimise the effective
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities
net interest cost and to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating
and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the capital
rates over time.
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity.
The Group’s main interest rate risk arises from borrowings and
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of
investments with floating rates and refinancing of maturing fixed rate
£21.6 billion (see Note 31, ‘Net debt’) and total equity, including
debt where any changes in interest rates will affect future cash flows
items related to non-controlling interests, of £3.7 billion (see
or the fair values of financial instruments. The policy on interest rate
‘Consolidated statement of changes in equity’ on page 142).
risk management limits the net amount of floating rate debt to a
Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling interests,
specific cap, reviewed and agreed no less than annually by the
is £25.3 billion.
Board.
The Group continues to manage its financial policies to a credit
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in
profile that particularly targets short-term credit ratings of A-1 and
the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the Group’s
P-1 while maintaining single A long-term ratings consistent with
net interest charge. This includes some borrowings for which interest
those targets. The Group’s long-term credit rating with Standard and
rate swaps are in place which removes the impact of the associated
Poor’s is A+ (negative outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services
periodic repricing. Short-term borrowings including bank facilities
(‘Moody’s’) it is A2 (negative outlook). The Group’s short-term credit
are exposed to the risk of future changes in market interest rate as
ratings are A-1 and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s
are the majority of cash and liquid investments.
respectively.
Foreign exchange risk management
Liquidity risk management
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external trade
flows are not normally hedged. Foreign currency transaction
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated
exposures arising on internal trade flows are selectively hedged. The
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity sources
Group’s objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
using a range of facilities and to maintain broad access to financial
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income
markets.
with local currency costs where possible. GSK’s internal trading
At 31 December 2018, GSK had £5.8 billion of borrowings transactions are matched centrally and inter-company payment
repayable within one year and held £4.5 billion of cash and cash terms are managed to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency
equivalents and liquid investments of which £2.9 billion was cash flows can be hedged selectively including hedges of the
held centrally. GSK has access to short-term finance under a foreign exchange risk arising from acquisitions and disposals of
$10.0 billion (£7.9 billion) US commercial paper programme; assets. Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or
$0.8 billion (£0.6 billion) was in issue at 31 December 2018 borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using
(2017 – $0.7 billion). GSK has a £1.9 billion five-year committed forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the
facility and a $2.5 billion (£2.0 billion) 364-day committed facility. originating currency.
The five-year committed facility was agreed in September 2015 and
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the Group
was extended by one year to 2021 in September 2016. The 364-day
seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal
committed facility was agreed in September 2018. These facilities
assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US
were undrawn at 31 December 2018. GSK considers this level of
Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings can be swapped into other
committed facilities to be adequate, given current liquidity
currencies as required.
requirements.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
Additional bank facilities were agreed in 2018 to support
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated
transactions and two remain active at 31 December 2018. In
as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major
June 2018, £3.5 billion was drawn to support the acquisition from
currencies are also used to reduce exposure to the Group’s
Novartis of the remaining stake in the Consumer Healthcare Joint
investment in overseas assets (see ‘Net investment hedges’
Venture. This facility, which is due to mature in December 2019
section of this note for further details).
includes one extension option through to June 2020.199
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Credit risk GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing surplus
cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s strategy to
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its
regionalise cash management and to concentrate cash centrally as
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group
much as possible. The table below sets out the credit exposure to
and arises on cash and cash equivalents, favourable derivative
counterparties by rating for liquid investments, cash and cash
financial instruments held with banks and financial institutions
equivalents and derivatives.
as well as credit exposures to wholesale and retail customers,
including outstanding receivables. The gross asset position on each derivative contract is considered
for the purpose of this table, although, under ISDA agreements, the
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December
amount at risk is the net position with each counterparty. Table (e)
2018 to be £11,080 million (31 December 2017 – £9,988 million)
on page 208 sets out the Group’s financial assets and liabilities on
which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with the exception
an offset basis.
of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity investments) which bear
equity risk rather than credit risk. See page 201 for details on the At 31 December 2018, £20 million of cash is categorised as held
Group’s total financial assets. At 31 December 2018, GSK’s with unrated or sub-investment grade rated counterparties (lower
greatest concentration of credit risk was £0.7 billion with Citibank than BBB-/Baa3) of which £1 million is cash in transit. The remaining
(A+/A1) (2017 – £0.5 billion with Citibank (A/A1) and £0.5 billion exposure is concentrated in overseas banks used for local cash
with one US wholesaler (BBB+/Baa2)). management or investment purposes, including £6 million in Nigeria
held with United Bank for Africa, Zenith Bank, Stanbic IBTC Bank and
There has been no change in the estimation techniques or
First Bank of Nigeria, £3 million with BTV in Austria, £2 million with
significant assumptions made during the current reporting period in
Nacion Argentina bank, and £2 million with Banco de la Republica in
assessing the loss allowance for financial assets at amortised cost
Uruguay. Of the £381 million of bank balances and deposits held
since the adoption of IFRS 9 at the start of the current reporting
with BBB/Baa rated counterparties, £22 million was held with BBB-/
period.
Baa3 rated counterparties, including balances or deposits of £20
Treasury-related credit risk million with HDFC Bank in India and £1 million with State Bank of
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking India. These banks are used for local investment purposes.
and investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings
GSK measures expected credit losses over cash and cash
from Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these limits is
equivalents as a function of individual counterparty credit ratings
monitored daily.
and associated 12 month default rates. Expected credit losses over
cash and cash equivalents and third-party financial derivatives are
deemed to be immaterial and no such loss has been experienced
during 2018.
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 662 1,275 381 20 2,338
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 449 – – – – 449
Liquidity funds 1,572 – – – – 1,572
Government securities – 83 – 1 – 84
3rd party financial derivatives – 19 127 4 – 150
Total 2,021 764 1,402 386 20 4,593
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 423 1,167 80 45 1,715
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 1,715 – – – – 1,715
Liquidity funds 403 – – – – 403
Government securities – 77 – 1 – 78
3rd party financial derivatives – 26 42 – – 68
Total 2,118 526 1,209 81 45 3,979
Credit ratings are assigned by Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinions of the two rating agencies differ, GSK
assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source available, the ratings are
converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s using published conversion tables. These credit ratings
form the basis of the assessment of the expected credit loss on Treasury related balances held at amortised cost being bank balances and
deposits and Government securities.200
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £2.9 billion Credit enhancements
at 31 December 2018, all available within three months. This The Group uses credit enhancements including factoring and
includes £1.7 billion of cash managed by the Group for ViiV credit insurance to minimise credit risk of the trade receivables in
Healthcare, a 78.3% owned subsidiary. The Group has invested the Group. During 2018, a new Global Insurance Programme was
centrally managed liquid assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA rated launched in order to consolidate all locally negotiated programmes
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds and Aaa/ and to expand the use of credit insurance to new markets. At
AAA rated liquidity funds. 31 December 2018, £240 million of GSK trade receivables were
insured protecting GSK’s account receivables balance from loss
Wholesale and retail credit risk
due to credit risks such as default, insolvency and bankruptcy.
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the
Group’s trade receivables balance. Each Group entity assesses the credit risk of its private customers
to determine if credit insurance is required.
In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition Factoring arrangements are managed locally by entities and are
to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the used to mitigate risk arising from large credit risk concentrations.
three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 82% of the All factoring arrangements are non-recourse.
sales of the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses in 2018.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
At 31 December 2018, the Group had trade receivables due from
these three wholesalers totalling £2,134 million (2017 – £1,265 The table on pages 201 and 202 presents the carrying amounts
million). The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in and the fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at
respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
encounters financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at
affect the Group’s financial results.
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial information the measurement date.
and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review of credit limits.
the fair values:
All new customers are subject to a credit vetting process and
– Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying amount
existing customers will be subject to a review at least annually.
The vetting process and subsequent reviews involves obtaining – Liquid investments – approximates to the carrying amount
information including the customer’s status as a government or
– Other investments – equity investments traded in an active market
private sector entity, audited financial statements, credit bureau
determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted
reports, debt rating agency (e.g. Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s)
bid price; other equity investments determined by reference to the
reports, payment performance history (from trade references,
current market value of similar instruments or by reference to the
industry credit groups) and bank references.
discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread
– Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
across diverse industries and geographical areas. Ongoing credit
approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity
evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts
of these instruments
receivable and, where appropriate, credit insurance is purchased
or factoring arrangements put in place. – Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices (a level 1 fair
value measurement) in the case of European and US Medium
The amount of information obtained is proportional to the level of
Term Notes; approximates to the carrying amount in the case
exposure being considered. The information is evaluated quantitatively
of other fixed rate borrowings and floating rate bank loans
(i.e., credit score) and qualitatively (i.e. judgement) in conjunction with
the customer’s credit requirements to determine a credit limit. – Contingent consideration for business acquisitions – based on
present values of expected future cash flows
Trade receivables are grouped into customer segments that have
similar loss patterns to assess credit risk while other receivables – Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, swaps
other financial assets are assessed individually. Historical and and options – based on the present value of contractual cash
forward-looking information is considered to determine the flows or option valuation models using market sourced data
appropriate expected credit loss allowance. The Group believes (exchange rates or interest rates) at the balance sheet date
there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the
– Receivables and payables, including put options – approximates
allowance for expected credit losses (see Note 24, ‘Trade and
to the carrying amount
other receivables’).
– Company-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
surrender value, and
– Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.201
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2018
Carrying Fair
value value
Notes £m £m
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI a 1,250 1,250
Trade and other receivables a,b 1,687 1,687
Financial assets measured at amortised cost:
Other non-current assets b 49 49
Trade and other receivables b 3,761 3,761
Liquid investments 84 84
Cash and cash equivalents 2,338 2,338
Other items in Assets held for sale b 47 47
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments a 72 72
Other non-current assets a,b 716 716
Trade and other receiveables a,b 120 120
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments a,d,e 69 69
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e 188 188
Cash and cash equivalents a 2,021 2,021
Total financial assets 12,402 12,402
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (8,213) (8,279)
– other bonds (13,307) (15,475)
– bank loans and overdrafts (290) (290)
– commercial paper (630) (630)
– other borrowings (3,556) (3,556)
Total borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases f (25,996) (28,230)
Obligations under finance leases (68) (68)
Total borrowings (26,064) (28,298)
Trade and other payables c (13,338) (13,338)
Other provisions c (58) (58)
Other non-current liabilities c (149) (149)
Other items in Assets held for sale c (167) (167)
Financial liabilities mandatorily at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities a,c (6,286) (6,286)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments a,d,e (105) (105)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and
effective hedging relationship a,d,e (23) (23)
Total financial liabilities (46,190) (48,424)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (33,788) (36,022)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table and the table on page 202 is described and categorised on
page 200.
Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities,
Contingent consideration liabilities and Other items in Assets held for sale are reconciled to the relevant Notes on pages 204 and 205.
Cash and cash equivalents in the table above include £485 million reported in Assets held for sale (see Note 26, ‘Assets held for sale’).202
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2017
Carrying Fair
value value
Notes £m £m
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments (Government bonds) a 78 78
Other investments a 918 918
Loans and receivables:
Cash and cash equivalents 3,833 3,833
Trade and other receivables and Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 b 5,495 5,495
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Trade and other receivables and Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 a,b 506 506
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e 5 5
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e 71 71
Total financial assets 10,906 10,906
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (4,315) (4,405)
– other bonds (11,894) (14,743)
– bank loans and overdrafts (236) (236)
– commercial paper (529) (529)
– other borrowings (49) (49)
Total borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases f (17,023) (19,962)
Obligations under finance leases (66) (66)
Total borrowings (17,089) (20,028)
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 c (20,325) (20,325)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Contingent consideration liabilities a,c (6,172) (6,172)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a,d,e (26) (26)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a,d,e (48) (48)
Total financial liabilities (43,660) (46,599)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (32,754) (35,693)
Fair value of investments in GSK shares
At 31 December 2018, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £161 million
(2017 – £400 million) and a market value of £619 million (2017 – £882 million) based on quoted market price. The shares are held by the
ESOP Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee incentive schemes. In 2018, the carrying value, which is the
lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a deduction from other reserves. At 31 December 2018,
GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £5,800 million (2017 – £5,800 million) which has been deducted from retained earnings.203
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available, the asset
or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable market data. If one or
more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified as Level 3. Other
investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities with which the Group has entered into
research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI):
Other investments designated at FVTOCI 656 – 594 1,250
Trade and other receivables – 1,687 – 1,687
Financial assets mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Other investments – – 72 72
Other non-current assets – 675 41 716
Trade and other receivables – 79 41 120
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments – 69 – 69
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – 182 6 188
Cash and cash equivalents 2,021 – – 2,021
2,677 2,692 754 6,123
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities mandatorily at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL):
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (6,286) (6,286)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments – (105) – (105)
Held for trading derivatives that are not in a designated and effective hedging relationship – (23) – (23)
– (128) (6,286) (6,414)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available-for-sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 77 1 – 78
Other investments 535 – 383 918
Other non-current assets – – 38 38
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 382 44 426
Trade and other receivables – – 42 42
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 5 – 5
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 62 9 71
612 450 516 1,578
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (6,172) (6,172)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (26) – (26)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (47) (1) (48)
– (73) (6,173) (6,246)204
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2018 2017
£m £m
At 1 January (5,657) (5,486)
Net losses recognised in the income statement (1,233) (970)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 123 22
Contingent consideration for businesses divested/acquired during the year – 80
Payment of contingent consideration liabilities 1,095 685
Additions 381 117
Disposals and settlements (27) (52)
Transfers from Level 3 (241) (24)
Exchange adjustments 27 (29)
At 31 December (5,532) (5,657)
The net losses of £1,233 million (2017 – £970 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in the income
statement were all attributable to financial instruments which were held at the end of the year. Losses of £1,233 million were reported in
Other operating income (2017 – £971 million losses in Other operating income and £1 million income in Finance income). £1,188 million
(2017 – £909 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV
Healthcare joint venture and £56 million (2017 – £53 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the
acquisition of the Novartis Vaccines business. Net gains of £123 million (2017 – £22 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments
reported in Other comprehensive income as Fair value movements on equity investments included net gains of £117 million (2017 – net
losses of £6 million) in respect of financial instruments held at the end of the year, of which net gains of £98 million (2017 – net losses of
£6 million) arose prior to transfer from Level 3 on equity investments which transferred to a Level 1 valuation methodology as a result
of listing on a recognised stock exchange during the year.
Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December included £5,937 million (2017 – £5,542 million) in respect
of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is
expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products and movements in certain
foreign currencies. They also included £296 million (2017 – £584 million) in respect of contingent consideration for the acquisition in 2015
of the Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future
performance of specified products, the achievement of certain milestone targets and movements in certain foreign currencies. Sensitivity
analysis on these balances is provided in Note 39, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
(b) Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets and other items in Assets held for sale in scope of
IFRS 9 (2017 – IAS 39)
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables, Other non-current assets and other items in Assets
held for sale which fall within the scope of IFRS 9 (2017 - IAS 39) to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are
predominantly non-interest earning. Financial instruments within the Other non-current assets balance include company-owned life insurance
policies. Non-financial instruments include tax receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of
IFRS 9 (2017 – IAS 39).
2018 2017
Non- Non-
Amortised Financial financial Loans and Financial financial
At FVTPL At FVTOCI cost instruments instruments Total At FVTPL receivables instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 24) 120 1,687 3,761 5,568 855 6,423 42 5,148 5,190 810 6,000
Other non-current assets
(Note 22) 716 – 49 765 811 1,576 464 347 811 602 1,413
Other items in Assets held
for sale (Note 26) – – 47 47 37 84 – – – – –
836 1,687 3,857 6,380 1,703 8,083 506 5,495 6,001 1,412 7,413
The Group applied IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ with effect from 1 January 2018 and therefore now accounts for expected credit losses on
initial recognition of financial assets. The following table shows the ageing of financial assets which were past due at 31 December 2017 and
for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts had been made at that date under IAS 39:
2017
£m
Past due by 1–30 days 142
Past due by 31–90 days 70
Past due by 91–180 days 64
Past due by 181–365 days 27
Past due by more than 365 days 108
411205
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities, Contingent consideration liabilities
and other items in Assets held for sale in scope of IFRS 9 (2017 - IAS 39)
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities,
Contingent consideration liabilities and other items in Assets held for sale which fall within the scope of IFRS 9/IAS 39 to the relevant
balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are predominantly non-interest bearing. Accrued wages and salaries are included within
financial liabilities. Non-financial instruments includes payments on account, tax and social security payables and provisions which do not
arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or another financial asset, which are outside the scope of IFRS 9/IAS 39.
2018 2017
Non- Non-
Amortised Financial financial Amortised Financial financial
At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total At FVTPL cost instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 27) – (13,338) (13,338) (699) (14,037) – (20,129) (20,129) (841) (20,970)
Other provisions
(Note 29) – (58) (58) (1,365) (1,423) – (117) (117) (1,148) (1,265)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 30) – (149) (149) (789) (938) – (79) (79) (902) (981)
Contingent consideration
liabilities (Note 39) (6,286) – (6,286) – (6,286) (6,172) – (6,172) – (6,172)
Other items in Assets held
for sale (Note 26) – (167) (167) (53) (220) – – – – –
(6,286) (13,712) (19,998) (2,906) (22,904) (6,172) (20,325) (26,497) (2,891) (29,388)
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments and are classified as ‘held for trading’, other
than designated and effective hedging instruments, and are presented as current assets or liabilities if they are expected to be settled within
12 months after the end of the reporting period, otherwise they are classified as non-current. The Group has the following derivative financial
instruments:
2018 2017
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Non-current
Cash flow hedges – Interest rate swap contracts
(principal amount – £1,266 million (2017 – £nil)) – (1) – –
Net investment hedges – Cross currency swaps
(principal amount – £1,575 million (2017 – £nil)) 64 – – –
Current
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £1,809 million (2017 – £38 million)) 1 (56) – (1)
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £7,316 million (2017 – £6,333 million)) 4 (48) 5 (25)
Derivatives designated and effective as hedging instruments 69 (105) 5 (26)
Non-current
Embedded and other derivatives 4 – 8 –
Current
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £18,537 million (2017 – £14,449 million)) 82 (23) 62 (47)
Embedded and other derivatives 102 – 1 (1)
Derivatives classified as held for trading 188 (23) 71 (48)
Total derivative instruments 257 (128) 76 (74)
Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2018, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.
Net investment hedges
During the year, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency translation
risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro) foreign operations as shown in the table above.
The carrying value of bonds on page 201 includes £8,213 million (2017 – £4,315 million) that are designated as hedging instruments in net
investment hedges.206
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Cash flow hedges
During 2018, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as cash flow hedges. These were
entered into to hedge the foreign exchange exposure arising on cash flows from Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued
under the Group’s European Medium Term Note programme, on the buyout of Novartis’ non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare
Joint Venture in 2018 and on the planned divestment of Horlicks and other nutrition brands in 2019.
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps. In addition, the Group carries a balance
in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds issued in prior years. The balance is
reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
Foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps
In the current year, the Group has designated certain foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps as cash flow and net investment
hedges. The following tables detail the foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps outstanding at the end of the reporting period,
as well as information on the related hedged items. Foreign exchange derivative financial assets and liabilities are presented in the line
‘Derivative financial instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities) on the Consolidated balance sheet. The notional value of foreign exchange
forward contracts and swaps is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance sheet date.
Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness assessments
to ensure that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The Group enters into hedge relationships
where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match exactly with the terms of the hedged item, and so a qualitative assessment of
effectiveness is performed. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that the critical terms no longer match
exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the hypothetical derivative method to assess effectiveness.
The main source of hedge ineffectiveness in these hedging relationships is the effect of the counterparty and the Group’s own credit risk
on the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps, which is not reflected in the fair value of the hedged item attributable
to changes in foreign exchange rates. No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships. Consequently, there
was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from cash flow hedges and net investments in foreign entity hedges.
2018
Average Foreign Notional Fair
exchange rate currency value value
Hedging instruments £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Buy foreign currency:
Less than 3 months – – – –
3 to 6 months 1.13 Euro 26 1
Over 6 months – – – –
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months – – – –
3 to 6 months – – – –
Over 6 months 96.40 Indian Rupee 1,783 (56)
1,809 (55)
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts
Sell foreign currency:
Less than 3 months 1.11 Euro 6,933 (40)
3 to 6 months – – – –
Over 6 months 1.11 Euro 383 (4)
7,316 (44)
2018
Balance in cash flow hedge
reserve/foreign currency
Change in value for calculating translation reserve for
hedge ineffectiveness continuing hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction 56 (49)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued (1) 1
Net investment hedges
Investment in European foreign operations 50 286
There are no balances in the cash flow hedge reserve arising from hedging relationships for which hedge accounting is no longer applied.207
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to
profit or loss:
2018
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss is included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows from a highly probable forecast transaction 127 – Other – (176) Other
operating operating
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Variability in cash flows from foreign exchange exposure arising on 1 – Finance – – Finance
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to debt issued income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Net investment hedges
Net investment in European foreign operations 286 7 Finance – – Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Interest rate swap contracts
The Group manages its cash flow interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, where at quarterly intervals the difference
between fixed contract rates and floating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional principal amounts are exchanged.
The interest rate swap contracts, exchanging floating rate interest for fixed interest, have been designated as cash flow hedges to hedge the
variability of the interest cash flows associated with floating rate debt relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note
programme. The interest rate swaps and the interest payments on the loan occur simultaneously and the amount accumulated in equity is
reclassified to profit or loss over the period that the floating rate interest payments affect profit or loss.
The critical terms of the interest rate swap contracts and their corresponding hedged items are the same. A qualitative assessment of
effectiveness is performed and it is expected that the value of the interest rate swap contracts and the value of the corresponding hedged
items will systematically change in opposite directions in response to movements in the underlying interest rates. The main sources of
ineffectiveness in these hedge relationships are the effects of currency basis risk and the counterparty’s and the Group’s own credit risk on
the fair value of the interest rate swap contracts, which are not reflected in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the change in
interest rates. No other sources of ineffectiveness emerged from these hedging relationships.
The following tables provide information regarding interest rate swap contracts outstanding and the related hedged items at 31 December
2018. Interest rate swap contract assets and liabilities are presented in the line ‘Derivative financial instruments’ (either as assets or liabilities)
on the Consolidated balance sheet.
2018
Change in
fair value for
Average Notional recognising Fair value
contracted fixed principal hedge assets/
rate value ineffectiveness (liabilities)
Hedging instruments % £m £m £m
Less than 1 year – – – –
1 to 2 years 0.11 676 – (1)
2 to 5 years 0.16 591 – 23
Over 5 years – – – –
2018
Change in value Balance in cash
used for flow hedge
calculating reserve for
hedge continuing
ineffectiveness hedges
Hedged items £m £m
Variable rate borrowings 3 (3)208
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table details the effectiveness of the hedging relationships and the amounts reclassified from the hedging reserve to profit or loss:
2018
Amount reclassified to profit or loss
Line item Hedged
Amount in profit or future cash Line item
Hedging of hedge loss in flows in which
gains/(losses) ineffectiveness which hedge no longer As hedged reclassification
recognised in recognised in ineffectiveness expected to item affects adjustment is
reserves profit or loss is included occur profit or loss included
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges
Variability in cash flows (3) – Finance – (2) Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
Pre-hedging of long-term interest rates 15 – Finance – 3 Finance
income/ income/
(expense) (expense)
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable right to offset
the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. There are
also arrangements that do not meet the criteria for offsetting but still allow for the related amounts to be offset in certain circumstances, such
as bankruptcy or the termination of a contract.
The following tables set out the financial assets and liabilities that are offset, or subject to enforceable master netting arrangements and other
similar agreements but not offset, as at 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017. The column ‘Net amount’ shows the impact on the
Group’s balance sheet if all offset rights were exercised.
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset amount
At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 5,568 – 5,568 (37) 5,531
Derivative financial instruments 257 – 257 (62) 195
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (13,338) – (13,338) 37 (13,301)
Derivative financial instruments (128) – (128) 62 (66)
Gross Financial
financial (liabilities)/ Net financial Related
assets/ assets assets/ amounts not Net
(liabilities) offset (liabilities) offset balance
At 31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 5,191 (1) 5,190 (31) 5,159
Derivative financial instruments 76 – 76 (64) 12
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (20,130) 1 (20,129) 31 (20,098)
Derivative financial instruments (74) – (74) 64 (10)
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate
to derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each party has the option to settle
amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. As there is presently not a legally enforceable right of offset, these amounts
have not been offset in the balance sheet, but have been presented separately in the table above.209
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis of fixed rate
debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as
all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2018 2017
Total
debt Total
£m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (5,769) (2,802)
Between one and two years (1,757) (1,340)
Between two and three years (1,570) (1,076)
Between three and four years (1,568) (16)
Between four and five years (2,010) (1,475)
Between five and ten years (5,833) (3,664)
Greater than ten years (7,489) (6,650)
Total (25,996) (17,023)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (20,322) (16,209)
Floating rate interest (5,635) (765)
Total interest bearing (25,957) (16,974)
Non-interest bearing (39) (49)
(25,996) (17,023)
(g) Sensitivity analysis
The tables below illustrate the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of hypothetical market movements in foreign
exchange and interest rates in relation to the Group’s financial instruments. The range of variables chosen for the sensitivity analysis reflects
management’s view of changes which are reasonably possible over a one-year period.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
The Group operates internationally and is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in US Dollar,
Euro and Japanese Yen. Foreign exchange risk arises from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not in the functional
currency of the entity that holds them. Based on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December, a weakening and
strengthening of Sterling against these currencies, with all other variables held constant, is illustrated in the tables below. The tables exclude
financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign exchange risk where this risk is fully hedged with another financial instrument.
2018 2017
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 36 76
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (7) (5)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen 15 9
2018 2017
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar (30) (66)
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 6 4
10 yen depreciation of the Yen (13) (8)210
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments hedging
the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange exposure arising on
Euro denominated coupon payments relating to notes issued under the Group’s European Medium Term Note programme.
2018 2017
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar – 1
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (1,307) (1,028)
2018 2017
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar – (1)
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 1,091 861
The tables below present the Group’s sensitivity to a weakening and strengthening of Sterling against the relevant currency based on the
composition of net debt as shown in Note 31 adjusted for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net debt but affect
future foreign currency cash flows.
2018 2017
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (714) (637)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (60) 197
10 yen appreciation of the Yen 15 (4)
2018 2017
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent depreciation of the US Dollar 610 549
10 cent depreciation of the Euro 50 (165)
10 yen depreciation of the Yen (13) 4
Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will affect future
cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the Group’s net
interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.
The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US Dollar and Euro floating
rate financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate financial assets and liabilities were to have increased by 1%
(100 basis points), and assuming other variables had remained constant, it is estimated that the Group’s finance income for 2018 would have
decreased by approximately £13 million (2017 – £5 million increase). A 1% (100 basis points) movement in interest rates is not deemed to
have a material effect on equity.
2018 2017
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates (2) 24
1% (100 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates 1 (24)
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates (12) 5211
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provide an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative
financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings except for obligations
under finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31 December without taking account of future issuance. Floating rate
interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot
rates at 31 December. Contractual cash flows in respect of operating lease vacant space provisions are excluded from the table below as
they are included in the Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases table in Note 41, ‘Commitments’.
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt on debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (5,771) (714) (24) (5) (14,278) (20,792)
Between one and two years (1,775) (708) (18) (2) (1,107) (3,610)
Between two and three years (1,592) (675) (11) (2) (902) (3,182)
Between three and four years (1,592) (620) (6) (1) (851) (3,070)
Between four and five years (1,970) (567) (3) (1) (826) (3,367)
Between five and ten years (5,875) (2,370) (6) (5) (3,748) (12,004)
Greater than ten years (7,579) (3,764) – – (1,468) (12,811)
Gross contractual cash flows (26,154) (9,418) (68) (16) (23,180) (58,836)
Finance charge Trade payables
Obligations on obligations and other
Interest under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt on debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (2,802) (555) (23) (2) (21,521) (24,903)
Between one and two years (1,344) (497) (27) (2) (853) (2,723)
Between two and three years (1,078) (488) (8) (1) (813) (2,388)
Between three and four years (16) (488) (2) (1) (784) (1,291)
Between four and five years (1,483) (468) (1) (1) (752) (2,705)
Between five and ten years (3,694) (2,018) (5) (5) (3,609) (9,331)
Greater than ten years (6,720) (3,996) – – (1,471) (12,187)
Gross contractual cash flows (17,137) (8,510) (66) (12) (29,803) (55,528)
Anticipated contractual cash flows for the repayment of debt and debt interest have increased by £9.9 billion over the year due to funding
of the buyout of Novartis’ 36.5% stake in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, an increase in the issuance of commercial paper and
unfavourable exchange impacts from the translation of non-Sterling denominated debt.
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments excluding equity options
which do not give rise to cash flows, and other embedded derivatives, which are not material, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in
foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign exchange contracts are presented for the
purpose of this table although, in practice, the Group uses standard settlement arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these
instruments.
2018 2017
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
Foreign Foreign Foreign Foreign
exchange exchange exchange exchange
forward forward forward forward
Interest contracts Interest contracts Interest contracts Interest contracts
rate swaps and swaps rate swaps and swaps rate swaps and swaps rate swaps and swaps
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year 49 26,680 (3) (26,802) – 20,319 – (20,326)
Between one and two years 48 1,575 (3) (1,513) – – – –
Between two and three years 24 – (2) – – – – –
Gross contractual cash flows 121 28,255 (8) (28,315) – 20,319 – (20,326)
The amounts receivable and payable in less than one year have increased compared with 31 December 2017 predominantly from hedging of the
buyout of Novartis’ 36.5% stake in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture and the divestment of Horlicks and other nutrition brands to Unilever.212
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Employee share schemes
GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares
or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan, whereby awards are granted to
employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by the Group of specified performance
targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options to employees as the cost of the schemes more
readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also operates savings related share option schemes, whereby
options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc at a discounted price.
Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three-year vesting or performance period. Awards are normally
granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc but in some circumstances may be settled in cash. Grants under
savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In accordance with UK practice, the majority of
options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling at the date of grant.
Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.
The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2018 was £393 million (2017 – £347 million; 2016 – £338 million). Of this amount,
£304 million (2017 – £276 million; 2016 – £271 million) arose from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’ for further details.
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to three years
and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of
grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 4.8% (2017 – 4.8%; 2016 – 4.5%) over the duration of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2016 32,577 17,520
Awards granted 12,983 £14.97 6,589 $39.18
Awards exercised (11,198) (6,214)
Awards cancelled (1,507) (812)
At 31 December 2016 32,855 17,083
Awards granted 13,018 £13.68 6,610 $35.63
Awards exercised (10,596) (5,674)
Awards cancelled (1,352) (627)
At 31 December 2017 33,925 17,392
Awards granted 12,751 £13.74 6,503 $35.28
Awards exercised (11,089) (5,583)
Awards cancelled (1,519) (925)
At 31 December 2018 34,068 17,387
Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of each award
that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested during the same period.
For awards granted from 2015, the performance conditions are based on three equally weighted measures over a three-year performance
period. These are adjusted free cash flow, TSR and R&D new product performance.
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements, this is
adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
During 2018, awards were made of 4.7 million shares at a weighted fair value of £10.46 and 1.3 million ADS at a weighted fair value of
$29.43. At 31 December 2018, there were outstanding awards over 13.1 million shares and 3.4 million ADS.213
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
43. Employee share schemes continued
Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing savings-related options to arrive at the share-based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing model has
been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
2018 Grant 2017 Grant 2016 Grant
Risk-free interest rate 0.76% 0.54% 0.32%
Dividend yield 5.3% 5.9% 4.9%
Volatility 21% 23% 23%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount) £12.09 £10.86 £12.95
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2018 1,796 £11.96 1,216 $36.19 5,929 £11.70
Range of exercise prices on options outstanding at year end £11.60 – £12.21 $33.42 – $38.14 £10.13 – £12.95
Weighted average market price on exercise during year £14.43 $39.77 £15.13
Weighted average remaining contractual life 0.9 years 0.9 years 2.6 years
Options over 2.9 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted average fair value
of £2.40. At 31 December 2018, 5.5 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable. All of the other share options and ADS
options are currently exercisable and all will expire if not exercised on or before 22 July 2020.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards
made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts purchase
shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. The costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income
statement. Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and amortised down to the value of proceeds, if any, receivable
from employees on exercise by a transfer to retained earnings. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the
ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2018 2017
Number of shares (000) 41,391 66,558
£m £m
Nominal value 10 17
Carrying value 160 399
Market value 617 880
Shares held for share option schemes 2018 2017
Number of shares (000) 139 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 2 2214
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
44. Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2018. The equity share
capital of these entities is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are
incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
England US
Glaxo Group Limited Block Drug Company, Inc.
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Corixa Corporation
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. (88%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited GlaxoSmithKline LLC
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited * GSK Consumer Health, Inc. (formerly Novartis Consumer Health, Inc.)
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited S.R. One, Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited * Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited ViiV Healthcare Company (78.3%)
Setfirst Limited
SmithKline Beecham Limited
ViiV Healthcare Limited (78.3%)
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited (78.3%)
Europe Others
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. (Argentina)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd (Australia)
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. (France) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty Ltd (Australia)
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS (France) GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil)
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline (France) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. (Canada)
ViiV Healthcare SAS (France) (78.3%) GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada)
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) GlaxoSmithKline Limited (China (Hong Kong))
GSK Vaccines GmbH (Germany) GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd (China) (90%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. (Italy) Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd (China) (55%)
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (India) (72.5%)
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. (Italy) GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India) (75%)
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. (Netherlands) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. (Japan)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. (Poland) GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan)
GSK Services Sp z o.o. (Poland) ViiV Healthcare Kabushiki Kaisha (Japan) (78.3%)
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of Ireland) (i) GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan) (82.6%)
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO (Russia) Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd. (Singapore)
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain) GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (Republic of Korea)
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. (Spain) (78.3%) GlaxoSmithKline llaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (Turkey)
GSK Consumer Healthcare S.A. (Switzerland)
(i) E xempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions noted
in Section 357 of that Act. Further subsidiaries, as disclosed on pages 260 to 270, are exempt from these provisions as they are also
consolidated in the group financial statements.
* Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of GlaxoSmithKline
Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and GlaxoSmithKline LLC, is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company, and the company
has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc and
GlaxoSmithKline LLC.
See pages 260 to 270 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these financial
statements.215
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
45. Legal proceedings
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative Dolutegravir/Tivicay/Triumeq
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, In September and October 2017, ViiV Healthcare received
tax, anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related patent challenge letters under the Hatch-Waxman Act from Cipla,
private litigation. The most significant of these matters, other than Dr. Reddy’s Labs and Apotex for Triumeq and Tivicay, and from
tax matters, are described below. The Group makes provision for Lupin and Mylan for Triumeq and from Sandoz for Tivicay. ViiV
these proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, Healthcare lists two patents for dolutegravir, the active ingredient
‘Accounting principles and policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. in Tivicay and one of the active ingredients in Triumeq, in the FDA
Orange Book. One patent, covering the molecule dolutegravir,
The Group may become involved in significant legal proceedings
expires on 5 October 2027. A second patent, claiming a certain
in respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of
crystal forms of dolutegravir, expires on 8 December 2029. All the
the expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate
letters challenged only the patent for the crystal form. Some generic
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate
companies alleged that the crystal form patent is not valid. Others
disclosures about such cases would be included in this note,
challenged validity and asserted that their proposed product would
but no provision would be made for the cases.
not infringe the crystal form patent.
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below,
On 7 February 2017, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement suits
other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group
against all the generic companies in the US District Court for the
is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect
District of Delaware. Additionally, ViiV Healthcare also filed suit
at this stage. The Group does not believe that information about the
against certain of the generic companies in the US District Court for
amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful
the District of New Jersey, and the US District Court for the District
with respect to those legal proceedings. This is due to a number of
of West Virginia. The case against Mylan is now proceeding in the
factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the
Northern District of West Virginia. The court has set the case against
entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories
Mylan for trial in June 2020. The cases against the other defendants
of liability, damages and governing law.
are proceeding in the District of Delaware. The District of Delaware
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are has not yet set a trial date for the cases.
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions
On 7 February 2018, ViiV Healthcare filed patent infringement
are made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice,
litigation against Gilead Sciences Inc. (Gilead) over bictegravir in
where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a
the US District Court for the District of Delaware (U.S. Patent No.
reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute.
8,129,385) and the Canadian Federal Court (Canadian patent No.
For certain product liability claims, the Group will make a provision
2,606,282). ViiV Healthcare alleges that Gilead’s triple combination
where there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements
HIV drug containing the HIV integrase inhibitor bictegravir infringes
to enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision
ViiV Healthcare’s patent covering dolutegravir and other compounds
required to cover unasserted claims. At 31 December 2018, the
that include dolutegravir’s unique chemical scaffold. In both the US
Group’s aggregate provision for legal and other disputes (not
and Canada, ViiV Healthcare seeks financial redress rather than
including tax matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was £219
injunctive relief. The District of Delaware case is set for trial in
million. However, this provision is offset by a related £37 million
September 2020. The Canadian court has not set a trial date for
receivable which means the net exposure to the Group is £182
the Canadian action.
million. The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation Kivexa
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. In 2018, ViiV Healthcare reached confidential agreements with
each of DOC Generici, Farmoz and Kyowa Pharmaceuticals to settle
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore, there
various challenges to the validity of the Supplementary Protection
can be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome
Certificate (‘SPC’) for the patent covering the combination of
of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the
lamivudine and abacavir for Kivexa and certain counterclaims
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial
brought by ViiV Healthcare for infringement of that SPC. These
statements. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse
settlements brought an end to litigation and arbitration proceedings
impact on the results of operations of the Group in the reporting
between ViiV Healthcare and DOC Generici in Italy, between ViiV
period in which the judgements are incurred or the settlements
Healthcare and Farmoz in Portugal, and between ViiV Healthcare
entered into.
and Kyowa Pharmaceuticals in Japan.
Intellectual property
In June 2017, Biogaran commenced proceedings in France seeking
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity and
revocation of the French SPC covering Kivexa. No trial date has
enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products or
been set for this action.
processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those
patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent In Q2 2018, ViiV Healthcare commenced proceedings against
protection for the product at issue. The consequences of any such Sandoz in Switzerland. Sandoz countered challenging the validity
loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that product and of the patent relating to Kivexa. No trial date has been set for
could materially affect future results of operations for the Group. this action.216
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Legal proceedings continued
Product liability – A cts of violence
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development As of February 2019, there were six pending claims or cases
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of concerning allegations that patients who took paroxetine or Paxil
products for use by humans following approval by regulatory bodies. committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts of violence: five
claims or cases are in the US and one case is in Canada. One of the
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines are
US cases, Dolin, involving the suicide of a man who allegedly took
introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues may
generic paroxetine manufactured by Mylan, resulted in a $3 million
become, or be claimed by some to be, evident. The Group is
verdict for the plaintiff; however, on 22 August 2018 the US Court
currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits related
of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit reversed the jury verdict and
to the Group’s Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
found in favour of the Group. Plaintiff has filed a petition for writ of
products. The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of
certiorari asking the US Supreme Court to review the case. The
the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this
remaining US cases are largely dormant.
category and has included a provision, as appropriate, for the
matters below in the provision for legal and other disputes. Matters In the one pending Canadian action, Carmichael, the Group has filed
for which the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, a motion for summary judgement based on the statute of limitations.
‘Other provisions.’
– D iscontinuation
Avandia In the UK, a long-pending group action alleges that Seroxat caused
The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf severe discontinuation symptoms. In 2010, the Legal Services
of individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use Commission (“LSC”) withdrew public funding from hundreds of
of Avandia. Economic loss actions have also been filed seeking claimants, causing termination of most claims. In 2015, the Legal Aid
restitution and penalties under consumer protection and other laws. Agency (formerly the LSC) discharged the public funding certificate
following a 2013 recommendation of its Special Cases Review
As of February 2019, there are seven remaining US cases. Four are
Panel that these cases have poor prospects of success.
personal injury actions subject to a settlement agreement and will
be dismissed once the settlement has been finalised. Two are class However, more recently, Fortitude Law was engaged with the
actions, brought by third-party payers asserting claims under the purpose of resurrecting the Seroxat group action, and obtained
Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) and third-party funding for the experts and the 103 remaining claimants.
state consumer protection laws, and are on appeal from summary The Group asked the court to require the third-party funder to
judgements granted in favour of the Group. In the last of the seven, provide security for the litigation costs in the event plaintiffs lose.
the Santa Clara County (California) Action, summary judgement
On 8 December 2017, the High Court ruled in favour of the Group
was granted in favour of the Group on all issues except for the
on its application for an order that the claimants’ litigation funder
civil penalty claims under California’s False Advertising Act.
give security for costs for a sum in excess of the total funding it had
Additionally, there are 13 class actions pending in Canada, but the committed to the case. The trial of the action is scheduled to
Group has reached an agreement, subject to court approval, to commence in April 2019.
settle all of them.
Zofran
Seroxat/Paxil and Paxil CR Plaintiffs allege that their children suffered birth defects as a result
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging that of the mothers’ ingestion of Zofran and/or generic ondansetron for
use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries. Most of pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting. Plaintiffs assert that the
these lawsuits contain one or more of the following allegations: (i) Group sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women, failed
that use of Paxil during pregnancy caused congenital malformations, to warn of the risks, and illegally marketed Zofran “off-label” for use
persistent pulmonary hypertension or autism; (ii) that Paxil treatment by pregnant women.
caused patients to commit suicidal or violent acts; and (iii) that the
As of February 2019, the Group is a defendant in 430 personal injury
Group failed to warn that patients could experience certain
lawsuits. All but two of the lawsuits are part of a multi-district
symptoms on discontinuing Paxil treatment.
litigation proceeding (“MDL”) in the US District Court for the District
– P regnancy of Massachusetts.
The Group has reached agreements to settle the majority of the
In the MDL, the parties are in the process of completing case-
US claims relating to the use of Paxil during pregnancy as of
specific discovery and selecting cases for potential trials. While the
February 2019, but 11 lawsuits related to use during pregnancy
court recently denied the Group’s motion for summary judgment
are still pending in various courts in the US.
based on a federal preemption argument, the Group continues to
The Singh action in Alberta, Canada, a proposed national class seek the dismissal of individual cases on other grounds as
action, seeks to certify a class relating to birth defects generally. appropriate.
The court, after hearing argument in January 2019, has plaintiffs’
GSK is also a defendant in four proposed class actions in Canada.
class certification motion under consideration.
There has been no significant activity in these four matters; however,
Another Canadian class action, Jensen, alleging claims of Paxil the parties have recently agreed to a schedule for class certification
(and other SSRI) use and autism was filed in Saskatchewan in proceedings in the matter pending in Ontario.
January 2017; however, there has been no activity in the case
since the filing.217
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
45. Legal proceedings continued
Sales and marketing and regulation Average wholesale price
The Group’s marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical The Attorney General in Illinois filed suit against the Group and a
and Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental number of other pharmaceutical companies claiming damages and
investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under various restitution due to average wholesale price (AWP) and/or wholesale
theories of law. The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate acquisition cost (WAC) price reporting for pharmaceutical products
of the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this covered by the state’s Medicaid programmes. The case alleges that
category and has included a provision for such matters in the the Group reported or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC
provision for legal and other disputes, except as noted below. prices, which, in turn, allegedly caused the state Medicaid agency
to reimburse providers more money for covered medicines than the
Matters for which the Group has made a provision are also noted
agency intended. The state has sought recovery on behalf of itself as
in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
payer and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers. The case is
SFO and SEC/DOJ Anti-corruption enquiries ongoing, and no trial date has yet been set as to the Group.
On 27 May 2014, the UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) began a
Cidra third-party payer litigation
formal criminal investigation into the Group’s commercial operations
On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers filed suit
in a number of countries, including China. The SFO inquiry followed
against the Group in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania County Court
investigations initiated by China’s Ministry of Public Security in June
of Common Pleas seeking compensation for reimbursements they
2013 (the ‘China Investigations’), which resulted in a ruling in 2014
made for medicines manufactured at the Group’s former Cidra plant
that, according to Chinese law, GSK China Investment Co. Ltd.
in Puerto Rico. These insurers claim that the Group knowingly and
(‘GSKCI’) had offered money or property to non-government
illegally marketed and sold adulterated drugs manufactured under
personnel in order to obtain improper commercial gains and
conditions non-compliant with cGMP (current good manufacturing
GSKCI being found guilty of bribing non-government personnel.
practices) and that they, as third-party insurers, were unlawfully
On 30 September 2016, the Group reached a global resolution with induced to pay for them. The suit alleges both US federal and various
the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regarding the state law causes of action. Discovery is complete, and the Group
SEC’s investigation under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act has filed a motion for summary judgement, which likely will be heard
(FCPA) into the Group’s commercial practices in countries outside in spring 2019. No trial date has yet been set.
of the US, including China. As part of the resolution, the Group
Anti-trust/competition
agreed to pay a civil penalty of $20 million to the US Government.
Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been
The US Department of Justice (DOJ) confirmed that it had
brought against the Group alleging violation of competition or
concluded its investigation into the Group’s commercial practices
anti-trust laws. The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate
and would take no action against the Group. As part of the resolution
of the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this
with the SEC, the Group agreed to certain undertakings, including
category and has included a provision for such matters in the
a period of self-monitoring and reporting. The Group’s obligations
provision for legal and other disputes, except as noted below.
under that resolution continued through 30 September 2018 and
Matters for which the Group has made a provision are also noted
have now concluded.
in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
In the course of its inquiry, the SFO had requested additional
UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation
information from the Group regarding third-party advisers engaged
On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets
by the company in the course of the China Investigations. The SEC
Authority (CMA) issued a decision fining the Group and two other
and DOJ are also investigating these matters following the Group’s
pharmaceutical companies for infringement of the Competition Act.
reporting of the SFO’s inquiries. The Group is co-operating and
The CMA imposed a fine of £37.6 million on the Group, as well as
responding to these requests. On 22 February 2019, the SFO
fines totaling £7.4 million against the other companies. This relates
announced that it would be closing its investigation and confirmed
to agreements to settle patent disputes between the Group and
that it would be taking no further action against the Group.
potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations, entered into
The SEC and DOJ investigations into these issues continue.
between 2001 and 2003. The Group terminated the agreements
The Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected at issue in 2004. The Group believes it has strong grounds for its
financial effect of these investigations, and no provisions have appeal of the CMA’s finding to the Competition Appeal Tribunal
been made for them. (CAT) in order to overturn the fine or substantially reduce it.
US Vaccines subpoena The appeal concluded in April 2017. The CAT delivered its initial
On 25 February 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US judgement on the appeal on 8 March 2018, referring all the principle
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting points at issue to the Court of Justice of the EU for a preliminary
documents relating to the Group’s Vaccines business. The Group ruling. The matter will then return to the CAT for final judgement.
responded to the subpoena and was informed by the government No provision has been made for this matter.
in 2018 that the government would be closing the matter without
further action.218
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the financial statements continued
45. Legal proceedings continued
Lamictal In addition to the SEC case, one private matter (the “Martinolich”
Purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers filed suit in case) remains. It is also pending in federal district court in Florida but
the US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that has been stayed pending the trial of the SEC matter. The allegations
the Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay in the Martinolich case largely track those in the SEC matter: the
generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the plaintiff, a former Stiefel employee, alleges that Stiefel and its officers
purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive reverse and directors violated the US Employee Retirement Income Security
payment settlement to resolve patent infringement litigation. A Act (ERISA) and federal and state securities laws by inducing Stiefel
separate count accuses the Group of monopolising the market. employees to sell their shares in the employee stock plan back to
Stiefel at a greatly undervalued price and without disclosing to
On 26 June 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial court’s
employees that Stiefel was about to be sold to the Group.
decision to dismiss the case and remanded the action back to
the trial court. On 18 May 2016, the trial court denied the indirect Environmental matters
purchaser class plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration of the Court’s The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating
dismissal of their claims. As a result, the indirect purchaser class to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain
representatives agreed to a settlement to exit the case and resolve sites, primarily in the US. Some of these matters are the subject of
their remaining claims. On 13 December 2018, the trial judge litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state
granted plaintiffs’ class certification motion, certifying a class of governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort
direct purchasers in this action. The Group is pursuing an appeal actions brought by private parties.
with the Court of Appeals regarding the class certification.
The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
Commercial and corporate approximately 16 sites, of which nine appear on the National Priority
The Group is a defendant in certain cases which allege violation List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
of US federal securities and ERISA laws. The Group has been able Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). These proceedings
to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect of the seek to require the operators of hazardous waste facilities,
matters discussed in this category and has included a provision for transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous
such matters in the provision for legal and other disputes. Matters waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse
for which the Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, the US Government for cleanup costs. In most instances, the
‘Other provisions”. Group is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste.
Securities/ERISA class actions – Stiefel Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and
On 12 December 2011, the US Securities and Exchange severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are frequently
Commission (SEC) filed a formal complaint against Stiefel resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed
Laboratories, Inc., and Charles Stiefel in the US District Court for of by the generator at the site. The Group’s proportionate liability for
the District of Florida alleging that Stiefel and its principals violated cleanup costs has been substantially determined for 18 of the sites
federal securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their referred to above.
shares in the employee stock plan back to the company at a greatly
The Group’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. The cost
undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that the
of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over time,
company was about to be sold to the Group. The case was stayed
be significant. The Group has made a provision for these matters, as
while several private actions brought by former Stiefel employees
noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
proceeded through the courts but was returned to active status in
early summer 2015. It is unclear when the case ultimately will be
scheduled for trial.
46. Post balance sheet events
The agreement to acquire Tesaro, Inc. for $5.1 billion in cash, which On 31 January 2019, Mylan N.V. announced that the US Food and
was signed in December 2018, completed on 22 January 2019. Drug Administration had approved their therapeutically equivalent
generic of Advair Diskus for certain patients with asthma or chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.219
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Company balance sheet – Financial statements
Investor information
UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) as at 31 December 2018
2018 2018 2017 2017
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets – investments F 19,987 20,275
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables G 8,394 8,715
Cash at bank 12 15
Total current assets 8,406 8,730
Bank overdrafts (12) (15)
Short term borrowings H (3,500) –
Trade and other payables I (610) (837)
Total current liabilities (4,122) (852)
Net current assets 4,284 7,878
Total assets less current liabilities 24,271 28,153
Provisions for liabilities J (16) (27)
Other non-current liabilities K (282) (238)
Net assets 23,973 27,888
Capital and reserves
Share capital L 1,345 1,343
Share premium account L 3,091 3,019
Other reserves 1,420 1,420
Retained earnings:
At 1 January 22,106 15,538
(Loss)/profit for the year (62) 9,893
Other changes in retained earnings (3,927) (3,325)
M 18,117 22,106
Equity shareholders’ funds 23,973 27,888
The financial statements on pages 219 to 222 were approved by the Board on 11 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Hampton
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 3888792
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2018
Share Share premium Other Retained Total
capital account reserves earnings equity
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2017 1,342 2,954 1,420 15,538 21,254
Profit and Total comprehensive income attributable to shareholders – – – 9,893 9,893
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,906) (3,906)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 1 55 – – 56
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – 10 – 581 591
At 31 December 2017 1,343 3,019 1,420 22,106 27,888
Loss and Total comprehensive expense attributable to shareholders – – – (62) (62)
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,927) (3,927)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 2 72 – – 74
At 31 December 2018 1,345 3,091 1,420 18,117 23,973220
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
A) Presentation of the financial statements B) Accounting policies
Description of business Foreign currency transactions
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets and
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines sheet date.
and health-related consumer products.
Dividends paid and received
Preparation of financial statements Dividends paid and received are included in the financial statements
The financial statements, which are prepared using the historical in the period in which the related dividends are actually paid or
cost convention (as modified to include the revaluation of certain received.
financial instruments) and on a going concern basis, are prepared
Expenditure
in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced
Disclosure Framework’ and with UK accounting presentation and the Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
Companies Act 2006 as at 31 December 2018, with comparative when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
figures as at 31 December 2017. made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the estimated.
income statement of the company is not presented in this Annual
Report. Investments in subsidiary companies
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
The company is included in the Group financial statements of
provision for impairment and also adjusted for movements in
GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available.
contingent consideration.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, Impairment of investments
in accordance with FRS 101: The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
– Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based payment’
Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to
– IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments - Disclosures’ the income statement in the year concerned.
– Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ Share-based payments
– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over
comparative information requirements in respect of the company’s shares, represents additional capital contributions
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1 by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in
subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’
– Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D),
equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of
111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’
the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
– IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’
Taxation
– Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
in accounting estimates and errors’ tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and the balance sheet date.
further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party transactions Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
entered into between two or more members of temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
a Group. and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are
Accounting convention and standards
considered recoverable against future taxable profits.
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical
cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected
standards. to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are
expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax liabilities and assets
Accounting principles and policies
are not discounted.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make Financial guarantees
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and amortised
liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts could over the life of the guarantee.
differ from those estimates.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and
described in Note B. These policies have been consistently
applied, unless otherwise stated.221
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
C) Key accounting judgements and estimates The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
Legal and other disputes proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no
management makes a judgement that an outflow of resources is assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal
probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported
of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising from claims in the company’s financial statements by a material amount.
against the company. The estimated provisions take into account the
specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant external advice, D) O perating profit
are inherently judgemental and could change substantially over time
as each dispute progresses and new facts emerge. A fee of £12,000 (2017 – £12,053) relating to the audit of the
company has been charged in operating profit.
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts
E) Dividends
and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with
accounting requirements. At 31 December 2018, provisions for legal The directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend
and other disputes amounted to £16 million (2017 – £27 million). for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend for 2017. For further
details, see Note 16 to the Group financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
F) Fixed assets – investments
2018 2017
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
18,552 18,552
Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 1,139 1,139
Contribution relating to contingent consideration 296 584
19,987 20,275
G) Trade and other receivables
2018 2017
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 10 31
Other receivables – 1
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 7,889 8,299
7,899 8,331
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 495 384
8,394 8,715
H) Short-term borrowings
The £3.5 billion borrowing relates to a facility taken out in June 2018 as part of the financing of the buyout of the non-controlling interest in the
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture held by Novartis. The facility has a maturity date of 1 December 2019.
I) Trade and other payables
2018 2017
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other creditors 567 438
Contingent consideration payable 14 346
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 29 53
610 837
The company has guaranteed debt issued by its subsidiary companies from two of which it receives fees. In aggregate, the company has
outstanding guarantees over £22.2 billion of debt instruments (2017 – £16.7 billion). The amounts due from the subsidiary company in relation
to these guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade and other receivables’ (see Note G).222
GSK Annual Report 2018
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
J) Provisions for liabilities
2018 2017
£m £m
At 1 January 27 23
Exchange adjustments 2 (3)
Charge for the year 16 52
Utilised (29) (45)
At 31 December 16 27
The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
K) Other non-current liabilities
2018 2017
£m £m
Contingent consideration payable 282 238
282 238
The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The current year
liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’.
L) Share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary Shares of 25p each account
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2017 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2018 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2017 5,368,316,062 1,342 2,954
Issued under employee share schemes 4,237,758 1 55
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – – 10
At 31 December 2017 5,372,553,820 1,343 3,019
Issued under employee share schemes 6,513,804 2 72
At 31 December 2018 5,379,067,624 1,345 3,091
31 December 31 December
2018 2017
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 56,723 38,647
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,564,209 4,588,799
At 31 December 2018, of the issued share capital, 41,530,909 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 414,605,950 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,922,930,765 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of the
shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 43, ‘Employee share schemes’.
M) Retained earnings
The loss of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £62 million (2017 – £9,893 million profit), which after dividends of £3,927 million
(2017 – £3,906 million), gave a retained loss of £3,989 million (2017 – profit of £5,987 milion). After the effect of £nil Treasury shares
transferred to a subsidiary company (2017 – £581 million), retained earnings at 31 December 2018 stood at £18,117 million
(2017 – £22,106 million), of which £4,096 million was unrealised (2017 – £4,096 million).
N) Group companies
See pages 260 to 270 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, which forms part of these financial statements.222233
GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001188 SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Investor
information
In this section
Quarterly trend 224
Pharmaceuticals turnover 226
Vaccines turnover 228
Five year record 229
Product development pipeline 235
Products, competition and intellectual property 238
Principal risks and uncertainties 241
Share capital and share price 251
Dividends 253
Financial calendar 253
Annual General Meeting 2019 254
Tax information for shareholders 254
Shareholder services and contacts 256
US law and regulation 258
Group companies 260
Glossary of terms 271224
GSK Annual Report 2018
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2018.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2018 Q4 2018 Q3 2018 Q2 2018 Q1 2018
Reported Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,269 – 2 4,810 6 4 4,221 1 3 4,229 (3) 1 4,009 (4) 2
Vaccines 5,894 14 16 1,479 22 18 1,924 14 17 1,253 13 16 1,238 7 13
Consumer Healthcare 7,658 (1) 2 1,908 1 1 1,947 (1) 3 1,828 (1) 3 1,975 (3) 2
Total turnover 30,821 2 5 8,197 7 5 8,092 3 6 7,310 – 4 7,222 (2) 4
Cost of sales (10,241) (1) – (2,904) 14 13 (2,636) (1) – (2,310) (12) (10) (2,391) (5) (3)
Selling, general and administration (9,915) 3 5 (2,620) 3 1 (2,527) 9 12 (2,457) 3 8 (2,311) (6) (2)
Research and development (3,893) (13) (12) (1,076) (11) (14) (988) (6) (5) (925) (27) (25) (904) (6) (1)
Royalty income 299 (16) (17) 79 14 6 94 (12) (13) 73 (26) (23) 53 (35) (34)
Other operating income/(expense) (1,588) (122) (125) (912) (429)
Operating profit 5,483 34 43 1,554 >100 >100 1,910 2 7 779 >100 >100 1,240 (28) (15)
Net finance costs (717) (185) (223) (167) (142)
Profit on disposal of associates 3 – 3 – –
Share of after tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 31 5 15 2 9
Profit before taxation 4,800 36 46 1,374 >100 >100 1,705 – 5 614 >100 >100 1,107 (29) (15)
Taxation (754) (74) (193) (139) (348)
Tax rate % 15.7% 5.4% 11.3% 22.6% 31.4%
Profit after taxation for the period 4,046 87 100 1,300 >100 >100 1,512 8 14 475 >100 >100 759 (38) (24)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 85 94 34 210
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 1,215 1,418 441 549
Basic earnings per share (pence) 73.7p >100 >100 24.7p >100 >100 28.8p 16 23 9.0p >100 >100 11.2p (48) (33)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 72.9p 24.4p 28.5p 8.9p 11.1p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 30,821 2 5 8,197 7 5 8,092 3 6 7,310 – 4 7,222 (2) 4
Cost of sales (9,178) 5 6 (2,532) 12 12 (2,388) 4 5 (2,079) 5 7 (2,179) (2) –
Selling, general and administration (9,462) 1 4 (2,529) 5 3 (2,313) 1 4 (2,334) 2 6 (2,286) (3) 2
Research and development (3,735) (3) (2) (1,019) 3 (1) (961) 7 8 (868) (18) (15) (887) (3) 2
Royalty income 299 (16) (17) 79 14 6 94 (12) (13) 73 (26) (23) 53 (35) (34)
Operating profit 8,745 2 6 2,196 8 4 2,524 2 6 2,102 1 7 1,923 (3) 9
Net finance costs (698) (173) (221) (165) (139)
Share of after tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 31 5 15 2 9
Profit before taxation 8,078 2 6 2,028 6 2 2,318 1 5 1,939 2 8 1,793 (1) 11
Taxation (1,535) (355) (430) (388) (362)
Tax rate % 19.0% 17.5% 18.6% 20.0% 20.2%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,543 5 9 1,673 10 6 1,888 4 8 1,551 3 10 1,431 1 13
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 674 139 141 170 224
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,869 1,534 1,747 1,381 1,207
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 119.4p 7 12 31.2p 14 10 35.5p 10 14 28.1p 3 10 24.6p (2) 11
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 40.225
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Quarterly trend Quarterly trend continued
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2018.
Income statement – Total
12 months 2018 Q4 2018 Q3 2018 Q2 2018 Q1 2018
Reported Reported Reported Reported Reported
£m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 17,269 – 2 4,810 6 4 4,221 1 3 4,229 (3) 1 4,009 (4) 2
Vaccines 5,894 14 16 1,479 22 18 1,924 14 17 1,253 13 16 1,238 7 13
Consumer Healthcare 7,658 (1) 2 1,908 1 1 1,947 (1) 3 1,828 (1) 3 1,975 (3) 2
Total turnover 30,821 2 5 8,197 7 5 8,092 3 6 7,310 – 4 7,222 (2) 4
Cost of sales (10,241) (1) – (2,904) 14 13 (2,636) (1) – (2,310) (12) (10) (2,391) (5) (3)
Selling, general and administration (9,915) 3 5 (2,620) 3 1 (2,527) 9 12 (2,457) 3 8 (2,311) (6) (2)
Research and development (3,893) (13) (12) (1,076) (11) (14) (988) (6) (5) (925) (27) (25) (904) (6) (1)
Royalty income 299 (16) (17) 79 14 6 94 (12) (13) 73 (26) (23) 53 (35) (34)
Other operating income/(expense) (1,588) (122) (125) (912) (429)
Operating profit 5,483 34 43 1,554 >100 >100 1,910 2 7 779 >100 >100 1,240 (28) (15)
Net finance costs (717) (185) (223) (167) (142)
Profit on disposal of associates 3 – 3 – –
Share of after tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 31 5 15 2 9
Profit before taxation 4,800 36 46 1,374 >100 >100 1,705 – 5 614 >100 >100 1,107 (29) (15)
Taxation (754) (74) (193) (139) (348)
Tax rate % 15.7% 5.4% 11.3% 22.6% 31.4%
Profit after taxation for the period 4,046 87 100 1,300 >100 >100 1,512 8 14 475 >100 >100 759 (38) (24)
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 85 94 34 210
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 1,215 1,418 441 549
Basic earnings per share (pence) 73.7p >100 >100 24.7p >100 >100 28.8p 16 23 9.0p >100 >100 11.2p (48) (33)
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 72.9p 24.4p 28.5p 8.9p 11.1p
Income statement – Adjusted
Total turnover 30,821 2 5 8,197 7 5 8,092 3 6 7,310 – 4 7,222 (2) 4
Cost of sales (9,178) 5 6 (2,532) 12 12 (2,388) 4 5 (2,079) 5 7 (2,179) (2) –
Selling, general and administration (9,462) 1 4 (2,529) 5 3 (2,313) 1 4 (2,334) 2 6 (2,286) (3) 2
Research and development (3,735) (3) (2) (1,019) 3 (1) (961) 7 8 (868) (18) (15) (887) (3) 2
Royalty income 299 (16) (17) 79 14 6 94 (12) (13) 73 (26) (23) 53 (35) (34)
Operating profit 8,745 2 6 2,196 8 4 2,524 2 6 2,102 1 7 1,923 (3) 9
Net finance costs (698) (173) (221) (165) (139)
Share of after tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 31 5 15 2 9
Profit before taxation 8,078 2 6 2,028 6 2 2,318 1 5 1,939 2 8 1,793 (1) 11
Taxation (1,535) (355) (430) (388) (362)
Tax rate % 19.0% 17.5% 18.6% 20.0% 20.2%
Profit after taxation for the period 6,543 5 9 1,673 10 6 1,888 4 8 1,551 3 10 1,431 1 13
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 674 139 141 170 224
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,869 1,534 1,747 1,381 1,207
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 119.4p 7 12 31.2p 14 10 35.5p 10 14 28.1p 3 10 24.6p (2) 11
The calculation of Adjusted results is described on page 40.226
GSK Annual Report 2018
Financial record continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2018
Total US Europe International
2018 2017 Growth 2018 Growth 2018 Growth 2018 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 6,928 6,991 (1) 1 3,368 (5) (3) 1,533 5 4 2,027 3 7
Seretide/Advair 2,422 3,130 (23) (21) 1,097 (32) (30) 599 (19) (20) 726 (7) (4)
Ellipta products 2,049 1,586 29 32 1,245 24 27 457 42 41 347 33 38
Anoro Ellipta 476 342 39 42 318 36 39 101 46 45 57 46 54
Arnuity Ellipta 44 35 26 29 39 22 25 - - - 5 67 67
Incruse Ellipta 284 201 41 44 186 39 42 74 45 45 24 50 56
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,089 1,006 8 10 581 (3) (1) 253 25 24 255 26 31
Trelegy Ellipta 156 2 >100 >100 121 >100 >100 29 >100 >100 6 - -
Nucala/Mepolizumab 563 344 64 66 341 44 48 152 >100 >100 70 84 89
Avamys/Veramyst 300 281 7 10 - - - 74 (3) (4) 226 11 16
Flixotide/Flovent 595 596 - 3 333 3 6 93 (2) (3) 169 (5) 1
Ventolin 737 767 (4) (1) 352 (7) (5) 130 (2) (2) 255 - 7
Other 262 287 (9) (7) - - - 28 4 - 234 (9) (7)
HIV 4,722 4,350 9 11 2,913 8 10 1,194 7 6 615 14 20
Dolutegravir products 4,420 3,870 14 16 2,830 11 13 1,091 18 17 499 28 35
Tivicay 1,639 1,404 17 19 1,036 12 15 377 20 18 226 37 47
Triumeq 2,648 2,461 8 9 1,670 2 5 706 17 15 272 21 25
Juluca 133 5 >100 >100 124 >100 >100 8 - - 1 - -
Epzicom/Kivexa 117 234 (50) (48) 7 (74) (74) 44 (61) (61) 66 (28) (24)
Selzentry 115 128 (10) (9) 58 (12) (11) 35 (17) (17) 22 10 15
Other 70 118 (41) (40) 18 (59) (59) 24 (35) (38) 28 (26) (21)
Immuno-inflammation 472 377 25 28 420 24 27 36 33 33 16 45 64
Benlysta 473 375 26 29 420 24 27 37 37 33 16 60 80
Established pharmaceuticals 5,147 5,558 (7) (4) 752 (23) (21) 1,309 (5) (7) 3,086 (4) 2
Dermatology 435 456 (4) - 3 (57) (57) 161 (1) (2) 271 (5) 2
Augmentin 570 587 (3) 2 - - - 181 (1) (2) 389 (4) 3
Avodart 572 613 (7) (5) 12 (20) (20) 240 (19) (20) 320 6 11
Coreg 50 134 (63) (63) 50 (63) (63) - - - - - -
Eperzan/Tanzeum 31 87 (64) (64) 30 (64) (63) 1 (60) (61) - - -
Imigran/Imitrex 141 168 (16) (16) 58 (25) (23) 57 (12) (14) 26 - -
Lamictal 617 650 (5) (3) 310 (7) (5) 113 6 5 194 (8) (4)
Requip 85 110 (23) (21) 5 (58) (58) 28 (3) (7) 52 (25) (20)
Serevent 82 96 (15) (14) 43 (17) (15) 30 (9) (9) 9 (18) (18)
Seroxat/Paxil 170 184 (8) (5) - - - 39 - - 131 (10) (7)
Valtrex 123 128 (4) (1) 21 5 5 30 3 3 72 (9) (4)
Zeffix 69 89 (22) (22) 1 - - 5 (17) (17) 63 (23) (23)
Other 2,202 2,256 (2) 1 219 (10) (6) 424 (2) (3) 1,559 (1) 4
Pharmaceuticals 17,269 17,276 - 2 7,453 (2) 1 4,072 2 1 5,744 - 5227
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2017
Total US Europe International
2017 2016 Growth 2017 Growth 2017 Growth 2017 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Respiratory 6,991 6,510 7 3 3,556 8 3 1,458 5 – 1,977 9 5
Seretide/Advair 3,130 3,485 (10) (14) 1,610 (12) (16) 736 (12) (17) 784 (5) (8)
Ellipta products 1,586 950 67 59 1,004 72 65 322 59 51 260 58 50
Anoro Ellipta 342 201 70 63 234 68 61 69 77 67 39 70 65
Arnuity Ellipta 35 15 >100 >100 32 >100 >100 – – – 3 >100 >100
Incruse Ellipta 201 114 76 68 134 56 49 51 >100 >100 16 >100 >100
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 1,006 620 62 55 602 75 67 202 44 36 202 49 42
Trelegy Ellipta 2 – – – 2 – – – – – – – –
Nucala/Mepolizumab 344 102 >100 >100 236 >100 >100 70 >100 >100 38 >100 >100
Avamys/Veramyst 281 277 1 (4) 1 (96) (96) 76 3 (3) 204 15 9
Flixotide/Flovent 596 637 (6) (10) 323 (15) (18) 95 1 (5) 178 8 5
Ventolin 767 785 (2) (6) 380 (10) (14) 132 4 (2) 255 8 5
Other 287 274 5 3 2 >(100) 3 27 (4) (4) 258 4 3
HIV 4,350 3,556 22 16 2,697 26 21 1,114 10 3 539 33 26
Dolutegravir products 3,870 2,688 44 37 2,560 42 35 921 39 31 389 77 70
Tivicay 1,404 953 47 40 923 44 38 315 39 30 166 95 88
Triumeq 2,461 1,735 42 35 1,632 40 34 606 39 31 223 66 58
Juluca 5 – – – 5 – – – – – – – –
Epzicom/Kivexa 234 568 (59) (61) 27 (86) (87) 114 (54) (57) 93 (22) (25)
Selzentry 128 125 2 (2) 66 – (5) 42 1 (4) 20 15 11
Other 118 175 (32) (37) 44 (28) (31) 37 (41) (44) 37 (28) (35)
Immuno-inflammation 377 340 11 6 339 9 5 27 29 24 11 37 –
Benlysta 375 306 23 17 338 22 17 27 29 19 10 26 26
Established pharmaceuticals 5,558 5,698 (2) (5) 976 (10) (14) 1,384 (5) (11) 3,198 2 –
Dermatology 456 393 16 11 7 (56) (56) 162 11 5 287 24 20
Augmentin 587 563 4 2 – – – 182 3 (4) 405 5 5
Avodart 613 635 (3) (9) 15 (79) (79) 297 (6) (12) 301 21 16
Coreg 134 131 2 (2) 134 2 (2) – – – – – –
Eperzan/Tanzeum 87 121 (28) (31) 83 (30) (32) 3 – – 1 >(100) (100)
Imigran/Imitrex 168 177 (5) (8) 77 (9) (12) 65 5 – 26 (13) (17)
Lamictal 650 614 6 1 332 6 1 107 1 (5) 211 8 5
Requip 110 116 (5) (9) 12 (8) (15) 29 (3) (13) 69 (5) (5)
Serevent 96 96 – (4) 52 6 2 33 (6) (11) 11 (8) (8)
Seroxat/Paxil 184 206 (11) (14) – – – 39 (3) (8) 145 (4) (7)
Valtrex 128 118 8 3 20 25 19 29 16 12 79 3 (3)
Zeffix 89 111 (20) (22) 1 (50) (50) 6 (14) (29) 82 (20) (21)
Other 2,256 2,417 (7) (8) 243 (7) (11) 432 (16) (21) 1,581 (4) (4)
Pharmaceuticals 17,276 16,104 7 3 7,568 11 6 3,983 3 (3) 5,725 6 4228
GSK Annual Report 2018
Financial record continued
Vaccines turnover 2018
Total US Europe International
2018 2017 Growth 2018 Growth 2018 Growth 2018 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 881 890 (1) 2 374 10 13 336 (14) (15) 171 7 22
Bexsero 584 556 5 9 200 32 34 311 (9) (11) 73 18 52
Menveo 232 274 (15) (12) 174 (7) (5) 17 (50) (50) 41 (23) (15)
Other 65 60 8 7 – – – 8 (47) (47) 57 27 24
Influenza 523 488 7 10 385 7 9 66 35 33 72 (8) (1)
Fluarix, FluLaval 523 488 7 10 385 7 9 66 35 33 72 (8) (1)
Shingles 784 22 >100 >100 733 >100 >100 2 - - 49 - -
Shingrix 784 22 >100 >100 733 >100 >100 2 - - 49 - -
Established vaccines 3,706 3,760 (1) - 1,209 5 8 1,157 - (1) 1,340 (8) (6)
Infanrix, Pediarix 680 743 (8) (7) 296 (10) (8) 266 (16) (17) 118 20 28
Boostrix 517 560 (8) (7) 265 1 3 162 (12) (14) 90 (20) (19)
Hepatitis 808 693 17 19 458 21 24 245 22 21 105 (7) -
Rotarix 521 524 (1) 1 126 (5) (2) 110 16 15 285 (4) (2)
Synflorix 424 509 (17) (17) - - - 58 (13) (13) 366 (17) (18)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 305 301 1 2 - - - 159 (3) (4) 146 6 9
Cervarix 138 134 3 2 - - - 20 (31) (34) 118 12 12
Other 313 296 6 6 64 45 49 137 32 30 112 (24) (25)
Vaccines 5,894 5,160 14 16 2,701 45 48 1,561 (2) (4) 1,632 (3) -
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
Vaccines turnover 2017
Total US Europe International
2017 2016 Growth 2017 Growth 2017 Growth 2017 Growth
Major products £m £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER% £m £% CER%
Meningitis 890 662 34 27 339 40 34 391 40 31 160 15 6
Bexsero 556 390 43 34 152 25 20 342 45 36 62 94 75
Menveo 274 202 36 29 187 55 48 34 26 19 53 (2) (7)
Other 60 70 (14) (20) – – – 15 (12) (18) 45 (15) (21)
Influenza 488 414 18 12 361 15 10 49 53 44 78 16 9
Fluarix, FluLaval 488 414 18 12 361 15 10 49 53 44 78 16 9
Shingles 22 – – – 22 – – – – – – – –
Shingrix 22 – – – 22 – – – – – – – –
Established vaccines 3,760 3,516 7 1 1,147 10 5 1,160 4 (2) 1,453 7 1
Infanrix, Pediarix 743 769 (3) (8) 330 (2) (7) 315 (6) (11) 98 2 (4)
Boostrix 560 470 19 13 262 10 5 185 33 24 113 22 14
Hepatitis 693 602 15 10 379 29 23 201 2 (4) 113 2 (2)
Rotarix 524 469 12 6 132 2 (2) 95 27 19 297 12 6
Synflorix 509 504 1 (6) – – – 67 (1) (7) 442 1 (5)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 301 300 – (5) – – – 164 8 1 137 (8) (12)
Cervarix 134 81 65 57 – – – 29 (12) (18) 105 >100 >100
Other 296 321 (8) (13) 44 8 – 104 (7) (11) 148 (12) (17)
Vaccines 5,160 4,592 12 6 1,869 17 12 1,600 12 6 1,691 8 1
£% represents growth at actual exchange rates. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.229
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the
Five year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m £m £m
US 11,982 11,263 10,197 8,222 7,409
Europe 7,973 7,943 7,476 6,435 6,284
International 10,866 10,980 10,216 9,266 9,313
30,821 30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Group turnover by segment £m £m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 17,269 17,276 16,104 14,157 15,438
Vaccines 5,894 5,160 4,592 3,656 3,159
Consumer Healthcare 7,658 7,750 7,193 6,038 4,322
Segment turnover 30,821 30,186 27,889 23,851 22,919
Corporate and other unallocated turnover – – – 72 87
30,821 30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006
Pharmaceuticals turnover
Respiratory 6,928 6,991 6,510 5,741 6,168
HIV 4,722 4,350 3,556 2,322 1,498
Immuno-inflammation 472 377 340 263 214
Established Pharmaceuticals 5,147 5,558 5,698 5,831 7,558
17,269 17,276 16,104 14,157 15,438
Vaccines turnover
Meningitis 881 890 662 326 –
Influenza 523 488 414 268 215
Shingles 784 22 – – –
Established Vaccines 3,706 3,760 3,516 3,062 2,944
5,894 5,160 4,592 3,656 3,159
Consumer Healthcare turnover
Wellness 3,940 4,001 3,726 2,970 1,565
Oral care 2,496 2,466 2,223 1,875 1,806
Nutrition 643 680 674 684 633
Skin health 579 603 570 509 318
7,658 7,750 7,193 6,038 4,322230
GSK Annual Report 2018
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Financial results – Total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,821 30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006
Operating profit 5,483 4,087 2,598 10,322 3,597
Profit before taxation 4,800 3,525 1,939 10,526 2,968
Profit after taxation 4,046 2,169 1,062 8,372 2,831
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 73.7 31.4 18.8 174.3 57.3
Diluted earnings per share 72.9 31.0 18.6 172.3 56.7
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 4,914 4,886 4,860 4,831 4,808
Diluted 4,971 4,941 4,909 4,888 4,865
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Financial results – Adjusted £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,821 30,186 27,889 23,923 23,006
Operating profit 8,745 8,568 7,671 5,659 6,456
Profit before taxation 8,078 7,924 7,024 5,021 5,840
Profit after taxation 6,543 6,257 5,526 4,045 4,675
pence pence pence pence pence
Adjusted earnings per share 119.4 111.8 100.6 74.6 92.7
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 134.0 83.4 28.0 152.4 46.6
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.231
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Five year record continued
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 41,139 40,474 42,370 36,859 25,973
Current assets 16,927 15,907 16,711 16,587 15,059
Total assets 58,066 56,381 59,081 53,446 41,032
Current liabilities (22,491) (26,569) (19,001) (13,417) (13,676)
Non-current liabilities (31,903) (26,323) (35,117) (31,151) (22,420)
Total liabilities (54,394) (52,892) (54,118) (44,568) (36,096)
Net assets 3,672 3,489 4,963 8,878 4,936
Shareholders’ equity 4,360 (68) 1,124 5,114 4,263
Non-controlling interests (688) 3,557 3,839 3,764 673
Total equity 3,672 3,489 4,963 8,878 4,936
Number of employees
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
US 13,804 14,526 14,491 14,696 16,579
Europe 41,943 43,002 42,330 43,538 37,899
International 39,743 40,934 42,479 43,021 43,443
95,490 98,462 99,300 101,255 97,921
Manufacturing 36,527 38,245 38,372 38,855 32,171
Selling 36,351 37,374 38,158 39,549 42,785
Administration 10,768 11,307 11,244 11,140 10,630
Research and development 11,844 11,536 11,526 11,711 12,335
95,490 98,462 99,300 101,255 97,921
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are employed
and managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US Dollars for
Sterling as reported by the Bank of England (4pm buying rate).
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the 4pm buying rates for each day of the year.
2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Average 1.34 1.29 1.35 1.53 1.65
2019 2019 2019 2018 2018 2018 2018
Mar Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.32 1.33 1.32 1.28 1.31 1.32 1.33
Low 1.32 1.28 1.26 1.25 1.27 1.27 1.28
The 4pm buying rate on 1 March 2019 was £1= US$1.32.232
GSK Annual Report 2018
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Adjusted results reconciliation Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and Adjusted
results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items results
31 December 2018 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,821 30,821
Cost of sales (10,241) 536 69 443 15 – (9,178)
Gross profit 20,580 536 69 443 15 – 21,643
Selling, general and administration (9,915) 2 315 98 38 (9,462)
Research and development (3,893) 44 45 49 20 (3,735)
Royalty income 299 299
Other operating income/(expense) (1,588) 2 1,864 (278) –
Operating profit 5,483 580 116 809 1,977 (220) 8,745
Net finance costs (717) 4 (3) 18 (698)
Profit on disposal of associates 3 (3) –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 31 31
Profit before taxation 4,800 580 116 813 1,974 (205) 8,078
Taxation (754) (109) (19) (170) (239) (244) (1,535)
Tax rate 15.7% 19.0%
Profit after taxation 4,046 471 97 643 1,735 (449) 6,543
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 423 251 674
Profit attributable to shareholders 3,623 471 97 643 1,484 (449) 5,869
Earnings per share 73.7p 9.6p 2.0p 13.1p 30.2p (9.2)p 119.4p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,914 4,914
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and US tax Adjusted
Adjusted results reconciliation
results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items reform results
31 December 2017 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 30,186 30,186
Cost of sales (10,342) 546 400 545 80 – (8,771)
Gross profit 19,844 546 400 545 80 – 21,415
Selling, general and administration (9,672) 248 83 (9,341)
Research and development (4,476) 45 288 263 18 (3,862)
Royalty income 356 356
Other operating income/(expense) (1,965) 1,519 (220) 666 –
Operating profit 4,087 591 688 1,056 1,599 (119) 666 8,568
Net finance costs (669) 4 8 (657)
Profit on disposal of associates 94 (94) –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 13
Profit before taxation 3,525 591 688 1,060 1,599 (205) 666 7,924
Taxation (1,356) (134) (176) (209) (619) (251) 1,078 (1,667)
Tax rate 38.5% 21.0%
Profit after taxation 2,169 457 512 851 980 (456) 1,744 6,257
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 42 114 793
Profit attributable to shareholders 1,532 457 512 851 938 (456) 1,630 5,464
Earnings per share 31.4p 9.4p 10.5p 17.4p 19.2p (9.4)p 33.3p 111.8p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,886 4,886233
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and Adjusted
Adjusted results reconciliation
results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items results
31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,889 27,889
Cost of sales (9,290) 547 7 297 86 2 (8,351)
Gross profit 18,599 547 7 297 86 2 19,538
Selling, general and administration (9,366) 514 55 (8,797)
Research and development (3,628) 41 13 159 (81) 28 (3,468)
Royalty income 398 398
Other operating income/(expense) (3,405) 3,914 (509) –
Operating profit 2,598 588 20 970 3,919 (424) 7,671
Net finance costs (664) 4 8 (652)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 5 5
Profit before taxation 1,939 588 20 974 3,919 (416) 7,024
Taxation (877) (130) (5) (217) (439) 170 (1,498)
Tax rate 45.2% 21.3%
Profit after taxation 1,062 458 15 757 3,480 (246) 5,526
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 150 487 637
Profit attributable to shareholders 912 458 15 757 2,993 (246) 4,889
Earnings per share 18.8p 9.4p 0.3p 15.6p 61.6p (5.1)p 100.6p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,860 4,860
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and Adjusted
Adjusted results reconciliation
results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items results
31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,923 23,923
Cost of sales (8,853) 522 147 563 89 12 (7,520)
Gross profit 15,070 522 147 563 89 12 16,403
Selling, general and administration (9,232) 7 1,009 88 151 (7,977)
Research and development (3,560) 41 52 319 52 (3,096)
Royalty income 329 329
Other operating income/(expense) 7,715 2,061 (9,776) –
Operating profit 10,322 563 206 1,891 2,238 (9,561) 5,659
Net finance costs (653) 5 12 (636)
Profit on disposal of associates 843 (843) –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 14 (16) (2)
Profit before taxation 10,526 563 206 1,896 2,238 (10,408) 5,021
Taxation (2,154) (161) (50) (441) (352) 2,182 (976)
Tax rate 20.5% 19.4%
Profit after taxation 8,372 402 156 1,455 1,886 (8,226) 4,045
(Loss)/profit attributable to non-controlling interests (50) 500 (10) 440
Profit attributable to shareholders 8,422 402 156 1,455 1,386 (8,216) 3,605
Earnings per share 174.3p 8.3p 3.2p 30.1p 28.8p (170.1)p 74.6p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,831 4,831234
GSK Annual Report 2018
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
Divestments,
Intangible Intangible significant
Total asset asset Major Transaction legal and Adjusted
Adjusted results reconciliation
results amortisation impairment restructuring -related other items results
31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,006 23,006
Cost of sales (7,323) 503 78 204 3 (6,535)
Gross profit 15,683 503 78 204 3 16,471
Selling, general and administration (8,246) 430 68 536 (7,212)
Research and development (3,450) 72 72 116 77 (3,113)
Royalty income 310 310
Other operating income/(expense) (700) 768 (68) –
Operating profit 3,597 575 150 750 839 545 6,456
Net finance costs (659) 5 8 (646)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 30 30
Profit before taxation 2,968 575 150 755 839 553 5,840
Taxation (137) (209) (29) (215) (207) (368) (1,165)
Tax rate 4.6% 19.9%
Profit after taxation 2,831 366 121 540 632 185 4,675
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 75 147 222
Profit attributable to shareholders 2,756 366 121 540 485 185 4,453
Earnings per share 57.3p 7.6p 2.5p 11.3p 10.2p 3.8p 92.7p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,808 4,808235
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pipeline, products and competition
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key † In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party R Receipt of Complete Response Letter
^ V iiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with BLA Biological Licence Application
GSK, Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe)
is responsible for developing and delivering HIV medicines. NDA New Drug Application (US)
* Registrational in PhII Phase I E valuation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
** Under review in volunteers
1 Option-based alliance with Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Phase II D etermination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy,
2 Option-based alliance with Immunocore Ltd. conducted in a small number of patients
3 P ending closure of transaction with Merck KGaA, Phase III L arge comparative study (compound versus placebo
Darmstadt, Germany and/or established treatment) in patients to establish
S First submission clinical benefit and safety
A F irst regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU
approval letter)
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Oncology
Zejula (niraparib)† Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) First line maintenance ovarian cancer and other III
1/2 inhibitor solid tumours
dostarlimab† Anti-Programmed Cell Death protein 1 receptor Ovarian cancer III
(PD-1) antibody Non-small cell lung cancer, MSI-H cancer II
(incl endometrial)*
2857916† B-cell maturation antigen antibody drug conjugate Multiple myeloma* II
3377794† NY-ESO-1 autologous engineered TCR-T cells Sarcoma, solid and heme malignancies II
(engineered TCR)
3359609† Induced T-cell co-stimulator (ICOS) agonist Non-small cell lung cancer and solid tumours II
antibody
molibresib BET family bromodomain inhibitor ER+ breast cancer, other solid tumours and II
(525762) haematological malignancies
M7824†3 Transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) trap and Non-small cell lung cancer II
immune checkpoint (PD-1) inhibitor bispecific
TSR-022† Anti-T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-3 Non-small cell lung cancer II
(TIM-3) antibody
3174998† OX40 agonist monoclonal antibody Solid tumours and haematological malignancies II
3326595† Protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) Solid tumours, heme malignancies I/II
inhibitor
1795091 Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist Cancer I
2636771 Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) beta inhibitor Cancer I
3368715† Protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) Cancer I
inhibitor
3145095 RIP1 kinase inhibitor Pancreatic cancer and selected solid tumors I
35371422 NY-ESO-1-targeting bispecific Cancer I
TSR-033† Anti-lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) antibody Cancer I
HIV^ and Infectious Diseases
Dectova Neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) Influenza Submitted S: Nov17
(zanamivir) i.v.†
dolutegravir + HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor + HIV infection Submitted S:Sep18 S:Oct18
lamivudine nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI)
fostemsavir HIV attachment inhibitor HIV infection III
cabotegravir + HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor + HIV infection III
rilpivirine† non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor
(NNRTI) (long-acting regimen)
cabotegravir HIV integrase strand transfer inhibitor (long-acting) HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis III
gepotidacin Type 2 topoisomerase inhibitor Bacterial infections II
32288361 HBV antisense oligonucleotide Hepatitis B II
33894041 HBV LICA antisense oligonucleotide Hepatitis B II
3640254 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infection II
3036656† Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor Tuberculosis I
3810109† HIV broadly neutralizing antibody HIV infection I236
GSK Annual Report 2018
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta + Rituxan† B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal Systemic lupus erythematosus III
antibody (s.c.) + cluster of differentiation Sjogren’s syndrome II
20 (CD20) monoclonal antibody (i.v.)
3196165† Granulocyte macrophage colony- Rheumatoid arthritis II
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody
2982772 Receptor-interacting protein 1 (RIP1) Psoriasis**, rheumatoid arthritis, ulcerative colitis II
kinase inhibitor
2330811 Oncostatin M (OSM) monoclonal Systemic sclerosis II
antibody
2831781† Lymphocyte activation gene 3 (LAG3) Ulcerative colitis I
protein monoclonal antibody
2983559 Receptor-interacting protein 2 (RIP2) Inflammatory bowel diseases** I
kinase inhibitor
3358699† BET targeted inhibitor Rheumatoid arthritis I
3858279† CCL17 inhibitor Pain in osteoarthritis I
Respiratory
mepolizumab Interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody COPD Complete R: Sep18
response
letter
hypereosinophilic syndrome and nasal polyposis III
fluticasone furoate + Glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting Asthma III
vilanterol† + beta2 agonist + muscarinic a
umeclidinium cetylcholine antagonist
2586881† Recombinant human angiotensin Acute lung injury** and pulmonary arterial II
converting enzyme 2 (rhACE2) hypertension
2862277 Tumour necrosis factor receptor-1 Acute lung injury II
(TNFR1) domain antibody
3772847† Interleukin 33r (IL33r) monoclonal Asthma II
antibody
2881078 Selective androgen receptor modulator COPD muscle weakness II
nemiralisib Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta Activated PI3K delta syndrome I
(PI3Kδ) inhibitor
2292767 Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta Respiratory diseases** I
(PI3Kδ) inhibitor
3511294† Interleukin 5 (IL5) long-acting Asthma I
monoclonal antibody
Other Pharmaceuticals
Krintafel† (tafenoquine) 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria Approved A: Jul18
daprodustat (1278863) Prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor (oral) Anaemia associated with chronic renal disease III
oxytocin (inhaled)† Oxytocin Postpartum hemorrhage II
linerixibat (2330672) Ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) inhibitor Cholestatic pruritus II
3439171† Hematopoietic prostaglandin D2 Muscle repair I
(hPGD2) synthase inhibitor237
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Vaccines
Shingrix† Recombinant Herpes Zoster prophylaxis Approved A:March
(Zoster Vaccine) Herpes Zoster prophylaxis for immunocompromised III 2018
Bexsero Recombinant Meningococcal B disease prophylaxis in infants III (US)
Rotarix Live attenuated, PCV (Porcine circovirus) Rotavirus prophylaxis III
free
MMR Live attenuated Measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis III (US)
COPD† Recombinant Reduction of the frequency of moderate and severe II
acute exacerbations in COPD patients by targeting
non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella
catarrhalis
Hepatitis C† Heterologous recombinant viral Hepatitis C virus prophylaxis: prevention of II
vectors establishment of chronic infection
Malaria next Recombinant Malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
generation†
Men ABCWY Recombinant – conjugated Meningococcal A,B,C,W and Y disease prophylaxis II
in adolescents
Menveo Liquid Conjugated Meningococcal A,C,W and Y disease prophylaxis II
in adolescents
Shigella† Conjugated and outer membrane Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis II
Tuberculosis† Recombinant Tuberculosis prophylaxis II
RSV† Replication-defective recombinant Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in paediatric II
viral vector population
Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older adult I/II
population
Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in maternal I/II
population
HIV† Recombinant proteins HIV infection prophylaxis II
Flu universal† Universal inactivated split influenza Flu disease prophylaxis with broad protection over I/II
vaccine multiple seasons
Brand names appearing in italics are trade marks owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies.238
GSK Annual Report 2018
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates2
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Respiratory
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Stiolto Respimat, 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate Utibron/Ultibro (NCE) (NCE)
Breezhaler, 2027-2030 2022-2026
Duaklir Genuair (device/ (device/
Bevespi, Aerosphere formulation) formulation)
Arnuity Ellipta fluticasone furoate asthma Qvar, Pulmicort 2021 NA
Asmanex, Alvesco (NCE)
2027-2030
(device/
formulation)
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasonex 20211 2023
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair expired expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2019-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Incruse Ellipta umeclidinium bromide COPD Spiriva Handihaler/ 2027 2029
Respimat, Eklira Genuair (NCE) (NCE)
Seebri Breezhaler 2027-2030 2022-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Nucala mepolizumab severe eosinophilic asthma, EGPA Xolair, Cinqair, 20193 20203
Fasenra, Dupixent
Relvar/Breo Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2025 2027
vilanterol trifenatate Flutiform, Dulera (NCE) (NCE)
2027-2030 2022-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Seretide/Advair salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, expired expired
fluticasone propionate Flutiform, Dulera (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2019-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Trelegy Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ COPD Trimbow 2027 2029
vilanterol trifenatate (NCE) (NCE)
umeclidinium bromide 2027-2030 2022-2026
(device/ (device/
formulation) formulation)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2019-2026 expired
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Anti-virals
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, shingles Famvir expired expired
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various anxiety Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
disorders Lexapro
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, expired expired
finasteride
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
Rare diseases
Volibris ambrisentan pulmonary hypertension Tracleer, Revatio NA 2020
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta, Benlysta SC belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus 2025 2026
1 Generic competition commenced in 2017.
2 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.
3 Data exclusivity expires 2025 (EU) and 2027 (US).239
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
HIV
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired 20191,2
Descovy, Genvoya (combination)
Odefsey
Juluca dolutegravir, rilpivirine HIV/AIDS Genvoya, Odefsey 2027 2029
Descovy, Atripla (NCE) (NCE)
Selzentry/Celsentri maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2021 2022
Prezista (NCE) (NCE)
Tivicay dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 20271 2029
Reyataz, Kaletra, (NCE) (NCE)
Biktarvy
Triumeq dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Atripla, Descovy, 2027 2029
and abacavir Odefsey, Genvoya, (NCE) (NCE)
Biktarvy
Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Bexsero meningococcal group-B Meningitis group B prevention Trumenba 2027 2028
vaccine
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular diphtheria, tetanus, acellular Adacel expired expired
pertussis Pertussis booster vaccination
Infanrix Hexa/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Prophylaxis against diphtheria, Pentacel, Pediacel, expired expired
polio, hepatitis B, Haemophilus tetanus, pertussis, polio, Pentaxim, Pentavac,
influenzae type B (EU) hepatitis B, Haemophilus Hexaxim, Hexyon
influenzae type B (EU) Vaxelis
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2028 2022
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Intenza, Flumist QIV, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Vaxigrip QIV,
and 2 subtype B) Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Fluzone, Influvac,
and 2 subtype B) Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Menveo meningococcal group A, C, W- Meningitis group A, C, W-135 Nimenrix, Menactra 2025 2025
135 and Y conjugate vaccine and Y prophylaxis
Prepandrix derived split inactivated pandemic H5N1 influenza Aflunov, Vepacel – 2026
influenza virus antigen, prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Priorix, Priorix Tetraa,b live attenuated measles, mumps, measles, mumps, rubella and MMR II (M-M-RVaxPro) 20194 expired
Varilrixb rubella and varicella vaccine chickenpox prophylaxis Proquad, Varivax
Rotarix Human rotavirus RIX4414 strain Rotavirus prophylaxis Rotateq – 2020
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal Prophylaxis against invasive Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2024
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia,
acute otitis media
Shingrix zoster vaccine herpes zoster Zostavax 2026 2026
recombinant, adjuvanted (shingles)
1 See Note 45 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Generic competition commenced in many markets during 2016.
3 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.
4 Refers to Priorix and Priorix Tetra, as all patents on Varilrix have expired.
a Related compounds/indications are measles, mumps and rubella vaccine/prophylaxis
b Related compound is varicella vaccine240
GSK Annual Report 2018
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Wellness
Respiratory
Otrivin nasal spray nasal decongestant Germany, Poland, Afrin, Merck
Russia, Sweden, Ukraine Nasivin, Merck
Theraflu tablets, syrups and pods cold and flu relief Russia, Poland, Ukraine, Tylenol Cold & Flu,
US Johnson & Johnson
Mucinex, Reckitt Benckiser
Lemsip, Reckitt Benckiser
Flonase nasal spray allergy relief US Claritin, Bayer, Nasacort, Sanofi
Flixonase, Piriton nasal spray, tablets allergy relief UK, Ireland Benadryl, Johnson & Johnson
Nicorette (US), lozenges, gum and treatment of nicotine withdrawal global Nicorette, Johnson & Johnson
NicoDerm, trans-dermal patches as an aid to smoking reduction NiQuitin, Perrigo
Nicotinell and cessation
(ex. Australia)
Pain relief
Panadol and tablets, caplets, infant paracetamol-based treatment global (except US) Advil, Pfizer
Panadol Cold syrup drops for headache, joint pain, fever, Aspirin, Bayer
& Flu cold symptoms Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Voltaren topical gel non-steroidal, diclofenac based global (except US) Advil, Pfizer
anti-inflammatory Aspirin, Bayer
Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Other
ENO effervescent immediate relief antacid global (except US) Estomazil, Hypermarca
Gelusil, Pfizer
Tums chewable tablets immediate relief antacid US Alka-Seltzer, Bayer
Gaviscon, Reckitt Benckiser
Rolaids, Sanofi
Oral health
Sensodyne, toothpastes, toothbrushes, relief of dentinal hypersensitivity. global Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief,
Pronamel mouth rinse Pronamel additionally protects Colgate-Palmolive
against acid erosion Elmex, Colgate-Palmolive
Oral B, Procter & Gamble
parodontax/ toothpaste, medicated helps stop and prevent global Colgate Total Gum Health,
Corsodyl mouthwash, gel and spray bleeding gums, treats and Colgate-Palmolive
prevents gingivitis Oral B Gum & Enamel Repair,
Crest Gum Detoxify,
Procter & Gamble
Polident, denture adhesive, denture improve retention and comfort global Fixodent and Kukident,
Poligrip, cleanser, wipes of dentures, cleans dentures Procter & Gamble,
Corega Steradent, Reckitt Benckiser
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes aids prevention of dental cavities, global Colgate, Colgate-Palmolive
mouthwashes maintains healthy teeth, gums Crest, Procter & Gamble
and fresh breath Oral-B, Procter & Gamble
Skin health
Zovirax topical cream and lip care to treat and prevent global Compeed, Johnson & Johnson
Abreva non-medicated patch the onset of cold sores Carmex, Carma Labs
Blistex, Blistex Incorporated
retail own label
Nutrition
Horlicks malted drinks and foods nutritional Indian sub-continent, Bournvita, Mondelez
beverages & food United Kingdom, Ireland Complan, Heinz241
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties As rules and regulations change, and governmental interpretation
relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations evolves, the nature of a particular risk may change. Changes to
that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. certain regulatory regimes may be substantial. Any change in, and
The risks below are those that we believe could cause our actual any failure to comply with, applicable law and regulations could
results to differ materially from expected and historical results. During materially and adversely affect our financial results.
2018 we have evolved the cycle of management of these risks which
Similarly, our global business exposes us to litigation and government
helps us Identify, manage and report on our most important risks in
investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation,
a proportionate and consistent way.
patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
We must adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and Litigation and government investigations, including related provisions
regulations which apply to research and development, manufacturing, we may make for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related
testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of Pharmaceutical, costs such as insurance premiums, could materially and adversely
Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products. These affect not only affect our financial results.
the cost of product development but also the time required to reach
More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in our
the market and the likelihood of doing so successfully on a
significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in
continuous basis.
Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings,’ on pages 215 to 218.
Also, during 2018 we have improved consistency of risk management
UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a
across the organisation through evolution of our enterprise risk
company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties. A summary
management and reporting cycle.
of the activities that the Group takes to manage each of our principal
risks accompanies the description of each principal risk below. The
principal risks and uncertainties are not listed in order of significance.
Patient safety
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report human The Chief Medical Officer (CMO), who is also the Medical Officer
safety information (HSI), including adverse events from all potential for Pharmaceuticals, is responsible for medical governance under
sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a timely manner. a global policy. Under that policy, safeguarding human subjects in
our clinical trials and patients who take our products is of paramount
Risk impact
importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating
The risk impact has the potential to compromise our ability to and addressing matters of human safety.
conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to Individual Medical Officers within the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and
ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk/ Consumer Healthcare businesses and our substantial Safety and
benefit profile of our products, including the completeness and Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse issues
accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional studies/ reported for our products during the course of clinical studies. Once
analyses, as appropriate. This could lead to potential harm to a Group product is approved for marketing, we have an extensive
patients, reputational damage, product liability claims or other post-marketing surveillance and signal detection system. Information
litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as on possible side effects of products is received from several sources
fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation. including unsolicited reports from healthcare professionals (HCPs)
Context and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and scientific literature,
traditional media and social media. It is our policy that employees are
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or
of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare quality of our products. Each of our country managers is responsible
products to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for use for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the
by humans. Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the collection of safety information and reporting the information to the
safety of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical relevant central safety department, in accordance with policy and
trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when legal requirements.
products are widely introduced into the marketplace. Questions
Information that changes the risk/benefit profile of one of our
about the safety of our products may be raised not only by our
products will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate
ongoing safety surveillance and post-marketing studies but also by
and minimise the risk. Proposed actions are discussed with
governmental agencies and third parties that may analyse publicly
regulatory authorities and can include modifying the prescribing
available clinical trial results. Constant vigilance and flexibility is
information, communications to physicians and other healthcare
required in order to respond to a varied regulatory environment
providers, restrictions on product prescribing/availability to help
which continues to evolve and diverge globally.
assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to
lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for withdraw the medicine from the market.
damages related to our products. Litigation, particularly in the US, is
inherently unpredictable. Class actions that seek to sweep together
all persons who take our products increase the potential liability.
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently
asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent
potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially and
adversely affect the Group’s financial results.242
GSK Annual Report 2018
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Patient safety continued
Our Global Safety Board (GSB), comprising senior physicians and In addition to the medical governance framework as described
representatives of supporting functions, is an integral component above, we use several mechanisms to foster the early evaluation,
of the system. The GSB (including subsidiary boards dedicated to mitigation and resolution of disputes as they arise, and of potential
Consumer Healthcare products and Vaccines) reviews the safety claims even before they occur. The goal of the programmes is to
of investigational and our marketed products and has the authority create a culture of early identification and evaluation of risks and
to stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial is not ethically claims (actual or potential) that remains strong through organisational
or scientifically justified in light of information that has emerged since and regulatory change, in order to minimise liability and litigation.
the start of the trial.
Product quality
Risk definition There is no single external quality standard or system that governs
the detailed global regulatory expectations for the quality of medicinal
Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices
products. Requirements are often complex and fragmented across
(cGMP) or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the
national and regional boundaries. We have therefore adopted the
supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and
internationally recognised principles from the ‘ICH Q10:
distribution of products.
Pharmaceutical Quality Systems’ framework as the basis for the
Risk impact GSK Quality Management System.
This is an industry standard which incorporates quality concepts
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching
throughout the product lifecycle. The GSK Quality Management
implications in terms of patient and consumer safety resulting in
System is augmented by a consolidation of the numerous regulatory
product launch delays, supply interruptions and product recalls.
requirements defined by markets across the world, which assures
This would have the potential to do damage to our reputation, as
that it meets external expectations for product quality in the markets
well as result in other regulatory, legal and financial consequences.
supplied. The Quality Management System is routinely updated
Context to ensure that it keeps pace with the evolving external regulatory
environment and with new scientific understanding of our products
Patients, consumers and HCPs trust the quality of our products.
and processes. As part of our drive to continually improve the
Product quality may be influenced by many factors including
operational deployment of our Quality Management System, we
product and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing
are making our policies and procedures simpler to understand
components, compliance with GMP, accuracy of labelling, reliability
and implement, as well as adopting innovative tools to give a
of the external supply chain, and the embodiment of an overarching
more user-friendly experience.
quality culture. The internal and external environment continues to
evolve as new products and new legislation are introduced. We provide the Corporate Executive Team & Risk Oversight and
Critically, we are addressing the impact of Brexit on our supply Compliance Council with an integrated assessment of Regulated
chain management and quality oversight between the UK and the Quality (GxP) performance. The defined key performance indicators
EU and are developing and deploying appropriate contingency cover manufacturing practice, clinical practice, pharmacovigilance
plans to avoid interruption of supply to patients. practice, regulatory practice, drug safety assessment, and animal
welfare.
Mitigating activities
We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and
An extensive global network of quality and compliance professionals managing third party suppliers that provide materials which are used
is aligned with each business unit to provide oversight and assist in finished products. Contract manufacturers making our products
with the delivery of quality performance and operational compliance, are expected to comply with GSK standards and are regularly
from site level to senior management level. Management oversight audited to provide assurance that standards are met.
of those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of Quality
All staff members are regularly trained to ensure that cGMP standards
Councils and through an independent Chief Product Quality Officer
and behaviours based on our values and expectations are followed.
and Global Product Quality Office.
Additionally, advocacy and communication programmes are routinely
We have developed and implemented a single Quality Management deployed to ensure consistent messages are conveyed across the
System that defines the quality standards and systems for our organisation, whether they originate from changes in regulation,
businesses associated with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and learnings from inspections, or regulatory submissions. There is a
Consumer Healthcare products and clinical trial materials. This continued emphasis on the value of quality performance metrics
system has a broad scope and is applicable throughout the to facilitate improvement and foster a culture of ‘right first time’.
product lifecycle from R&D to mature commercial supply.243
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial controls and reporting
Risk definition We expect there to be continued focus on tax reform in 2019 and
future years driven by initiatives of the Organisation for Economic
Failure to comply with current tax laws or incurring significant losses
Cooperation & Development to address the taxation of the digital
due to treasury activities; failure to report accurate financial information
economy and European Commission initiatives including the use
in compliance with accounting standards and applicable legislation.
of fiscal state aid investigations. Together with domestic initiatives
Risk impact around the world, these may result in significant changes to
established tax principles and an increase in tax authority disputes.
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and These, regardless of their merit or outcomes, can be costly, divert
disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income management attention and may adversely impact our reputation
and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action and and relationship with key stakeholders.
could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Changes in
Mitigating activities
tax laws or in their application with respect to matters such as transfer
pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax credits,
Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional management
taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief allowed
and then reviewed with the Financial Controller and the Chief
on the interest on debt funding, could impact our effective tax rate.
Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our Financial Controller and
Significant losses may arise from inconsistent application of treasury
our CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and to
policies, transactional or settlement errors, or counterparty defaults.
evaluate performance to plan. Significant judgments are reviewed
Any changes in the substance or application of the governing tax and confirmed by senior management. Business re-organisations
laws, failure to comply with such tax laws or significant losses due and newly acquired activities are integrated into risk assessments
to treasury activities could materially and adversely affect our and appropriate controls and reviews are applied.
financial results.
Counterparty exposure is subject to defined limits approved by the
Context Board for both credit rating and individual counterparties. Oversight
of Treasury’s role in managing counterparty risk in line with agreed
The Group is required by the laws of various jurisdictions to disclose policy is performed by a Corporate Compliance Officer, who
publicly its financial results and events that could materially affect operates independently of Treasury. Further details on mitigation
the financial results of the Group. Regulators routinely review the of Treasury risks can be found on pages 198 to 200, Note 42,
financial statements of listed companies for compliance with new, ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’.
revised or existing accounting and regulatory requirements. The
We maintain a control environment designed to identify material
Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory
errors in financial reporting and disclosure. The design and operating
requirements concerning our financial statements and disclosure
effectiveness of key financial reporting controls are regularly tested
of material information including any transactions relating to business
by management and via Independent Business Monitoring. This
restructuring such as acquisitions and divestitures. However, should
provides us with the assurance that controls over key financial
we be subject to an investigation into potential non-compliance
reporting and disclosure processes have operated effectively.
with accounting and disclosure requirements, this may lead to
A minimum standard control set has been implemented, whereby
restatements of previously reported results and significant penalties.
all Finance activities, are required to apply and ensure they are
Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign monitored. Our Global Finance Risk Management and Controls
exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis. Centre of Excellence provides extra support to large Group
These transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk. organisations undergoing transformation such as system deployment
The Group’s effective tax rate reflects rates of tax in the jurisdictions or significant business and finance transformations. We have also
in which the Group operates that are both higher and lower than the added operational resources to ensure processes and controls
UK rate and takes into account regimes that encourage innovation are maintained during business transformation, the upgrade of
and investment in science by providing tax incentives which, if our financial systems and processes. Additional risk mitigation
changed, could affect the Group’s tax rate. In addition, the worldwide has been introduced by amending the programme timelines of
nature of our operations means that our intellectual property, R&D system upgrades to optimise delivery.
and manufacturing operations are centered in a number of key The Disclosure Committee reporting to the Board, reviews the
locations. A consequence of this is that our cross-border supply Group’s quarterly results and Annual Report and determines
routes, necessary to ensure supplies of medicines into numerous throughout the year, in consultation with its legal advisors, whether
end markets, can be complex and result in conflicting claims from it is necessary to disclose publicly information about the Group
tax authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual countries. through Stock Exchange announcements. The Treasury Management
Tax legislation itself is also complex and differs across the countries Group meets on a regular basis to seek to ensure that liquidity,
in which we operate. As such, tax risk can also arise due to interest rate, counterparty, foreign currency transaction and foreign
differences in the interpretation of such legislation. The tax charge currency translation risks are all managed in line with the conservative
included in our financial statements is our best estimate of tax liability approach as detailed in the associated risk strategies and policies
pending audits by tax authorities. which have been adopted by the Board.244
GSK Annual Report 2018
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Financial controls and reporting continued
Tax risk is managed through robust internal policies, processes, Our tax affairs are managed on a global basis through a co-ordinated
training and compliance programmes to ensure we have alignment team of tax professionals led by the Global Head of Tax who works
across our business and meet our tax obligations. We seek to closely with the business. Our tax professionals are suitably qualified
maintain open, positive relationships with governments and tax for the roles they perform, and we support their training needs in
authorities worldwide and we welcome constructive debate on order that they continue to be able to provide up to date technical
taxation policy. We monitor government debate on tax policy in our advice. We submit tax returns according to statutory time limits
key jurisdictions to deal proactively with any potential future changes and engage with tax authorities to seek to ensure our tax affairs
in tax law. We engage advisors and legal counsel to confirm the are current, entering arrangements such as Continuous Audit
implications for our business of tax legislation such as the recently Programmes and Advance Pricing Agreements where appropriate.
enacted US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Where appropriate, we are These agreements provide long-term certainty for both tax authorities
active in providing relevant business input to tax policy makers. and for us over the tax treatment of our business. In exceptional
Significant decisions are submitted for consideration to the Tax cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement with tax
Governance Board which meets quarterly and comprises senior authorities, we may have to resolve disputes through formal appeals
personnel from across GSK’s Finance division. or other proceedings.
We keep up-to-date with the latest developments in financial
reporting requirements by working with our external auditor and
legal advisors.
Anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC)
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure of GSK employees, consultants and third parties to comply Programme governance is provided through Enterprise Risk
with our Anti-bribery & corruption (ABAC) principles and standards, Management overseen by the ABAC Governance Board which
as well as with all applicable legislation. includes representation from key functional areas and the business.
We have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for the implementation
Risk impact
and evolution of the programme in response to developments in
Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated the internal and external environment. This is complemented with
persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action, and civil independent oversight and assurance undertaken by the Audit
and criminal liability and may compromise the Group’s ability to & Assurance and Independent Business Monitoring teams.
supply its products under certain government contracts. In addition We have an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to ensure
to legal and financial penalties, a failure to prevent bribery through compliance with our ABAC policies and mitigate the risk of bribery
complying with ABAC legislation and regulations could have and corruption. It builds on our business standards, values and
substantial implications for the reputation of the company, the expectations to form a comprehensive and practical approach to
credibility of senior leaders, and an erosion of investor confidence compliance and is flexible to the evolving nature of our business.
in our governance and risk management.
Our Code of Conduct, values and expectations, and commitment to
Context zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk. In light of the
complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we constantly evolve
We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global
our oversight of activities and data, reinforce to our workforce clear
business operations. In some markets, the government structure
expectations regarding acceptable behaviours, and maintain regular
and the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on our
communications between the centre and local markets.
bribery and corruption risk exposure. In addition to the global nature
of our business, the healthcare sector by its very nature maintains Our ABAC programme is built on best in class principles and is
relationships with government bodies, is highly competitive and subject to ongoing review and development. It provides us with
subject to regulation. This increases the instances where we are the basis from which we seek to manage the risk from top down
exposed to bribery and corruption risk. and bottom up. For example, the programme comprises top-level
commitment from the Board of Directors and leadership, a global risk
The Group has been subject to a number of ABAC inquiries. We
assessment and key risk indicators to enable targeted intervention
reached a resolution with the US authorities in 2016 regarding their
and risk management activities. The programme is underpinned by a
ABAC inquiry, following which we were subject to a self-monitoring
global ABAC policy and written standards that address commercial
arrangement. The self-monitorship concluded in September 2018.
and other practices that give rise to ABAC risk and ongoing
Government investigations regarding our China and other business
communications. We provide mandatory periodic ABAC training
operations are ongoing. These investigations are discussed further
to our staff and relevant third parties in accordance with their roles,
in Note 45, ‘Legal proceedings’.
responsibilities and the risks they face. In addition, the programme
mandates enhanced controls over interactions with government
officials and during business development transactions.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other large
multinational companies and use external expertise and internal
insights to drive improvements in the programme.245
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Commercial practices
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to engage in commercial activities that are consistent with Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure we achieve our
the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or the Group’s requirements mission of helping people do more, feel better and live longer. We
relating to marketing and communications about our medicines continue to strive for new product launches that are competitive and
and associated therapeutic areas; appropriate interactions with resourced effectively. We also strive to have a healthy proportion of
healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients; and legitimate and the Group’s sales ratio attributable to new product or innovation
transparent transfer of value. sales.
Risk impact This innovation helps us defray the effect, for example, of downward
price pressure in major markets, declining emerging market growth
Failure to manage risks related to commercial practices could and negative foreign exchange impact. Establishing new products
materially and adversely affect our ability to grow a diversified that are priced to balance expectations of patients and consumers,
global business and deliver more products of value for patients HCPs, payers, shareholders, and the community enables us to
and consumers. Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and maintain a strong global business and remain relevant to the needs
regulations may result in governmental investigation, regulatory action of patients and consumers. Our values and behaviours provide a
and legal proceedings brought against the Group by governmental guide for how we lead and make decisions. We constantly strive
and private plaintiffs which could result in government sanctions, to do the right thing and deliver quality products and ensure supply
and criminal and/or financial penalties. Failure to provide accurate is sustained to meet customer needs and demand requirements,
and complete information related to our products may result in seeking to ensure our actions reflect our values, behaviours and
incomplete awareness of the risk/benefit profile of our products the mission of our company.
and possibly suboptimal treatment of patients and consumers.
We have taken action to enhance and improve standards and
Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values could procedures for customer and consumer engagement utilising the
also result in reputational harm and dilute trust established with application of data analytics and e-commerce channels. We have
external stakeholders. policies and standards governing commercial activities undertaken
Context by us or on our behalf. Training has been implemented to support
the evolution of our activities to all relevant employees. All of these
We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high ethical,
competitive and highly regulated. Our competitors may make regulatory, and industry standards. Where local standards differ
significant product innovations and technical advances and may from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies. We
intensify price competition. In light of this competitive environment, have harmonised policies and procedures to guide above-country
continued development of commercially viable new products and commercial practice processes as well as clarified applicable
the development of additional uses for existing products that reflect standards for operations in the various markets in which we operate.
insights which help ensure those products address the needs of Each business has adopted the Internal Control Framework to
patients/consumers, HCPs, and payers are critical to achieve our support the assessment and management of its risks. Commercial
strategic objectives. practices activities have appropriate monitoring programmes and
oversight from both business unit Risk Management and Compliance
As other pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer companies, we
Boards and Country Executive Boards that manage risks across
face downward price pressure in major markets, declining emerging
in-country business activities. Where in the past we have fallen
market growth, and negative foreign exchange impact.
below our own or any other regulatory or industry standards, we
Developing new Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare have sought to improve both the framework and culture for our
products is a costly, lengthy and an uncertain process. A product compliance processes.
candidate may fail at any stage, including after significant economic
All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and
and human resources have been invested. Our competitors’
approved according to our policies and standards, and conducted
products or pricing strategies, or any failure on our part to develop
in accordance with local laws and regulations, to seek to ensure that
commercially successful products, or to develop additional uses
these materials and activities fairly represent the products or services
for existing products, could materially and adversely affect our ability
of the Group. When necessary, we have disciplined (up to and
to achieve our strategic objectives.
including termination) employees who have engaged in misconduct
We are committed to the ethical and responsible commercialisation and have broadened our ability to claw back remuneration from
of our products to support our mission to improve the quality of senior management in the event of misconduct.
human life by enabling people to do more, feel better, and live longer.
We have eliminated rewards based on individual sales or market
To accomplish this mission, we engage the healthcare community in
share of prescription products for sales professionals and their
various ways to provide important information about our medicines.
managers who interact with HCPs in favour of rewards based on
Promotion of approved products seeks to ensure that HCPs globally
the quality of the individuals’ interactions with HCPs.
have access to information they need, that patients and consumers
have access to the information and products they need and that In October 2018, we announced changes that allow fair market
products are prescribed, recommended or used in a manner that value payments to be made by GSK to expert practitioners to speak
provides the maximum healthcare benefit to patients and consumers. about our innovative medicines and vaccines in a limited number
We are committed to communicating information related to our of countries during a restricted time period in a product’s lifecycle.
approved products in a responsible, legal and ethical manner. New controls and training have been implemented to support these
changes while ensuring appropriate oversight and assurance across
the markets. Under the new policy, we will expand our reporting of
payments to individual HCPs as part of our commitment to
transparency and responsible disclosure.246
GSK Annual Report 2018
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Privacy
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The failure to collect, secure, use and destroy personal information The Chief Compliance Officer is also the chairperson of the Privacy
(PI) in accordance with applicable data privacy laws. Governance Board (PGB), which oversees GSK’s overall data
privacy programme. Each business and function has appointed a
Risk impact
Risk Owner who is accountable for the oversight of privacy risks
Non-compliance can lead to harm to individuals (e.g. financial associated with that business or functional area. They are supported
loss, distress, prejudice) and GSK (e.g. fines, management time, by Privacy Leaders within their business or function. Additionally, in
operational inefficiency, out of pocket costs, and reputational some countries data privacy laws require a Data Protection Officer
damage). It can also damage trust between GSK and individuals, (DPO) to be appointed. GSK has appointed a single DPO for the
communities, business partners and government authorities. European Union, who is represented and supported in specific
countries by Country Privacy Advisors. The Chief Compliance
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) increased the
Officer is the Enterprise Risk Owner (ERO). The ERO has appointed
enforcement powers of EU supervisory authorities, including by
a delegate risk owner, the Global Privacy Officer (GPO) who has
allowing them to impose fines of up to 4% of global revenue, and to
accountability on a day-to-day basis for designing and implementing
require the suspension of processing PI in certain circumstances.
the control framework. The GPO co-leads the cross-functional
GDPR also gives individuals the right to bring collective legal actions
Privacy Centre of Excellence (CoE), together with the Global
against GSK for failure to comply with data privacy laws.
Privacy Counsel. They are supported by Privacy Officers and Privacy
Context Counsel for each Region and multiple Country Privacy Advisors
(who are familiar with local privacy regulations).
Data Privacy laws are diverse, with limited harmonisation, despite
GSK has emphasised the importance of data privacy from an internal
Europe’s adoption of GDPR. In many countries in which GSK
risk management perspective by separating Privacy as a new,
operates, local data privacy laws govern how GSK can collect
standalone Enterprise Risk from the Information Security Enterprise
and use PI. It is challenging for multi-nationals to standardise their
Risk. It has created a Privacy Centre of Excellence in Global Ethics
approach to compliance with data privacy laws due to the high-level
and Compliance, which has overseen: (i) the implementation of a
of local variation. Governments are enforcing compliance with data
control framework; (ii) remediation of certain existing business
privacy laws more rigorously. There is an increasing focus on the
activities to ensure compliance with GDPR (including adopting
ethical use of PI, over and above compliance with data privacy laws,
privacy controls e.g. privacy contract terms, written records of
and individuals are increasingly aware of their rights under data
processing activities, data protection impact assessments) and (iii)
privacy laws.
a comprehensive training programme to drive greater awareness
and accountability for managing PI across the entire organisation.
Key roles of the privacy network at GSK will be certified with an
accredited international privacy association.
Through monitoring, we continuously improve our processes, such
as issue identification, reporting and handling capabilities. We are
developing a process to detect and assess new privacy regulations
to proactively prepare and mitigate regulatory risk to GSK.
Research practices
Risk definition Context
Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound preclinical and Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns. While we
clinical research. In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities attempt to address this proactively, animal studies remain a vital part
that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or of our research. In many cases, they are the only method that can be
the Group’s requirements, and failure to secure adequate patent used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living
protection for GSK’s products. body before it is studied in humans. Animal research can provide
critical information about the causes of diseases and how they
Risk impact
develop. Nonetheless, we are continually seeking ways in which
The impacts of the risk include harm to human subjects, reputational we can minimise our use of animals in research, whilst complying
damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our with regulatory requirements.
products, governmental investigation, legal proceedings brought Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess
against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs (product and demonstrate an investigational product’s efficacy and safety or
liability suits and claims for damages), loss of revenue due to further evaluate the product once it has been approved for marketing.
inadequate patent protection or inability to supply GSK products, We also work with human biological samples. These samples are
and regulatory action such as fines, penalties, or loss of product fundamental to the discovery, development and safety monitoring
authorisation. Any of these consequences could materially and of our products.
adversely affect our financial results and cause loss of trust from
our customers and patients.247
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Research practices continued
The integrity of our data is essential to success in all stages of The Chief Medical Officer oversees the following enterprise Medical
the research data lifecycle: design, generation, recording and Governance Boards:
management, analysis, reporting, storage and retrieval. Our
– The Human Subject Research Board is in place to provide
research data is governed by legislation and regulatory requirements.
oversight for the human subject research sponsored and
Research data and supporting documents are core components at
supported by us to ensure it conforms to ethical, medical and
various stages of pipeline progression decision-making and form the
scientific standards
content of regulatory submissions, publications and patent filings.
Poor data integrity can compromise our research efforts and – The Data Disclosure Board provides oversight for disclosure of
negatively impact company reputation. our sponsored and supported human subject research. We make
information available on our clinical studies, including summaries
There are innate complexities and interdependencies required
of the results – whether positive or negative. We were the first
for regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and
company to publish clinical study reports that form the basis of
development footprint. Continually changing and increasingly
submissions to regulatory agencies and we have publicly posted
stringent submission requirements continue to increase the
more than 2,400 clinical study reports in addition to more than
complexity of worldwide product registration.
6,400 study result summaries
Scientific engagement (SE), defined as the interaction and exchange
– Specific accountability and authorisation for SE is overseen by
of information between GSK and external communities to advance
the Scientific Engagement and Promotional Practices Board.
scientific and medical understanding, including the appropriate
This Board is responsible for oversight of applicable policies and
development and use of our products, is an essential part of
seeking to ensure the highest level of integrity and continuous
scientific discourse. Such non-promotional engagement with
development of SE
external stakeholder groups is vital to GSK’s mission and necessary
for scientific and medical advance. SE activities are essential but We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management (HBSM)
present legal, regulatory, and reputational risk if the sharing of data, governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful
invited media coverage or payments to HCPs have, or are perceived acquisition and management of human biological samples. Our
to have, promotional intent. HBSM Enterprise Risk Management Team champions HBSM
activities and provides an experienced group to support internal
A wide variety of biological materials are used by GSK in discovery,
sample custodians regarding best practice.
research and development phases. Through the Convention on
Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Nagoya Protocol, the international It remains an important priority to enhance our data integrity controls.
community has established a global framework regulating access Data Integrity Committees are in place to provide oversight and Data
to, and use of, genetic resources of non-human origin in Research Integrity Quality Assurance teams conduct assessments to provide
and Development (R&D). We support the principles of access and independent business monitoring of our internal controls for R&D
benefit sharing to genetic resources as outlined in the CBD and activities.
the Nagoya Protocol, recognising the importance of appropriate, The Regulatory Governance Board serves as the global regulatory
effective and proportionate implementation measures at national risk management and compliance board, promoting compliance with
and regional levels. regulatory requirements and procedures, and oversees Group-wide
Patent rights play an important role in providing GSK with a written standards for cross business regulatory processes.
competitive advantage in the market. Any loss of patent protection in We established an Access and Benefit Sharing Centre of Excellence
a market for GSK’s products developed through our R&D, including to oversee applicable requirements and enforcement measures for
reducing the availability or scope of patent rights, could materially the acquisition and use of genetic material of non-human origin in
and adversely affect our financial results in that market. Absence scope of the Nagoya Protocol.
of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection, which could
lead to, for example, competition from manufacturers of generic R&D maintains and controls pre-publication procedures to guard
pharmaceutical products, could limit the opportunity to rely on against public disclosure in advance of filing patent applications.
such markets for future sales growth for our products, which In addition, because loss of patent protection can occur due to lack
could also materially and adversely impact our financial results. of data integrity in preparing patent application data and information,
Following expiration of certain intellectual property rights, a generic legal experts collaborate with R&D to support the review process
manufacturer may lawfully produce a generic version of a product. for new patent applications.
Introduction of generic products typically leads to a rapid and The Research Practices risk is overseen by an Enterprise framework
dramatic loss of sales and reduces our revenues and margins for that seeks to ensure strengthened governance across the R&D
our proprietary products. businesses in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
Under the leadership of the Research Practices Enterprise Risk
Mitigating activities
Owner, management of the risk takes a pragmatic approach to
We have an established Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and information sharing, streamlining risk identification and escalation,
Strategy (OAWES), led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and while ensuring ownership stays with the business.
Strategy, that ensures the humane and responsible care of animals
and increases the knowledge and application of non-animal
alternatives. The OAWES provides a framework of animal welfare
governance, promotes application of 3Rs (replacement, refinement
and reduction of animals in research), conducts quality assessments
and develops and deploys strategies on animal model reproducibility
and translatability.248
GSK Annual Report 2018
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Third party oversight (TPO)
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight over To guide and enforce our global principles for interactions with
third party relationships and failure of third parties to meet their third parties we have a global policy framework applicable to buying
contractual, regulatory, confidentiality or other obligations. goods and services, managing our external spend, paying and
working with our third parties. This policy framework applies to all
Risk impact
employees and complementary workers worldwide. The enterprise-
Failure to adequately manage third party relationships could result in wide TPO programme takes an enterprise-wide view of third party
business disruption and exposure to risks ranging from sub-optimal related risks to ensure compliance with our ABAC policies and
contractual terms and conditions, to severe business and legal additional risks such as Labour Rights, Health and Safety and Human
sanctions and/or significant reputational damage. Any of these Safety Information. It forms a comprehensive and practical approach
consequences could materially and adversely affect our business to third party oversight that is flexible to the evolving nature of our
operations and financial results. business and the type of engagement being managed. The
programme is managed through the Global Ethics and Compliance
Context
organisation and has been globally deployed. It has strengthened
risk assessment, contractual terms and due diligence efforts on third
Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an integral
parties and improved the overall management of our third party risks
part of the solution to meeting our business objectives. We rely on
through the lifecycle of the third party engagement.
third parties, including suppliers, advisors, distributors, individual
contractors, licensees, and other pharmaceutical and biotechnology Programme governance is provided through Enterprise Risk
collaboration partners for discovery, manufacture, and marketing of Management overseen by the TPO Governance Board which
our products and for supporting other important business processes. includes representation from key functional areas and the business.
We have a dedicated TPO team responsible for the implementation
These business relationships present a material risk. For example,
and evolution of the programme in response to developments in the
we share critical and sensitive information such as marketing plans,
internal and external environment.
clinical data, and employee data with specific third parties who are
conducting the relevant outsourced business activities. Inadequate Each business leadership team retains ultimate accountability for
protection or misuse of this information by third parties could have managing third party interactions and risks. When working with third
significant business impact. Similarly, we use distributors and agents parties, our employees are expected to manage external interactions
in a range of activities such as promotion and tendering which and commitments responsibly. This expectation is embedded in our
have inherent risks such as inappropriate promotion or corruption. values and Code of Conduct. It is our responsibility that all activities
Insufficient internal compliance and controls by the distributors carried out on our behalf are performed safely and in compliance with
could affect our reputation. These risks are further increased by the applicable laws and our values, expectations, standards and Code
complexities of working with large numbers of third parties across of Conduct (See ABAC report above).
a diverse geographical spread.
Our programme is complemented with independent oversight and
assurance undertaken by the Audit & Assurance and Independent
Business Monitoring teams. We review the TPO programme against
other large multinational companies and use external expertise and
internal insights to drive improvements in the programme.
Environment, health & safety and sustainability (EHS&S)
Risk definition Context
Failure to manage environment, health & safety and sustainability We are subject to health, safety and environmental laws of various
(EHS&S) risks in line with our objectives and policies and with jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect people, the
relevant laws and regulations. environment, and the communities in which we operate, as well
as potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites. We have
Risk impact
also been identified as a potentially responsible party under the
Failure to manage EHS&S risks could lead to significant harm to US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
people, the environment and communities in which we operate, fines, Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to
failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements, our use or ownership of such sites in the US. Failure to manage
litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the Group’s reputation, these environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory
which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. action and additional remedial costs that may materially and
adversely affect our financial results. See Note 45 to the financial
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of the
environmental related proceedings in which we are involved. We
routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for such matters.249
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Environment, health & safety and sustainability (EHS&S) continued
Mitigating activities Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our Global
EHS&S standard which supports our EHS&S policy and our
The Corporate Executive Team (CET) is responsible for EHS&S
objective to discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our
governance under a global policy. Under that policy, the CET seeks
products without harming people or the environment. In addition
to ensure there is a control framework in place to manage the risks,
to the design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment,
impacts and legal compliance issues that relate to EHS&S and for
we operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards
assigning responsibility to senior managers for providing and
where practicable and protect employees’ health and well-being.
maintaining those controls. Individual managers seek to ensure that
the EHS&S control framework is effective and well implemented in Through our continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability
their respective business area and that it is fully compliant with all we have reduced our value chain carbon intensity per pack, water
applicable laws and regulations, adequately resourced, maintained, consumption and waste generation. We actively manage our
communicated, and monitored. Additionally, each employee is environmental remediation obligations and seek to ensure practices
personally responsible for ensuring that all applicable local standard are environmentally sustainable and compliant.
operating procedures are followed by them and expected to take
responsibility for EHS&S matters.
Information security
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The risk to GSK business activities if information becomes disclosed We have a global information protection policy and accompanying
to those not authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be information technology standards and processes that are supported
available or are corrupted, typically because of cybersecurity threats, through a dedicated team and programme of activity. Our Information
although accident or malicious insider-action may be contributory Protection function provides strategy, direction, and oversight,
causes. including active monitoring of cyber security, while enhancing
our global information security capabilities, through an ongoing
Risk impact
programme of investment that is in its sixth year.
Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and We assess changes in our information protection risk environment
information may result in loss of commercial or strategic advantage through briefings by government agencies, subscription to
and could materially affect our ongoing business operations, such commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing
as scientific research, clinical trials and manufacturing and supply with other pharmaceutical businesses and cross-industry bodies.
chain activities. Such changes are regularly reviewed by our Executive team and
Context our Board and suitable adjustments agreed.
We aim to apply industry best practices as part of our information
We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as corporate
security policies, processes and technologies and invest in strategies
strategic plans, intellectual property, manufacturing systems and
that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security threat
trade secrets. There is the potential that our computer systems or
landscape. This will include suitable levels of cyber-risk insurance
information may be exposed to misuse or unauthorised disclosure.
cover in future.
We believe that the cyber security incidents that we have
experienced to date have not resulted in significant disruptions to
our operations and have not had a significant adverse effect on our
results of operations, or on third parties. However, as the threats
evolve we cannot provide assurance that our significant efforts in
protecting and monitoring our systems and information will always
be successful in preventing compromise or disruption in future.
They increasingly involve highly-resourced threat actors such as
nation-states and organised criminals. Combined with the size and
complexity of our IT systems and those of our supply chain partners
(including outsourced operations), this means that our systems and
information have been, and are expected to continue to be, the
subject of cyber-attacks of various types.250
GSK Annual Report 2018
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Supply continuity
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product; Our supply chain model is designed to ensure the supply, quality
inability to respond effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to and security of our products globally, as far as possible. Through
recover and sustain critical operations, including key supply chains. the Supply Chain Governance Committees we closely monitor the
inventory status and delivery of our products, with the aim of ensuring
Risk impact
that customers have the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer
We recognise that failure to supply our products can adversely Healthcare products they need. Improved links between commercial
impact consumers and patients who rely on them. A material forecasting and manufacturing made possible by our core
interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes commercial cycle should, over time, reduce the risk associated with
could expose us to litigation or regulatory action and financial demand fluctuations and any impact on our ability to supply or the
penalties that could adversely affect the Group’s financial results. cost of write-offs where products exceed their expiry date. Each
The Group’s international operations, and those of its partners, node of the supply chain is periodically reviewed to ensure adequate
expose our workforce, facilities, operations and information safety stock, while balancing working capital in our end-to-end
technology to potential disruption from natural events (e.g. storm, supply chain. Particular attention is placed on mitigating supply
earthquake), man-made events (e.g. civil unrest, terrorism), and global risks associated with medically critical and high-revenue products.
emergencies (e.g. Ebola outbreak, flu pandemic). It is important that We routinely monitor the compliance of manufacturing external
we have robust crisis management and recovery plans in place to suppliers to identify and manage risks in our supply base. Where
manage such events. practical, we minimise our dependence on single sources of supply
Context for critical items. Where alternative sourcing arrangements are not
possible, our inventory strategy aims to protect the supply chain from
Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by unanticipated disruption.
various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our license to
We continue to implement anti-counterfeit systems such as product
operate. Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or
serialisation in accordance with emerging supply chain requirements
by suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or
such as the EU Falsified Medicines Regulation around the world.
regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption
of supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension A corporate policy requires each business and functional area
of manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing head to ensure effective crisis management and business continuity
or logistics issues. plans are in place that include authorised response and recovery
strategies, key areas of responsibility and clear communication
We rely on materials and services provided by third party suppliers
routes, before any business disruption occurs. Corporate Security
to make our products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients
supports the business by: coordinating crisis management and
(API), antigens, intermediates, commodities, and components for
business continuity training; facilitating simulation exercises;
the manufacture and packaging of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and
assessing our preparedness and recovery capability; and providing
Consumer Healthcare products. Some of the third party services
assurance oversight of our central repository of plans supporting
procured, such as services provided by contract manufacturing
our critical business processes.
and clinical research organisations to support development of key
products, are important to ensure continuous operation of our Each business performs risk oversight to assure adequate risk
business. mitigation including identifying new and emerging threats. We have
a coordinated approach to evaluate and manage the implications for
Although we undertake risk mitigation we recognise that certain
our business arising from Brexit. Our approach to Brexit is set out
events could nevertheless still result in delays or service interruptions.
on page 36.
We use effective crisis management and business continuity
planning to provide for the health and safety of our people and to These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and
minimise impact to us, by maintaining functional operations following response capability is maintained. We also develop and maintain
a natural or man-made disaster, or a public health emergency. partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity
Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk
Reduction, which helps improve our business continuity initiatives in
disaster-prone areas and supports the development of community
resilience to disasters.251
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholder information
Share capital and control
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares held Share buy-back programme
in Treasury as at 31 December 2018 can be found in Note 33 to The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares
the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share premium account’. under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association. The power
under Article 9 and the authority for the company to make purchases
Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities which are
and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
sought on an annual basis at our Annual General Meeting (AGM).
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS
Any shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or held
represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt and
as Treasury shares or used for satisfying share options and grants
where it is listed refer to Note 31 to the financial statements,
under Group employee share plans.
‘Net debt’.
Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive
to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority
dividends (when declared), the company’s Annual Report, to attend
renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2018, when the
and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies
company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just under
and to exercise voting rights.
497 million shares. Details of shares purchased, those cancelled,
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the holding, those held as Treasury shares and those subsequently transferred
of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements to obtain approval from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Group’s employee share
prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares or ADS carry any special plans are disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements, ‘Share
rights with regard to control of the company and there are no capital and share premium account’.
restrictions on voting rights. Major shareholders have the same
In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
voting rights per share as all other shareholders. There are no
considers the development of free cash flow during the year.
known arrangements under which financial rights are held by
No shares were purchased during the financial years ended 2015,
a person other than the holder of the shares and no known
2016, 2017 or 2018.
agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make
Shares acquired through the Group’s employee share plans rank
any market purchases in 2019. The company will review the
equally with the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
potential for future share buy-backs in line with its usual annual
The trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have
cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
waived their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts.
Market capitalisation
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2018 was £73.23 billion.
from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, decrees
At that date, GSK was the fifth largest company by market
or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import or export of
capitalisation in the FTSE index.
capital or affecting the remittance of dividends or other payments to
holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. Share price
2018 2017 2016
Similarly, other than certain economic sanctions which may be in £ £ £
force from time to time, there are no limitations relating only to At 1 January 13.23 15.62 13.73
non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s At 31 December 14.91 13.23 15.62
Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote (Decrease)/increase 12.7% (15.3)% 13.8%
in respect of, the company’s shares.
High during the year 16.22 17.22 17.23
Interests in voting rights Low during the year 12.43 12.76 13.44
Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. The
persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
company’s share price increased by 12.7% in 2018. This compares
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial
with a decrease in the FTSE 100 index of 12.5% during the year.
Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Disclosure Guidance and Transparency
The share price on 1 March 2019 was £15.10.
Rules (DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and
on the company’s website, www.gsk.com.
UK£ US$
The company had received notifications in accordance with the
18 75
FCA’s DTRs of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights
in the company’s issued share capital: 17 70
16 65
31 December 2018 1 March 2019
15 60
*Percentage *Percentage
No. of of issued No. of of issued 14 55
shares capital (%) shares capital (%)
13 50
BlackRock, Inc 348,328,939 7.02 359,325,075 7.24
12 45
* P ercentage of Ordinary shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares.
11 40
We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own
10 35
shares during the period under review, with the exception of those
transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Group’s 09 30
employee share plans. 31/12/15 31/12/16 31/12/17 31/12/18
UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)252
GSK Annual Report 2018
Shareholder information continued
Share capital and control continued
Nature of trading market
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
Pence per share US dollars per share
High Low High Low
March 2019* 1510 1510 40.39 40.39
February 2019 1558 1458 40.76 38.58
January 2019 1537 1436 39.38 37.83
December 2018 1513 1418 38.61 37.07
November 2018 1622 1480 41.87 38.84
October 2018 1558 1429 40.87 38.31
September 2018 1585 1484 40.53 38.99
Quarter ended 31 December 2018 1622 1418 41.87 37.07
Quarter ended 30 September 2018 1619 1484 41.87 38.99
Quarter ended 30 June 2018 1580 1378 41.94 38.85
Quarter ended 31 March 2018 1397 1243 35.49 39.38
Quarter ended 31 December 2017 1536 1276 41.10 34.66
Quarter ended 30 September 2017 1630 1452 42.77 38.68
Quarter ended 30 June 2017 1722 1550 44.37 40.68
Quarter ended 31 March 2017 1691 1520 42.73 38.72
Year ended 31 December 2018 1622 1243 41.94 35.49
Year ended 31 December 2017 1722 1276 44.37 34.66
Year ended 31 December 2016 1723 1345 45.49 37.39
Year ended 31 December 2015 1642 1238 48.81 37.56
Year ended 31 December 2014 1691 1324 56.66 41.30
Year ended 31 December 2013 1782 1359 53.68 43.93
* t o 1 March 2019
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2018
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 78,209 71.19 0.50 27,196,746
1,001 to 5,000 24,687 22.47 0.99 53,245,886
5,001 to 100,000 5,762 5.25 1.66 89,028,177
100,001 to 1,000,000 842 0.77 5.49 295,494,317
Over 1,000,000 355 0.32 91.36 4,914,102,498
109,855 100.00 100.00 5,379,067,624
Held by
Nominee companies 5,102 4.65 62.48 3,360,713,155
Investment and trust companies 24 0.02 0.02 1,210,233
Insurance companies 3 0.00 0.00 768
Individuals and other corporate bodies 104,724 95.33 12.45 669,844,173
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 0.00 17.34 932,693,345
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 7.71 414,605,950
The Bank of New York Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s ADS, which are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the
company’s ADS programme, which is managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY (Nominees) Limited. At 1 March 2019,
BNY (Nominees) Limited held 934,362,581 Ordinary Shares representing 18.81% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares) at
that date.
At 1 March 2019, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 974 with holdings of 994,696 Ordinary Shares, and the number of
registered holders of ADS was 21,197 with holdings of 467,181,290 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS were held by brokers
or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not representative of the number of
beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.253
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Dividends
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return cash The Board intends to maintain the dividend for 2019 at the current
to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends remain an level of 80p per share, subject to any material change in the external
essential component of total shareholder return and GSK recognises environment or performance expectations. Over time, as free cash
the importance of dividends to shareholders. The company aims to flow strengthens, it intends to build free cash flow cover of the
distribute regular dividend payments that will be determined primarily annual dividend to a target range of 1.25-1.50x, before returning the
with reference to the free cash flow generated by the business after dividend to growth. Details of the dividends declared, the amounts
funding the investment necessary to support the Group’s future and the payment dates are given in Note 16 to the financial
growth. statements, ‘Dividends’.
Dividends per share Dividend calendar
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS for the Ex-dividend
last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into US dollars at Quarter date Record date Payment date
applicable exchange rates. Q4 2018 21 February 2019 22 February 2019 11 April 2019
Q1 2019 16 May 2019 17 May 2019 11 July 2019
Year Dividend pence US$ Q2 2019 8 August 2019 9 August 2019 10 October 2019
2018 80 –1
Q3 2019 14 November 2019 15 November 2019 9 January 2020
2017 80 2.16
Q4 2019 20 February 2020 21 February 2020 9 April 2020
2016 80 2.00
2015 Special* 20 0.57
2015 80 2.37
2014 80 2.59
2013 78 2.47
1 The Q4 2018 interim ordinary dividend receivable by ADS holders will be calculated
based on the exchange rate on 11 April 2019. An annual fee of $0.03 per ADS
(or $0.0075 per ADS per quarter) will be charged by the Depository. The cumulative
dividend receivable by ADS holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2018 was $1.48.
* T he 2015 special dividend related to the return of part of the net cash proceeds from
the Novartis transaction completed in March 2015. This was paid with the fourth quarter
ordinary dividend for 2015.
Financial calendar
Results announcements
Event Date
Quarter 1 Results announcement May 2019
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
Annual General Meeting May 2019
and are available on its news service. They are also sent to the
Quarter 2 Results announcement July 2019 US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued
Quarter 3 Results announcement October 2019 to the media and made available on our website.
Preliminary/Quarter 4 Results announcement February 2020
Financial reports
Annual Report publication February/March 2020
Annual Report distribution March 2020
The company publishes an Annual Report which is made available
on our website from the date of publication. Shareholders may
Information about the company, including the share price, is available
elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
on our website at www.gsk.com. Information made available on the
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by
website does not constitute part of this Annual Report.
email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
www.shareview.co.uk.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK (see
page 256 for the contact details).254
GSK Annual Report 2018
Shareholder information continued
Annual General Meeting 2019
Our Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held at 2.30pm ADS holders wishing to attend the meeting should contact BNY
(UK time) on Wednesday 8 May 2019 at Sofitel London Heathrow, Mellon, as Depositary, to request a proxy appointment. This will
Terminal 5, London Heathrow Airport, TW6 2GD. enable them to attend and vote on the business to be transacted.
ADS holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the way in which the
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
shares represented by their ADS should be voted by completing
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business,
and returning the voting card provided by the Depositary.
there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of
the Group and its future development. There will be an opportunity
Documents on display
for questions to be asked to the Board. Chairs of the Board’s
Committees will take questions relating to those Committees.
The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’ service
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between
with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries (and any side
their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting. letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements) are
available for inspection at the company’s registered office and will
be made available for inspection at the AGM.
Tax information for shareholders
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax Taxation of capital gains
consequences for holders of shares and ADS who are citizens of
the UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete analysis of all UK resident shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the
the possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale disposal of shares or ADS.
of these securities. It is intended only as a general guide. Holders
For disposals by individuals in the 2018/19 UK tax year, a taxable
are advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax
capital gain accruing on a disposal of shares or ADS will be taxed
consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares
at 10% for basic rate taxpayers, or 20% if, after all allowable
or ADS and the consequences under state and local tax laws in
deductions, the individual’s taxable income for the year exceeds
the US and the implications of the current UK/US tax conventions.
the basic rate income tax limit. Note this is following the use of any
US holders of ADS generally will be treated as the owners of the exceptions available to the individual taxpayer such as the annual
underlying shares for the purposes of the current US/UK double exempt amount.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation allowance
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention),
which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent that such gains
and for the purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance may reduce a chargeable
amended (the Code).
gain but will not create an allowable loss. For assets acquired on or
before 1 January 2018, legislation in the Finance Act 2018 freezes
UK shareholders
the level of indexation allowance that is given in calculating a
company’s chargeable gains at the value that would apply to the
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds
disposal of an asset in December 2017. For assets acquired from
shares as capital assets.
1 January 2018 onwards, legislation in the Finance Act 2018
Taxation of dividends removes any indexation allowance on disposal.
Inheritance tax
For the UK tax year from 2018/19 UK resident individuals are entitled
to a dividend tax allowance of up to £2,000, so that the first £2,000
Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be liable
of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax. Dividends in
to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADS. Tax may
excess of this allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for basic rate
be charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholder’s
taxpayers, 32.5% for higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional
estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of lifetime gift or
rate taxpayers.
other disposal at less than full market value. In the case of a bequest
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note on death, tax may be charged on the value of the shares at the
that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally entitled to date of the shareholder’s death. If such a gift or other disposal
exemption from corporation tax. were subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax,
the Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for tax
paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK.255
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Tax information for shareholders continued
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the US
federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 40.8%. Some
UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to types of dividends are automatically excluded from being qualified
certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate of dividends, even if they meet the other requirements. These include
0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in the case of stamp duty) of the (but are not limited to):
consideration for the transfer. Notwithstanding this, provided that an
1. Capital gains distributions
instrument is executed in pursuance of the agreement that gave rise
to the charge to SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six 2. Dividends on bank deposits
years of the agreement (including being stamped as exempt) any
3. D ividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock
SDRT charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already
Ownership Plan (ESOP)
been paid will be repaid.
4. Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations
US shareholders
US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified dividends
may vary and would be assessed in addition to the federal tax rates
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or
communicated above.
resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that is
otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in Taxation of capital gains
respect of the shares or ADS) that holds shares or ADS as capital
assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax,
hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or
is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency. other disposal of shares or ADS. Such gains will be long-term capital
The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders gains (subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders) if
that are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt the shares or ADS were held for more than one year, from the date
entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, the shares were vested/released. Short-term capital gains can be
persons that hold shares or ADS as part of an integrated investment subject to taxation of rates of up to 40.8%, whereas long-term capital
(including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADS and one or more gains may be subject to rates of up to 23.8%. State and local tax
other positions, and persons that own (directly or indirectly) 10% rates on capital gains may also apply.
or more of the voting stock of the company, nor does it address tax
Information reporting and backup withholding
treatment that may be applicable as a result of international income
tax treaties.
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
Taxation of dividends ADS, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial
intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation
dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for the dividend or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification number
received deduction allowed to US corporations. Dividends on ADS and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred. Non-US
are payable in US dollars; dividends on Ordinary shares are payable holders generally are not subject to information reporting or backup
in Sterling. Dividends paid in Sterling will be included in income in withholding, but may be required to provide a certification of their
the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate non-US status in connection with payments received. Any amounts
on the day the dividends are received by the holder. Subject to withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US
certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual federal income tax liability provided the required information is
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
federal rate of 23.8% plus applicable state and local tax in respect of
Estate and gift taxes
qualified dividends. A qualified dividend as defined by the US Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) is a dividend that meets the following criteria:
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
1. M ust be issued by a US corporation, a corporation incorporated generally subject to UK inheritance tax. However, a US capital
in a US possession, or a corporation that is eligible for the shareholder may be subject to US Estate and Gift Tax.
benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty deemed
satisfactory, as published by the IRS. Stamp duty
2. T he dividends are not listed with the IRS as dividends that do
UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
not qualify.
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADS custodian or
3. T he required dividend holding period has been met. The shares depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
must have been owned by you for more than 60 days of the provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
‘holding period’ – which is defined as the 121-day period that no consideration).
begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or the day in which
However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the transfer
the stock trades without the dividend priced in. For example, if a
of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS.
stock’s ex-dividend date is 1 October, the shares must be held
for more than 60 days in the period between 2 August and 30
November of that year in order to count as a qualified dividend.256
GSK Annual Report 2018
Other statutory disclosures
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0371 384 2991 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose A DRIP election form can be downloaded
(DRIP) to reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. from www.shareview.co.uk or requested by
contacting Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank account If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through the A dividend bank mandate form can be
(Bank Mandate) post, you can instead have them paid directly into your bank downloaded from www.shareview.co.uk
or building society account. This is quicker, more secure and or requested by contacting Equiniti.
avoids the risk of your cheque going astray.
Dividend payment direct to bank Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, For more details on this service and the costs
account for overseas shareholders Equiniti will convert your dividend into your local currency involved please contact Equiniti.
and send it direct to your local bank account. This service is
available in over 100 countries worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications of You can register at www.shareview.co.uk
company communications including our Annual Report, dividend
payments (if paid by way of a Bank Mandate), access to
dividend confirmations and the availability of online voting for
all general meetings. Each time GSK mails out hard copy
shareholder documents you will receive an email containing
a link to the document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your You can register at www.shareview.co.uk
share balance and movements, update your address and dividend
payment instructions and register your votes for our AGM.
De-duplication of publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of mailings, you may have more Please contact Equiniti.
than one account. Please contact Equiniti and they will arrange
for your accounts to be merged into one for your convenience
and to avoid waste and unnecessary costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated form For online transactions, please log on to
(please note that market trading hours or held in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, online, by www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, telephone or by a postal dealing service provided by Equiniti For telephone transactions, please call
Monday to Friday (excluding public Financial Services Limited. 0345 603 7037 (in the UK) or
holidays in England and Wales)) +44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK).
For postal transactions, please call
0371 384 2991* to request a
dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without An application form can be requested
requiring a share certificate. The service provides a facility for from www.shareview.co.uk or by
you to hold your shares in a nominee account sponsored by the contacting Equiniti.
company. You will continue to receive dividend payments, annual
reports and can attend and vote at the company’s general
meetings. Shareholders’ names do not appear on the publicly
available share register and the service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Details are available from www.shareview.co.uk
Limited to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK or can be requested by telephoning Equiniti,
Ordinary Shares. on 0345 300 0430. Lines are open 8.00am
to 4.30pm for dealing, and until 6.00pm for
enquiries Monday to Friday (excluding public
holidays in England and Wales).
* UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales).
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.257
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholders services and contacts continued
ADS Depositary Contacts
The ADS programme is administered by The Bank of New York Investor relations
Mellon: Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services UK
PO Box 505000
980 Great West Road
Louisville, KY 40233-5000
Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
Overnight correspondence should be sent to: Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
US
462 South 4th Street, Suite 1600
Louisville, KY 40202 5 Crescent Drive
Philadelphia PA 19112
www.mybnymdr.com
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
Tel: +1 215 751 4611 (outside the US)
Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside the US)
email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com GSK Response Center
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT†, a direct ADS
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADS holders. Share scam alert
For details of how to enrol please visit www.mybnymdr.com or
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy
call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
your shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a
highly organised financial scam.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
Corporate PEPs If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Conduct
Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities,
The Share Centre Limited at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its consumer helpline:
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 141
Tel: +44 (0)20 7066 1000 (outside the UK)
www.share.com
* Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, except UK public
Donating shares to Save the Children holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with
Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the
aim of helping to save the lives of one million children.
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them
to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated and sold
by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to help them
reach the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares to
Save the Children free of charge.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement
to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent
financial adviser.258
GSK Annual Report 2018
Other statutory disclosures continued
US law and regulation
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the – they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock controls and procedures that ensure that material information is
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADS. made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of
these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results
NYSE rules of such evaluation being contained in the annual report on
Form 20-F
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US,
control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance
provided that we explain any significant variations. This explanation
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be accessed from the
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) EDGAR database or
generally accepted accounting principles
via our website. NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require us
to file annual and interim written affirmations concerning the Audit & – they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any
Risk Committee (ARC) and our statement on significant differences changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
in corporate governance. period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
company’s internal control over financial reporting, and they have
disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal control
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the US,
over financial reporting, to the external auditor and the ARC, all
Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Sarbanes-Oxley
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with financial
operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are
reporting and corporate governance.
reasonably likely to affect adversely the company’s ability to record,
As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a process, summarise and report financial information, and any fraud
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the (regardless of materiality) involving persons that have a significant
CFO and to the ARC. It is chaired by the Company Secretary and role in the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
the members consist of senior managers from finance, legal,
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and
corporate communications and investor relations.
with the participation of its management, including the CEO and
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Group’s
are invited to attend the Disclosure Committee’s meetings disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2018.
periodically. The Committee has responsibility for considering the
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
disclosure of that information. It has responsibility for the timely filing
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls
and Form 20-F. In 2018, the Committee met 26 times.
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F their control objectives.
contain a statement as to whether a member of the ARC is an audit
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and
committee financial expert as defined by Sarbanes-Oxley. Such
report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls
a statement for the relevant member of the ARC (Judy Lewent) is
and procedures in March 2019, following which the certifications
included in the Audit & Risk Committee report on page 79 and in
will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s Form 20-F.
her biography on page 70. Additional disclosure requirements arise
under section 302 and section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in respect Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal control
of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over over financial reporting
financial reporting. In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial the company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
reports Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the ‘Exchange Act’)):
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and – management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
the CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
– they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
– based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
contains no material misstatements or omissions
in accordance with IFRS
– based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
– management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the
the dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report
Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
on Form 20-F
Commission (COSO)
– there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
financial reporting during 2018 that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal
control over financial reporting259
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
US law and regulation continued
– management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control Because the Group does not regularly receive information regarding
over financial reporting as at 31 December 2018 and its the identity of its distributors’ downstream customers, it cannot
conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F, and establish the proportion of gross revenue or sales potentially
attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian government or
– Deloitte LLP, which has audited the consolidated financial
parties sanctioned for disclosable activities. As a result, the Group
statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018,
is reporting the entire gross revenues (£16.3 million) and net profits
has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control
(£7.8 million) from the Group’s sales to Iran in 2018.
over financial reporting under Auditing Standard 2201 of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical
Their audit report will be filed with the Group’s Form 20-F. facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by Hezbollah,
which is designated by the United States as a terrorist organisation.
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act Again, the Group does not deal directly with such facilities and sells
through distributors. The Group is also unable to identify with
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act (Section 13(r)) requires issuers certainty the degree or nature of any affiliation of the end customers
to make specific disclosure in their annual reports of certain types with Hezbollah, and the Group is unable to establish the proportion
of dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to reportable
government-owned entities, as well as dealings with entities entities. As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues
sanctioned for activities related to terrorism or proliferation of (£45.4 million) and net profits (£21.5 million) from the Group’s sales
weapons of mass destruction, even when those activities are not to Lebanon in 2018.
prohibited by US law and do not involve US persons. The Group
In addition to Section 13(r), US law also generally restricts dealings
exports certain pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer products
by US persons or persons which are subject to US jurisdiction with
to Iran, via sales by non-US entities, to two privately held Iranian
certain countries or territories that are subject to comprehensive
distributors.
sanctions. The Group does business, via non-US entities, in such
We do not believe that any of the Group’s direct dealings with jurisdictions targeted by sanctions laws, including Syria, Cuba,
Iran require specific disclosure under these requirements. North Korea and Crimea. While we believe the Group complies
The Group does not regularly receive information regarding the with all applicable US sanctions laws in all material respects,
identity of its distributors’ downstream customers in Iran, and such laws are complex and continue to evolve rapidly.
it is possible that these customers include entities, such as
government-owned hospitals and pharmacies, that are owned
or controlled directly or indirectly by the Iranian government or
by persons or entities sanctioned in connection with terrorism
or proliferation activities.
Donations to political organisations and political expenditure
With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach As a result, the definitions may cover legitimate business activities
to political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global not in the ordinary sense considered to be political donations or
policy to voluntarily stop all corporate political contributions. political expenditure, nor are they designed to support any political
party or independent election candidate.
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2018, the Group
did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations. Therefore, notwithstanding our policy, and while we do not intend to
make donations to any EU political parties or organisations, nor to
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with the
incur any EU political expenditure, we annually seek shareholder
Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue to support an
authorisation for any inadvertent expenditure.
employee-operated Political Action Committee (PAC) that facilitates
voluntary political donations by eligible GSK employees. The authority is a precautionary measure to ensure that the company
and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the legislation.
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts and
recipients of contributions are made by participating employees This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to £100,000
exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following the
contributions, which are subject to strict limitations. In 2018, a total introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act
of US$ 345,190 (2017 – US$ 384,875) was donated to political 2000. The authority has since been renewed annually.
organisations by the GSK employee PAC.
English law requires prior shareholder approval for political
contributions to EU political parties and independent election
candidates as well as for any EU political expenditure. The definitions
of political donations, political expenditure, and political organisations
used in the legislation are, however, quite broad. In particular, the
definition of EU political organisations may extend to bodies such as
those concerned with policy review, law reform, the representation of
the business community and special interest groups such as those
concerned with the environment, which the company and its
subsidiaries might wish to support.260
GSK Annual Report 2018
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint arrangements,
the address of the registered office and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2018 are disclosed below. Unless
otherwise stated the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary shares which are indirectly held by GlaxoSmithKline plc. The percentage
held by class of share is stated where this is less than 100%. Unless otherwise stated, all subsidiary companies have their registered office in
their country of incorporation. All subsidiary companies are resident for tax purposes in their country of incorporation unless otherwise stated.
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries
1506369 Alberta ULC Common 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
Action Potential Venture Capital Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Adechsa GmbH (iv) Ordinary c/o PRV Provides Treuhandgesellschaft AG, Dorfstrasse 38, Baar,
6341, Switzerland
Adriatic Acquisition Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Affymax Research Institute Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, 95833, United States
Alenfarma – Especialidades Farmaceuticas, Limitada (iv) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Allen & Hanburys Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 24 Abimbola Way, Ilasamaja, Isolo, Lagos, Nigeria
Allen Farmaceutica, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H. Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
Barrier Therapeutics, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Beecham Group p.l.c 20p Shares ‘A’; 5p Shares ‘B’ 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited Ordinary 38 Quality Road, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 618809, Singapore
Beecham Pharmaceuticals S.A. (iv) (vi) Nominative Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
Beecham Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos e Quimicos, Lda, Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Beecham S.A. (iv) Ordinary Parc de la Noire Epine, rue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. (iv) Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
Block Drug Company, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
Block Drug Corporation (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
Burroughs Wellcome & Co (Bangladesh) Limited Ordinary Fouzderhat Industrial Area, Dhaka Trunk Road, North Kattali, Chittagong
– 4217, Bangladesh
Burroughs Wellcome International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Cascan GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Castleton Investment Ltd (vi) Ordinary C/O DTOS, 19 Cybercity, 10th Floor Standard Chartered Tower,
Ebene, Mauritius
Cellzome GmbH Ordinary Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg, 69117, Germany
Cellzome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Cellzome Therapeutics, Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Cellzome, Inc. Common; Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Series A Preferred; Delaware, 19808, United States
Series B Preferred;
Series C-1 Convertible Preferred;
Series C-3 Convertible Preferred
Charles Midgley Limited (iv) Ordinary; 7% Cumulative Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Chiron Behring Vaccines Private Limited (vi) Ordinary 401-402, A, Wing, 4th Floor,Floral Deck Plaza, Opp Rolta Bhavan,
Central MIDC Road, Mumbai, Andheri (E), 400093, India
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Limited (iv) Ordinary; Preference (99.97%) 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Colleen Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Corixa Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Coulter Pharmaceutical, Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States261
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
de Miclén s.r.o. Ordinary Priemyselny Park Gena, Ul. E. Sachsa 4-6, 934 01, Levice, Slovakia
Dealcyber Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Desarrollo Energia Solar Alternativa S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Domantis Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Duncan Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 2266 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
Duncan Flockhart Australia Pty Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc. Common 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited Ordinary; Preference Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland
Eskaylab Limited 10p Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Etex Farmaceutica Ltda Social Capital Avenue Andres Bello 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago, C.P.
7550611, Chile
Ex-Lax, Inc. Common The Prentice Hall Corporation System, Puerto Rico, Inc., c/o Fast
Solutions, LLC, Citi Tower, 252 Ponce de Leon Avenue, Floor 20,
San Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico
Fipar (Thailand) Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Genelabs Technologies, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, CA, 95833, United States
Glaxo AS (iv) (vi) Ordinary Drammensveien 288, 1326 Lysaker, Norway
Glaxo Group Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (iv) Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (iv) Ordinary 82 Marine Road, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria
Glaxo Laboratories Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo New Zealand Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Properties BV Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (v) Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector 1, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 628413, Singapore
Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (iv) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ordinary Poligono Industrial Allendeduero, Avenida de Extremadura, 3, Aranda de
Duero, Burgos, 09400, Spain
Glaxo, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (iv) Ordinary 41 Creek Road, Apapa, Lagos, PMB 1401, Nigeria
Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited Ordinary; 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Ordinary B;
Ordinary C
Glaxochem Pte Ltd (v) Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline - Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. (vi) Ordinary 5th Floor DKSH Building, No.797 Preah Monivong Boulevard (Corner of
Street 484), Sangkat Phsar Deum Thakov, Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom
Penh, Cambodia
GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd Ordinary Room 901 - 910, Building A, Ocean International Center, 56 Mid 4th East
Ring Road, Bejing, Chaoyang District, China
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited Equity No 3 Building, 898 Halei Road, Zhang Jiang, Hi Tech Park Pudong New
Area, Shanghai, China
GlaxoSmithKline (Cyprus) Limited Ordinary Arch. Makariou III, 2-4, Capital Center, 9th Floor, Nicosia, P.C. 1505,
Cyprus
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ordinary 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 5th and 6th floors,
Zone 1, District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel
GlaxoSmithKline (Malta) Limited Ordinary 1, First Floor, De La Cruz Avenue, Qormi, QRM2458, Malta
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (iv) Ordinary Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe262
GSK Annual Report 2018
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E. Ordinary 266 Kifissias Avenue, Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
GlaxoSmithKline AB Ordinary Hemvarnsg. 9, Solna, 171 54, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline AG Ordinary Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada (vi) Quotas Luanda, Bairro Petrangol, Estrada de Cacuaco n° 288, Angola
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GlaxoSmithKline AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, 1326 Lysaker, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Asia Pvt. Limited Equity Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd. Ordinary No. 277 Niudun Road, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Ordinary 2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ordinary 637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ordinary; Preference Rue de l'Institut 89, B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Quotas Estrada dos Banderiantes, 8464, Rio de Janeiro, 22783-110, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Produtos para Consumo e Saude Ltda Quotas 66 BL1/302, Vitor Civita Street, Barra Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro,
22775-044, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street,
Suite 1300, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada Social Capital Avenue Andres Bello No. 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago,
C.P. 7550611, Chile
GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ordinary Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (China) Co. Ltd Ordinary Floor 8, 168 Xizangzhong Road, Huangpu District, Shanghai, China
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Hong Kong) Limited Ordinary Units 2201, 2214 and 23/F, Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road,
Harbour City, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Overseas) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 13th Floor, Unit 13.05 and 13.06 Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road,
Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) (No.1) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) IP Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (US) IP LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S Ordinary Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare AB (vii) Ordinary Nykaer 68, DK-2605, Brondby, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty ltd Ordinary 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Colombia SAS Ordinary Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Czech Republic s.r.o. Ordinary Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance No.2 Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finland Oy Ordinary Piispansilta 9A, Fin-02230, Espoo, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna,
A-1120, Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Greece Societe Ordinary 274 Kifissias Avenue Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
Anonyme
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited Ordinary A 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. Common 7333 Mississauga Road North, Mississagua, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland) Ordinary Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(No 3) Limited (ii) (v)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland) Ordinary Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(No.2) Unlimited Company (ii) (v)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments (Ireland) Ordinary 6900 Cork Airport Business Park, Kinsale Road, Cork, County Cork,
Limited (ii) (v) (vi) Ireland263
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ireland IP Limited (ii) (v) (vi) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Korea Co., Ltd. Ordinary 9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92, Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 04386,
Korea, Republic of
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare L.L.C. LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 17110, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Mexico, Ordinary Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo Huipulco,
S. De R.L. de C.V. Delegacion Tlalpan, Mexico, D.F. 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare New Zealand Limited Ordinary Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Norway AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, 1326 Lysaker, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 2266 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. Ordinary Via Zambeletti snc,Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Saudi Limited Ordinary 603 Salamah Tower 6th Floor, Madinah Road Al-Salamah District Jeddah
21425 Saudi Arabia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary Lot 89, Jalan Enggang, Ampang/Ulu Kelang Industrial Estate, Selangor,
54200, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Slovakia s. r. o. Ownership interest Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. Ordinary Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sri Lanka Holdings Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SRL Ordinary 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center One, 6th floor (Zone 2), District
5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Vietnam Company Limited Charter Capital Floor 16, Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1,
(iv) Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, Produtos para Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
a Saude e Higiene, Lda 1495-131, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. (iv) Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Private Limited Equity Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Costa Rica S.A. Ordinary San Jose 300 Este de la Rotonda Betania, Carretera a Sabanilla,
Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o Quotas Zmja od Bosne broj 7-7a, Sarajevo, 71000, Bosnia and Herzegovina
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o. Equity capital Ulica Damira Tomljanovica Gavrana 15, Zagreb, Croatia
GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd Ordinary Omladinskih brigada 88, New Belgrade, City of Belgrade, 11070, Serbia
GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (ii) Ordinary Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A. Ordinary Av 10 De Agosto N36-239, y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
GlaxoSmithKline Eesti OU Ordinary Lõõtsa 8a, Tallinn, 11415, Estonia
GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Avenida El Boqueron y Calle Izalco No 7 y 8 Parque Industrial El
Boqueron, Santa Elen, Antiguo Custatlan, La Libertad, El Salvador
GlaxoSmithKline EOOD Ordinary 115 G Tsarigradsko Shose Blvd., floor 9, Mladost Region, Sofia, 1784,
Bulgaria
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A. Ordinary Novena Avenida 0-09, Zona 4, Guatemala City, Guatemala
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO Ordinary Presnenskaya nab 10, Moscow, 123112, Russian Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare GmbH Ordinary Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare Ukraine O.O.O. Ownership interest Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS Ordinary Drammensveien 288, 1326 Lysaker, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street,
Suite 1300, Wilmington, Delaware, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Ireland) Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England264
GSK Annual Report 2018
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A. Ordinary Tegucigalpa, MDC, Honduras
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Class A Common; Class C Preference 7333 Mississauga Road North, Mississauga, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd. Ordinary 19 Par-La-Ville Road, Hamilton, HM11, Bermuda
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.3) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.4) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited A Ordinary; B Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa 2 Parque Tecnológico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Holdings Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Services Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Ireland) Limited (ii) (v) (vi) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ordinary 9F LS Yongsan Tower 92, Hangangdae-ro Yongsan-gu, Seoul, 04386,
Republic of Korea
GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Latvia SIA Ordinary Duntes iela 3, Riga, Latvia
GlaxoSmithKline Lietuva UAB Ordinary Ukmerges st. 120, Vilnius, LT-08105, Lithuania
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary Units 2201, 2214 and 23/F, Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road,
Harbour City, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary Likoni Road, PO Box 78392, Nairobi, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA Ordinary Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A. Ordinary 42-44 Angle Bd, Rachidi et Abou Hamed El Glaza, Casablanca, Morocco
GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Limited Ordinary H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico S.A. de C.V. Ordinary A; Calzada, Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo, Huipulco,
Ordinary B Delegacion Tlalpan, 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ordinary Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ordinary Piispansilta 9A, P.O. Box 24, Espoo, FIN-02230, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Panama S.A. Ordinary Urbanizacion Industrial Juan D, Calles A Y B, Republic of Panama,
Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Paraguay S.A. Ordinary Oficial Gilberto Aranda 333, Planta Alta casi Salvador del Mundo,
Asuncion, Paraguay
GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A. Ordinary Av. Javier Prado Oeste, 995, San Isidro, LIMA 27, Peru
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ordinary Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited Ordinary L.R. NO. 209/6921, 5th Floor, Icea Lion Centre, Riverside Park West
Wing, Chiromo Road, Westlands P.O. Box 10643-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Semangat, Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, 46300, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd Ordinary 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Suzhou) Limited Ordinary No 40 Su Hong Xi Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, 215021, China
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A Ordinary 300 metros al este de la Rotonda de la Betania, Mercedes de Montes de
Oca, Sabanilla, Montes de Oca, San Jose, Costa Rica265
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ordinary A; Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
Ordinary B;
Ordinary C;
Ordinary D
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Ordinary Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC Chartered Capital Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Common 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. Common Centro Internacional de Mercadeo, 90 Road # 165, Tower II, Suite 800,
Guaynabo, 00968, Puerto Rico
GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A. Ordinary Av. Lope de Vega No. 29, Torre Empresarial Novocentro, Local 406,
Ensanche Naco, Santo Domingo, Distrito Nacional, Dominican Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ordinary Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ordinary Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Services Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline SL Holdings, LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (iv) Partnership 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Slovakia s.r.o. Ordinary Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Ordinary Leningradskiy Prospect, 37A, bld. 4, Moscow, 125167, Russian
Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (ii) (v) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Tuketici Sagligi Anonim Sirketi Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok, 1.Levent, Istanbul,
34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L. Ordinary Immeuble Les Quatres R, Rue du Lac Lochness, Berges du Lac, Tunis,
Tunisia
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A. Registered shares provisory stock Salto 1105, CP 11.200 Montevideo, Uruguay
GlaxoSmithKline US Trading Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ordinary Urbanizacion La Trinidad, Calle luis De Camoems, Edif No 115-117
Apatado Posta, Caracas, 1010, Venezuela
GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (iv) (vi) Equity capital The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi Street, District 1, 7th Floor Unit 701,
Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
GlaxoSmithKline-Consumer Hungary Limited Liability Company Membership H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GlycoVaxyn AG (vi) Common; Preferred A; Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland
Preferred B; Preferred C
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ordinary 23 Rue françois Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
GSK Australia NVD Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Semangat, Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, 46300, Malaysia
GSK Capital K.K. Ordinary 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
GSK CH Argentina S.A. Nominative non endorseable ordinary shares Tucumán 1, piso 4, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA, Argentina
GSK CH Kazakhstan LLP Charter Capital 32 A Manasa Str., Bostandyk District, Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan
GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o. Ordinary ul. Rzymowskiego 53, Warsaw, 02-697, Poland
GSK Consumer Health, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Israel Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, Petech Tikva 49510, Israel
GSK Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary Route de I'Etraz 2, 1197 Prangins, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Schweiz AG Ordinary Suurstoffi 14, Rotkreuz, 6343, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Services, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GSK Consumer Healthcare Singapore Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 23 Rochester Park, 139234, Singapore266
GSK Annual Report 2018
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana Ordinary Ameriška ulica 8,Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia
GSK Finance (No 2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GSK Kazakhstan LLP Partnership Interest 273, N. Nazarbayev ave., Almaty, Medau District, 050059, Kazakhstan
GSK Pharmaceutical Trading SA (iv) (vi) Ordinary 5 Poienelor Street, Brasov, Romania
GSK Services Sp z o.o. Ordinary Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
GSK Vaccines BV Ordinary Hullenbergweg 85, Amsterdam, 1101 CL, Netherlands
GSK Vaccines GmbH Ordinary Emil-von-Behring-Str.76, 35041 Marburg, Germany
GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH (iv) Ordinary Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 27, Holzkirchen, 83607, Germany
HGS France S.a.r.l. (iv) (vi) Ordinary 117 Avenue, Victor Hugo, Boulogne-Billancourt, 92100, France
Horlicks Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Common 2323 du Parc Technologique, Québec, PQ, G1P 4R8, Canada
ID Biomedical Corporation of Washington (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (iv) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH Quotas Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
Iodosan S.p.A. Ordinary Via Zambeletti snc,Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
J&J Technologies, LC (iv) LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, Bank of America, 16th Floor,
1111 East Main Street, Richmond, Virginia, 23219, United States
Kuhs GmbH Ordinary Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoires Paucourt (iv) Ordianry 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratoires Saint-Germain (iv) Ordianry 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V. Ordinary A, Calzada Mexico Xochimilco, 4900 San Lorenzo Huipulco, District Federal
Ordinary B Mexico, 14370, Mexico
Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (iv) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA Ordinary Calle Luis de Camoens, Edificio GlaxoSmithKline, No. 115-117,
Urb. La Trinidad, Caracas, Venezuela
Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda. Ordinary Rua Professor Joao Cavalheiro Salem 1077, Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, Brazil
Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (iv) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Maxinutrition Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
Mixis Genetics Limited (vi) Ordinary; Ordinary Euro 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd Ordinary Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland
Montrose Pharma Company Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary Quota H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
N.C.H. – Nutrition Consumer Health Ltd (iv) Ordinary 14 Hamephalsim St, Petach Tikva, Israel
Okairos AG (in liquidation) Common; Preferred A; Preferred B c/o OBC Suisse AG, Aeschenvorstadt 71, 4051, Basel, Switzerland
P.T. Sterling Products Indonesia A shares; B Shares Graha Paramita Building, 5th F, Jalan Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Jakarta,
12940, Indonesia
Panadol GmbH Ordinary Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
Penn Labs Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
PT GSK Consumer Healthcare Indonesia Ordinary Graha Paramita 5th F, Jl. Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Kuningan, Jakarta,
12940, Indonesia
PT. Bina Dentalindo (in liquidation) Ordinary Gedung Graha Ganesha Lantai 3, Jl Raya Bekasi Km 17, No5, Jakarta
Timur 13930, Indonesia
S.R. One International B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg, 62 3705, LZ Zeist, Netherlands
S.R. One, Limited Units (Common) Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 17110, United States267
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Setfirst Limited Ordinary; Preference 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
LDA (iv) 1495-131, Portugal
SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (iv) Ordinary 14, Topkhana Road, Segunbagicha, Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh
SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (ii) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited Non-cumulative non-redeemables; Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Limited (ii) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Biologicals US Partnership Partnership Interest Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C. Quotas Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
SmithKline Beecham Inter-American Corporation (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Limited Ordinary 6.25p 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Services Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Trustees Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Port Louis Limited (vi) Ordinary C/o CIM Corporate Services Ltd, Les Cascades Building, Edith Cavell
Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
SmithKline Beecham Research Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham S.A. Ordinary Ctra de Ajalvir Km 2.500, Alcala de Henares, Madrid, 28806, Spain
SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan Trustee Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Limited (iv)
Stafford-Miller (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary Clocherane, Youghal Road, Dungarvan, Co. Waterford, Ireland
Stafford-Miller Limited Ordinary; Non-Cumulative Non 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Redeemable Preference
Sterling Drug (Malaya) Sdn Berhad Ordinary Lot 89, Jalan Enggang, Ampang/Ulu Kelang Industrial Estate, Selangor,
54200, Malaysia
Sterling Products International, Incorporated (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Stiefel Consumer Healthcare (UK) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Stiefel Distributors (Ireland) Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Dominicana, S.R.L. (iv) (vi) Ordinary Ave. Lope de Vega #29, Torre NovoCentro, Local 406, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
Stiefel Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Stiefel India Private Limited Equity 401-402, A, Wing, 4th Floor, Floral Deck Plaza, Opp Rolta Bhavan,
Central MIDC Road, Mumbai, Andheri (E), 400093, India
Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, County Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Laboratories (Maidenhead) Ltd (vi) Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories Legacy (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Laboratories Limited (iv) Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited (iv) Ordinary 103 Gul Circle, 629589, Singapore268
GSK Annual Report 2018
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Stiefel Maroc SARL (iv) (vi) Ordinary 275 Boulevard Zerktouni, Casablanca, Morocco
Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel West Coast LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Strebor Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Tempero Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Series A Preference; Series B Preference; Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Common Delaware, 19808, United States
The Sydney Ross Co. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (iv) Ordinary Level 8, Symphony House, Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A/46,
Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, 47301, Malaysia
Vog AU PTY LTD (iv) Ordinary; Redeemable Preference 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Consumer Products Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Developments Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Wellcome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Operations Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E. New Monetary Shares 90.7 El Salam City 11491, PO Box 3001, Cairo, Egypt
(99.5%)
Beecham Enterprises Inc. (iv) Common 88 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Biddle Sawyer Limited Equity 75 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
British Pharma Group Limited (i) Capital (50%) 50 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Galvani Bioelectronics Inc. Common 55 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Galvani Bioelectronics Limited A Ordinary; 55 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
B Ordinary (0%)
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Ordinary 75 PO Box 22617, Area No 73 to 156, Warehouse City, First Stage Al
Khomrah, Jeddah 21416, Saudi Arabia
Glaxo Wellcome Ceylon Limited Ordinary; 99.6 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
Ordinary B
GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd Ordinary 90 No. 65, the Fifth Avenue, Tai Feng Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic and
Technolog, Tianjin, 300457, China
GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A. Ordinary 99.99 Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Wilaya de Boumerdes, Algeria
GlaxoSmithKline Bangladesh Limited (vi) Ordinary (82%) 82 Fouzderhat Industrial Area, Dhaka Trunk Road, North Kattali,
Chittagong – 4217, Bangladesh
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (vi) Ordinary 72.5 Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pakistan Limited Ordinary (85.8%) 85.8 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. Partnership Capital 88 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (iii) Ordinary (46.4%) 46.4 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline OTC (PVT.) Limited Ordinary 85.8 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi,
74000, Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ordinary (82.6%) 82.6 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000, Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Equity (75%) 75 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400030, India
GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E. Ordinary (91.2%) 91.2 Boomerang Office Building - Land No. 46, Zone (J) – 1st District, Town
Center – 5th Tagammoe, New Cairo City, Egypt269
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GSK-Gebro Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 60 Bahnhofbichl 13, 6391 Fieberbrunn, Kitzbühel, Austria
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. Ordinary 78.3 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C. Quotas (98.2%) 98.2 Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
P.T. SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals A Shares; B Shares (0%) 99 Jl. Pulobuaran Raya, Kav. III DD/2,3,4, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung,
Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
PHIVCO Jersey II Limited (iv) (v) (vi) Ordinary 78.3 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey
PHIVCO Jersey Limited (iv) (v) (vi) Ordinary 78.3 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey
PHIVCO UK II Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
PHIVCO UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
PHIVCO-1 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
PHIVCO-2 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia A Shares; B Shares (0%) 95 Jl Pulobuaran Raya Kav III DD/, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung, Timur,
Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare LLC (iv) Common Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ordinary (55%) 55 Cheng Lin Zhuang Industrial Zone, Dong Li District, Tianjin, 300163,
China
SmithKline Beecham (Private) Limited Ordinary (99.6%) 99.6 World Trade Center, Level 34, West Tower, Echelon Square, Colombo 1,
Sri Lanka
SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O. Participation Interest (97%) 97 Leningradskiy Prospect, 37A, bld. 4, Moscow, 125167, Russian
Federation
Stiefel Egypt LLC (iv) Quota (99%) 99 Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary 78.3 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
ViiV HealthCare BV Ordinary 78.3 Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
ViiV Healthcare Company Common 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ViiV Healthcare Finance 1 Limited (vi) Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary; Redeemable 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Preference
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
ViiV Healthcare Hong Kong Limited (iv) Ordinary 78.3 23/F Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road, Harbour City, Tsimshatsui,
Kowloon, Hong Kong
ViiV Healthcare Kabushiki Kaisha Ordinary 78.3 1-8-1 Akasaka Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
ViiV Healthcare Limited Class A Shares, Deferred; 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Class B Shares (0%);
Class C Shares (0%);
Class D1 (0%);
Class D2 (0%);
Class E 5%
Cumulative Preference (0%)
ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd Ordinary 78.3 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Centro International de Mercadeo, 90 carr. 165 Torre 2, Suite 800,
Guaynabo, 00968, Puerto Rico
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. Quota 78.3 Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
ViiV Healthcare SAS Ordinary 78.3 23 rue François Jacob, 92500, Rueil-Malmaison, France
ViiV Healthcare sprl Ordinary 78.3 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC (iv) Participation Interest 78.3 Leningradskiy Prospect, 37A, bld. 4, Moscow, 125167, Russian Federation
ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.2) Limited (v) (vi) Ordinary 78.3 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.5) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.6) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England270
GSK Annual Report 2018
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare ULC Common 78.3 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
ViiV Healthcare Venture LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
ViiVHIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda Quota 78.3 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited (iv) Ordinary 46.4 2A Association Avenue, Ilupeju Industrial Estate, Lagos, PO Box 3199,
Nigeria
Zhejiang Tianyuan Bio-Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. Ordinary 95 No. 56, Tian He Road, Yuhang Economic Development Zone, Hangzhou,
Zhejiang Province, China
Associates
Apollo Therapeutics LLP Partnership Interest (25%) 25 Gunnels Wood Road, Stevenage SG1 2FX, England
Calci Medica Inc. Series A and Junior 43.3 505 Coast Boulevard South, Suite 202, La Jolla, CA 92037,
Preferred (33.9%) United States
GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc. Common (40%) 40 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP Partnership Interest (25%) 25 3 Burlington Gardens, London W15 3EP, England
Innoviva, Inc. Common (31.7%) 31.7 2000 Sierra Point Parkway, Suite 500, Brisbane, CA 94005,
United States
Japan Vaccine Distribution Co., Ltd Ordinary (50%) 50 6 Yobancho, Chiyoda-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
Kurma Biofund II, FCPR Partnership Interest (32%) 32 24 Rue Royale, 5e étage, 75008 Paris, France
Longwood Founders Fund LP Partnership Interest (28%) 28 The Prudential Tower, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1555, Boston,
MA 02199, United States
Medicxi Ventures I LP Partnership Interest (26.2%) 26.2 25 Great Pulteney Street, Soho, London W1F 9ND, England
Joint Ventures
Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Limited (vi) Equity Shares (50%) 50 708/718, 7th Floor, A Wing, Sagar Tech Plaza, Saki Naka, Andheri East,
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400072, India
Japan Vaccine Co., Ltd. (vi) Ordinary 50 6 Yonbancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Japan Vaccine Distribution Co., Ltd. (vi) Ordinary 50 6 Yonbancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Qualivax Pte. Limited Ordinary 50 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898 Singapore
Quell Intellectual Property Corp., LLC (iv) Membership Interest 50 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Qura Therapeutics, LLC Units 50 Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington,
Delaware, 19808, United States
Key
(i) Directly owned by GlaxoSmithKline plc. (iv) Dormant company.
(ii) E xempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (v) Tax resident in the UK.
(Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions noted in Section 357 of that Act. (vi) Entity expected to be disposed of or removed.
(iii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the (vii) Incorporated in Sweden.
Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.271
GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) R eceipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Novartis transaction The three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving the Consumer Healthcare,
Vaccines and Oncology businesses completed on 2 March 2015.
Ordinary Share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how it
has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.272
GSK Annual Report 2018
Index
Page Page
Accountability 79 Investor relations 257
Accounting principles and policies 146 Key accounting judgements and estimates 151
Acquisitions and disposals 191 Key performance indicators 08
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating Leadership and effectiveness 72
cash flows 189 Legal proceedings 215
Affordability and availability 26 Major restructuring costs 158
Annual General Meeting 2019 254 Modern employer 28
Approach to Brexit 36 Movements in equity 187
Approach to tax 43 Net debt 184
Assets held for sale 173 New accounting requirements 152
Associates and joint ventures 160 Nominations Committee Report 77
Audit & Risk Committee Report 79 Non-controlling interests 195
Business model 12 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 41
Cash and cash equivalents 172 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 112
Cash generation and conversion 56 Non-financial information statement IFC
CEO’s statement 03 Notes to the financial statements 144
CFO’s statement 38 Operating profit 157
Chairman’s statement 02 Other intangible assets 168
Chairman’s Governance statement 66 Other investments 170
Chairman’s Remuneration annual statement 96 Other non-current assets 171
Commitments 197 Other non-current liabilities 184
Consolidated balance sheet 141 Other operating income/(expense) 156
Consolidated cash flow statement 143 Other provisions 183
Consolidated income statement 140 Our Board 68
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 142 Our long-term priorities 07
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 140 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 174
Consumer Healthcare 21 Pharmaceuticals 13
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 240 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Contingent consideration liabilities 194 intellectual property 238
Contingent liabilities 186 Pipeline 235
Corporate Executive Team 71 Post balance sheet events 218
Corporate governance 65 Presentation of the financial statements 144
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 92 Principal Group companies 214
Critical accounting policies 63 Principal risks and uncertainties 241
Data and engagement 31 Property, plant and equipment 165
Directors and senior management 119 Quarterly trend 224
Directors’ interests in shares 113 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 190
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 126 Registrar 256
Dividends 164,253 Related party transactions 189
Donations to political organisations and Relations with stakeholders 89
political expenditure 259 Reliable supply 29
Earnings per share 164 Remuneration governance 110
Employee costs 158 2017 Remuneration policy summary 120
Employee share schemes 212 Remuneration report 98
Environment 32 Reporting framework 40
Ethics and values 30 Risk management 34
Exchange rates 153 Science and technology 25
Executive Director remuneration 98 Science Committee report 91
Finance expense 160 Share capital and control 251
Finance income 159 Share capital and share premium account 186
Financial calendar 253 Shareholder information 251
Financial instruments and related disclosures 198 Shareholder services and contacts 256
Financial performance 04 Stakeholder engagement 11
Financial position and resources 58 Taxation 161
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Tax information for shareholders 254
under UK GAAP 219 Trade and other payables 173
Five year record 229 Trade and other receivables 172
Glossary of terms 271 Treasury policies 62
Goodwill 166 Trust 24
Group companies 260 Turnover and segment information 153
Group financial review 37 US law and regulation 258
Independent Auditor’s report 128 Vaccines 18
Industry trends 09 Vaccine products, competition and intellectual property 239
Inventories 171 Viability statement 44
Investments in associates and joint ventures 170GSK Annual Report 2018
About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as an English Brand names
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report
public limited company on 6 December 1999. We were are trade marks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK
or associated companies, with the exception of Cialis owned
formed by a merger between Glaxo Wellcome plc and by Eli Lilly and Company, Gardasil owned by Merck Sharp &
Dohme Corp. and Rituxan owned by Biogen MA Inc. Zofran
SmithKline Beecham plc. GSK acquired these two owned by Novartis AG Trumenba owned by Pfizer Inc. and
Volibris owned by Gilead Science.
English companies on 27 December 2000 as part
Acknowledgements
of the merger arrangements. Design
Friend www.friendstudio.com
Printing
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
FSC certified and Carbon Neutral.
and the New York Stock Exchange.
Paper
This Annual Report is printed on Revive 100 Silk,
a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification.
Read more at www.gsk.com
All pulps used are made from 100% de-inked,
paper waste and are elemental chlorine free.
The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and
EU Ecolabel certificates for environmental management.
Download PDFs:
Annual Report 2018
Form 20-F
Cautionary statement regarding The information in this document does not constitute an They also assume that the proposed Consumer Healthcare
forward-looking statements offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GlaxoSmithKline nutrition disposal closes by the end of 2019 and the
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other proposed Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture with Pfizer
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including investment activities. Past performance cannot be relied closes during H2 2019 and that the integration and
this document and written information released, or oral upon as a guide to future performance. Nothing in this investment programmes following the Tesaro acquisition
statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast. and the proposed Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. with Pfizer over this period are delivered successfully.
F e i s a ‘ md pt sxo ere lp ar i ‘ an cw ae n nt t nc ’i la , if y t nt yr ‘i a bd ct g t ot ei- hi p i ol l nho e ian e iso t css veek t o e’oo i , n’sn rr ‘ at ng e ia cf n e so ts a d ce trt l ie tmma oo ic ot tr aee a h ntn cm s e e wt ut ’ re ss ,r i n wr ‘ tbo ee ht oys xf n ap r f ttg du nh efi st yaev cu ce t a dr f ’ tae , n it s sch ‘ d.e i c nte Tv utt t ee hG eh srn e na smr t y d ito s o st ’u u. , nh p s oA ‘ e w oe’ fns y f i s w ldi fc l in ’ um,ou o v t‘r r i ue p lnr d a rse ro es rotn t o j st err ue cc cl taa ’h ,t n e A I p a m r pn es ies a pvo srs er ei uu kou n lm et id nm uli t n p ees2p i t sn 0 aiit n og nai 1 o n w n d6tn s dh - h rs 2 ae ei fi cb 0 sr ne he o t2x a r l u t0p una ht ce , ct ee tt tc ih h a uGd t ee l ra i b rt nt hG oo i eo ge u nrn 2 a po p es0 lu rt fio oh1 f p to pc g6 s r h ea r- f a22 a r r re a o ms00 t m 1 s2 e mm9 e s0 i ea c t aa sd so t nn o .eu cdd r t u,c l tt rto e hh h ro er ee et nk a dfi d ti nv ei pfe f l oie- v ry r e tee fr ona y l tr io of , M R t t i cnh h o& ve ea neD t p o se s tur o th ai mta ta nle ol v e tnc e o n cto k tib ua s dm re lt reds e ea c en nf y io v s cf ber a i y oeli c on bn t apv o s afe m .r sf s e e T ie st d c hm n t (ei et 2ne do e 0tn o p x 1t b pt 6ti yn ih eo - ae c 2n n d t 0e se ad w 2x ti in ip t 0o i p e ot n ohr c n so e ut a d a a tlG l tu r odi eoc r oa ont g kt us al ia avp -gu e td’ sin n 2rv i c 0pe v oh en 1i npe n. 5 e as G Rl C ia ni &v En ee Dd R,n ) .
operating or financial performance. In particular, these For the Group specifically, over the period to 2020, GSK Subject to material changes in the product mix, the Group’s
include statements relating to future actions, prospective expects further declines in sales of Seretide/Advair. The medium-term effective tax rate is expected to be around
products or product approvals, future performance or introduction of a generic alternative to Advair in the US has 19% of Adjusted profits. This incorporates management’s
results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, been factored into the Group’s assessment of its future best estimates of the impact of US tax reform on the Group
expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal performance. The Group assumes no premature loss of based on the information currently available. As more
proceedings, and financial results. Other than in exclusivity for other key products over the period. information on the detailed application of the US Tax Cuts
accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations and Jobs Act becomes available, the assumptions
(including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure The assumptions for the Group’s revenue, earnings and underlying these estimates could change with consequent
and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct dividend expectations assume no material interruptions adjustments to the charges taken that could have a material
Authority), the Group undertakes no obligation to update to supply of the Group’s products, no material mergers, impact on the results of the Group.
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of acquisitions or disposals, except for the acquisition of
new information, future events or otherwise. The reader Tesaro, the proposed divestment of Horlicks and other Notice regarding limitations on
should, however, consult any additional disclosures that Consumer Healthcare products to Unilever and the Director Liability under English Law
the Group may make in any documents which it publishes proposed formation of a new Consumer Healthcare Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits
and/or files with the SEC. All readers, wherever located, Joint Venture with Pfizer, all announced in December 2018, the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and
should take note of these disclosures. Accordingly, no no material litigation or investigation costs for the Company omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see page
assurance can be given that any particular expectation (save for those that are already recognised or for which 94), the Strategic report and the Remuneration report.
will be met and shareholders are cautioned not to place provisions have been made), no share repurchases by Under English law the Directors would be liable to the
undue reliance on the forward-looking statements. the Company, and no change in the Group’s shareholdings company, but not to any third party, if one or more of these
in ViiV Healthcare. The assumptions also assume no reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, material changes in the macro-economic and healthcare knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a
inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to environment. The 2019 guidance and 2016-2020 outlook material fact, but would otherwise not be liable. Pages 65
factors that are beyond the Group’s control or precise have factored in all divestments and product exits since to 94, 126 to 127, and 241 to 270 inclusive comprise the
estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of 2015, including the divestment and exit of more than Directors’ Report, pages 01 to 64 inclusive comprise the
important factors, including those in this document, could 130 non-core tail brands (£0.5 billion in annual sales) as Strategic report and pages 95 to 124 inclusive comprise
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed announced on 26 July 2017 and the product divestments the Remuneration report, each of which have been drawn
or implied in any forward-looking statement. planned in connection with the proposed Consumer up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed Healthcare transaction with Pfizer. English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in
u 2n 5d 0e or f‘ P thr ii sn c Aip na nl u r ais l k Rs e a pn od rt u . Anc ne y r ft oa ri wnt aie rds’ - o lon o p kia ng ge ss t a2 t4 e1 m t eo n ts T Gh re o uG pr ’so u inp t’ es g e rx ap tie oc nt a at nio dn rs e sa ts rs uu cm tue ri ns gu c pc lae ns ss f ou vl ed re tl hiv ee r py e o rif o t dh e c limon itn ae tic ot nio sn a w ndit h re t sh te ris ce ti ore np so pr rts o vs ih da el dl b be y s su ub cj he c lat w to . the
made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date 2016-2020, including the extension and enhancement to Website
t i Anh nfe o ny r u ma ar a le t R im o ena p d oae v rta .a iln ad b la er e to b ta hs ee Dd i ru ep co ton r t sh oe nk n tho ew dle ad teg e o fa tn hd is t w 2h 5ee l Jlc uao ls ym t 2hb 0ein 1 ne 8ed . w p r mo ag jr oa rm rem se tr a un cn tuo ru inn gc e pd la o nn a 2 nn6 o J uu nly c 2 ed0 1 o7 n a s G o inn S t htK h ise’s A Gw nre nob uus api lt . e RN ew o ptw oww ri tt . h tg oss t Gk a. nc Sdo Kim n ’sg g wti hv ee e bs r s ea itfd eed ,r e nit n oio c nn e ea s l o wi fn tef ho emrm aa kt eio n
A number of non-IFRS measures are used to report the information made available on the website constitutes
performance of our business. These measures are defined part of this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be
on pages 40 to 42 and a reconciliation of Adjusted results to incorporated by reference herein.
Total results is set out on page 51.Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 Search for us here
Registered number: 3888792
www.gsk.com