Annual Report 2016
2016 saw good sales momentum
across Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines
and Consumer Healthcare
and further pipeline progressWe are a global science-led
healthcare company.
Our three world-leading businesses
research and deliver innovative
medicines, vaccines and consumer
healthcare products.
Front cover case study
At GSK, innovation underpins each of our three businesses
We are using next generation technology return on R&D investment and accelerate
to develop new approaches to disease the development of new products that can
management and control. In addition to improve patients’ lives.
our own research and development,
We have an active pipeline of innovative
we gain insights through our network of
products across six core areas: respiratory,
collaborations with biotechs, other
HIV and infectious diseases, vaccines,
companies and academic institutions.
immuno-inflammation, oncology and
This enables more efficient trial design
rare diseases.
and greater use of software, analytics and
new technology, all of which is helping to
increase our productivity, maximise our
Arthur works at our Upper Providence R&D lab
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written information released, or oral statements
made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group’s current expectations or
forecasts of future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as ‘anticipate’,
‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial
performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and
anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results. Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory
obligations (including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority), the Group undertakes no obligation to update
any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that the Group may make in any documents which it publishes and/or files with the SEC. All readers, wherever
located, should take note of these disclosures. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and shareholders and investors are cautioned
not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to factors that are beyond the Group’s control or precise
estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed
or implied in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 253-262 of this
Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date they are made and are based upon the knowledge of and
information available to the Directors on the date of this Annual Report.
All expectations and targets regarding future performance should also be read together with ‘Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook’ on the inside back cover of this
document.
A number of adjusted measures are used to report the performance of our business. These measures are defined on page 57 and a reconciliation of core results to total results
is set out on page 66.01 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Strategic report
2016 performance summary About us 02
Chairman’s statement 04
£27.9 £4.5 CEO’s statement 05
bn bn Our integrated approach 06
The market in which we operate 08
Group turnover New Pharmaceutical Our business model 12
(up 17% AER; 6% CER; and Vaccine salesb A clear strategy for growth 14
5% pro-forma CER)a (up >100% AER; >100% CER)a How we measure success 16
How we manage risks 18
Pharmaceuticals 20
£2.6 £7.8
bn bn Vaccines 28
Consumer Healthcare 34
Total operating profit Core operating profit Responsible business 40
(down 75% AER; 86% CER)a,c (up 36% AER; 14% CER; Group financial review 52
17% pro-forma CER)a Governance and remuneration
Chairman's Governance statement 80
18.8 102.4
p p Our Board 82
Our Corporate Executive Team 86
Leadership and effectiveness 88
Total earnings per share Core earnings per share
Nominations Committee report 94
(down 89% AER; 99% CER)a,c (up 35% AER; 12% CER)a
Accountability 97
Audit & Risk Committee report 97
£6.5 £3.1
Relations with shareholders 107
bn bn
Corporate Responsibility
Committee report 108
Net cash inflow from Free cash flowa
operating activities Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement 112
£3.9 20-30
Annual report on remuneration 115
bn
Remuneration policy summary 137
Remuneration policy report 138
Dividends declared Assets with data expected
for 2016 by end of 2018 Financial statements
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 148
Delivering sustainable performance Independent Auditors' report 149
Financial statements 158
Notes to the financial statements 162
1 st in the Access 3rd in the Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline
plc prepared under UK GAAP 232
to Medicine Index pharmaceutical sector
Investor information
since launch in 2008 for Dow Jones Sustainability Index
Quarterly trend 240
Five year record 244
Product development pipeline 247
Product, competition and
intellectual property 250
Principal risks and uncertainties 253
Share capital and share price 263
Dividends 265
Financial calendar 265
Footnotes Annual General Meeting 2017 266
a AER growth rates represent growth at actual exchange rates. We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, Tax information for shareholders 266
measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including core results,
Shareholder services and contacts 268
free cash flow and CER and pro-forma growth rates. These measures are used by management for
US law and regulation 270
planning and reporting purposes and may not be directly comparable with similarly described measures
used by other companies. Core results exclude a number of items and are presented as management Group companies 272
believes that core results allow the key trends and factors driving that performance to be more easily Glossary of terms 283
and clearly identified by shareholders. Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not
as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. A reconciliation
of total results to core results is set out on page 66.
b New products defined as:
Pharmaceuticals: Relvar/Breo Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Arnuity Ellipta, Eperzan/Tanzeum,
Nucala, Tivicay, Triumeq.
Vaccines: Menveo, Bexsero, Shingrix (not yet approved).
c Primarily reflecting impact of £9.2 billion profit in 2015 from disposal of Oncology business.02 GSK Annual Report 2016
About us
Three world-leading businesses
At GSK, our mission
is to improve the
Our Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
quality of human life
businesses generated combined turnover of £27.9 billion in 2016.
by enabling people
Each business benefits from our global commercial infrastructure,
to do more, feel better integrated supply networks and innovative R&D.
and live longer.
9 9,300 150+ 87
Number of employees Number of markets Manufacturing sites
R&D innovation underpins each of our businesses
In 2016, we invested £3.6 billion in R&D across our three
businesses. External partnerships and collaborations
enable us to develop and access knowledge, and increase
our understanding in new areas of science.
We focus our research across six core areas and are using
next generation technology to develop new approaches
to disease management and control.
Respiratory diseases HIV/infectious diseases Vaccines
Immuno-inflammation Oncology Rare diseases
Efficient global operating model
We are focused on optimising our operations through restructuring,
investment and modernisation to improve profitability and efficiency.
£1.4 9.3 27.9
bn % %
Footnote
a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to
report the performance of our business, as described on Incremental annual Total operating profit Core operating profit
page 57, including core results, free cash flow and CER savings delivered in 2016 margin in 2016 margin in 2016a
and pro-forma growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be
(including £0.2 billion
considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or
superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS. currency benefit)03 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Consumer
Healthcare
Our Pharmaceuticals business Our Vaccines business has the Our Consumer Healthcare business
discovers, develops and broadest portfolio of any company, develops and markets products
commercialises medicines to with vaccines for people of all in Wellness, Oral health, Nutrition
treat a range of acute and chronic ages – from babies and adolescents and Skin health categories. Our
diseases. We have a broad portfolio to adults and older people. We seven global power brands – Otrivin,
of innovative and established deliver over two million vaccine Panadol, parodontax, Poligrip,
medicines in respiratory and HIV, doses per day to people living Sensodyne, Theraflu and Voltaren,
in which we are global leaders. in over 160 countries. include some of the most trusted
We focus our research across and best-selling brands in the world.
respiratory, HIV and infectious Read more on pages 28 to 33
diseases, immuno-inflammation, Read more on pages 34 to 39
oncology and rare diseases.
Read more on pages 20 to 27
Top three categories by sales £m Top three categories by sales £m Sales by category £m
Respiratory 6,510 Infanrix/Pediarix 769 Wellness 3,726
HIV 3,556 Hepatitis 602 Oral health 2,223
Established products 2,541 Meningitis 592 Nutrition 674
Skin health 570
£16.1 £4.6 £7.2
bn bn bn
Turnover Turnover Turnover
% of Group turnover % of Group turnover % of Group turnover
58% 16% 26%
2bn 833m 5bn
packs of medicines vaccines delivered Consumer Healthcare products
produced in 2016 in 2016 produced in 201604 GSK Annual Report 2016
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report that GSK made The Board was unanimous in its decision to
further good progress during 2016. appoint Emma Walmsley, previously Head
Operating performance significantly of GSK’s Consumer Healthcare business,
improved in our three businesses and there as the new CEO. Emma has very strong
was continued progress in the late and early leadership skills and a clear track record of
stage R&D pipeline. In every important area, delivery on performance. The Board believe
it has been a year of solid achievement. Emma will bring new thinking to how the
Group operates in today’s healthcare
2016 performance
environment, whilst at the same time
Management continues to make strong
harnessing the momentum evident in
progress in driving the sales and cost
current performance.
benefits from the integration of the Novartis
GSK made further
businesses in Vaccines and Consumer I want to thank Sir Andrew again for his
progress during 2016. Healthcare. These businesses have been dedicated service to GSK. Through his
transformed through the transaction and are commitment and leadership GSK has built
Operating performance now true global leaders in their respective a balanced set of businesses with fine
markets, well positioned strategically and prospects and delivered very significant
significantly improved
improving financially. rewards to shareholders with substantial
and there was continued cash returns. He has also led efforts to
In Pharmaceuticals, new product sales
address the most pressing concerns the
progress in the R&D have shown very good momentum,
industry faces, ranging from reforming our
particularly in HIV and Respiratory. New
pipeline. products now make up around a quarter of commercial model, increasing transparency
of trial results, and ensuring medicines are
total pharmaceutical sales. This is important
priced more fairly and made more accessible
given the pricing pressure faced generally by
to patients worldwide. He will be much
pharmaceutical companies and the potential
missed within GSK and we wish him well in
introduction of generic competition to Advair
Read more his future endeavours.
– for many years the Group’s biggest single
source of profits – in the US during 2017. Board changes during the year
We continue to refresh the Board. In 2016
Governance report See page 80 The Group’s improved operational
we welcomed two new Non-Executive
performance also contributed to markedly
Our Corporate Governance report sets out our Directors: Dr Jesse Goodman and
increased cash generation. Operational
corporate governance practices and includes the Dr Vivienne Cox. Jesse is Professor of
reports of our Board Committees. cash flow also benefited strongly from Medicine at Georgetown University and a
the devaluation of Sterling following the
Remuneration See page 112 Brexit vote in June, although the value leader in public health, and Vivienne brings
many years experience in complex global
Our Remuneration report sets out our of non-sterling liabilities for debt funding manufacturing organisations. Meanwhile,
remuneration arrangements for Executive and and contingent consideration, has also
Stacey Cartwright stepped down from the
Non-Executive Directors and includes our new increased.
Board at the end of December. My thanks go
Remuneration policy for 2017.
Ordinary dividends of 80p per share have to Stacey for nearly six years of dedicated
Diversity statement See page 96 been declared for 2016, the same level as service to the Board.
2015. The company expects to maintain the
Our Board’s Diversity policy, including gender, As we enter a critical period of pipeline
same payment in 2017, in accordance with
sets out measurable objectives which our activity, we have reflected this on the Board
the statements made in 2015. This level of
Nominations Committee monitors and reports with the creation of a new Board Science
progress towards their achievement. distribution still exceeds the free cash flow
Committee, chaired by Dr Goodman. In
generated by the business despite the
Viability statement See page 56 material improvement in cash generated addition, Dr Patrick Vallance, President R&D,
has joined the Board. Later this year, Moncef
Our Viability statement sets out our assessment of in 2016 referred to above. Given that 2017
Slaoui will step down from the Board after
the prospects of the Group over the next is the last year of the three year dividend
28 years with the company. Moncef is a
three years. commitment made in 2015, the Board will
scientist of global repute and has been a
be considering the appropriate dividend
remarkable presence at GSK, particularly
policy for 2018 and beyond during the
in the Vaccines business. We wish him,
course of the year.
too, well in the future.
CEO succession
In closing, I would like to thank all GSK’s
A key area of focus for the Board through
employees and partners for their hard
2016 has been to manage the CEO
work and dedication. The business has
succession as Sir Andrew steps down
outstanding people and they have made
after 33 years with the company and into
2016 a very successful year.
a tenth year as CEO. The Board conducted
a thorough, global search for a successor,
which included internal and external
candidates.
Philip Hampton
Chairman05 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
CEO’s statement
Investor information
The Group executed strongly in 2016, Investment in our R&D organisation
delivering sales growth across all three continues to deliver significant innovation.
businesses, remaining disciplined on For example, 2016 saw the European
costs and progressing our pipeline of approval of Strimvelis, our first of its kind
innovative products. gene therapy for children with the very rare
condition ADA-SCID. This remarkable
Trading performance
technology has the potential to be a platform
Group sales rose 17% at actual rates,
for a number of other gene therapies.
6% CER (5% pro-forma) to £27.9 billion,
despite the uncertainty and volatility The next two years will be an exciting time
experienced globally in 2016. Total earnings for our R&D organisation, with key research
per share was 18.8p (down 89% at actual data on 20-30 assets due by the end
GSK performed strongly
rates, 99% CER), primarily reflecting of 2018.
in 2016, with good sales comparisons with the £9.2 billion profit Delivering performance responsibly
in 2015 from the disposal of the marketed
GSK has a strong commitment to operating
growth across all three Oncology assets. Core earnings per share
responsibly and playing our part in meeting
was 102.4pa – a 12% CER increase – and
businesses, excellent new some of society’s biggest healthcare
at the top end of our guidance for the year.
challenges.
product momentum and
We saw growth across all three of
In 2016, we took further industry-leading
further pipeline progress. the Group’s businesses in 2016, with steps by stopping all payments to healthcare
a particular contribution from new
professionals to speak about our medicines
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccine products.
to other prescribers, and offered essential
Sales from this portfolio more than doubled
vaccines at our lowest price to organisations
to £4.5 billion and in Pharmaceuticals,
supporting refugees in acute need. We
new products accounted for 24% of sales.
also introduced a new approach to filing
HIV products, Tivicay and Triumeq, continued and enforcing patents and IP based on a
to be the standout products with sales of country's economic maturity, and are working
£2.7 billion, while our new respiratory with partners to help the world better prepare
products – Relvar/Breo, Anoro, Incruse, for future epidemics such as Ebola and Zika.
Arnuity and Nucala – also grew strongly
I was very pleased that our efforts to
as did our meningitis vaccines, Bexsero and
operate as a values-based company
Menveo. We expect the momentum in this
were recognised when we came first
group of products to continue through 2017.
in the Access to Medicine Index for the
Our Consumer Healthcare business fifth consecutive time.
performed strongly, with sales up 19%
Outlook
at actual rates, 9% CER (5% pro-forma)
The progress in 2016 highlights the
to £7.2 billion, driven by power brands
investments we have made in the Group
such as Sensodyne, Voltaren and Panadol
over the last several years to build scale
as well as growth from Flonase which
and sustainability as well as develop new
we switched from prescription to
products. I expect the Group to make
over-the-counter.
continued progress in 2017 and, as we
Strong R&D innovation pipeline enter a new period of leadership for the
We filed four assets with regulators in company, I believe GSK is well positioned
2016 which, if approved, have the potential to deliver long-term performance for
to drive further growth in the business, shareholders.
including Shingrix, our candidate vaccine
Finally, as this is my last annual report
for shingles and our once-daily Closed
before I retire, I would like to thank all our
Triple therapy for COPD. In addition, we
employees, partners and shareholders
also started a number of phase III trials for
for their support during my time as CEO.
assets in HIV, respiratory and anaemia.
GSK is a very special company that touches
people’s lives across the world and which
I have been enormously privileged to lead.
Footnote Sir Andrew Witty
a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to Chief Executive Officer
report the performance of our business, as described on
page 57, including core results, free cash flow and CER
and pro-forma growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be
considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or
superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.0066 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
Our integrated approach
By understanding our operating environment and having
a clear strategy, against which we measure performance
and manage risks, we deliver long-term value for
shareholders and society.
The market in which we operate Our business model
We operate in a growing marketplace and our strategy R&D underpins our three businesses and we prioritise our investments
is designed to respond to the challenges and opportunities to where we see the most potential to develop innovative products for
in our sector. unmet medical needs.
Demographic
R&D Pharmaceuticals
change
Changing political Vaccines
landscape
Consumer Healthcare
Increasing payer
emphasis on cost,
value and access
Commercialisation
Manufacturing and distribution
Increased
expectations
of businesses
Technological
and scientific
advances
Read more on page 8 Read more on page 120077 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
A clear strategy for growth How we measure success How we manage risks
Our strategic priorities provide a framework We assess our performance against We manage a number of current and
to create long-term value for shareholders a set of financial and non-financial emerging risks. Below, our Principal Risks
and society. measures, many of which form the are mapped against the primary strategic
basis of our executive remuneration. priority they are most likely to impact.
– Turnover growth Intellectual property
Grow
– Growth of earnings per share Commercialisation
Grow a balanced business and
product portfolio, centred on our
three global businesses.
– New Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Product quality
Deliver product performance
Research practices
Supply continuity and crisis management
Deliver more products of value to
offer improved treatment for patients,
consumers and healthcare providers.
– Operating profit and margin Financial control and reporting
Simplify
– Free cash flow Information protection
– Dividends declared
Simplify the way we operate to reduce
– Net debt
complexity, increase efficiency and free
up resources to reinvest in the business
or return to shareholders, wherever we
see the most attractive returns.
– Access to Medicine Index Patient safety
Responsible business
– Dow Jones Sustainability Index Anti-bribery and Corruption
Environment, Health and Safety
Being a responsible business, and Sustainability
as how we deliver success is as
important as the results we achieve.
Read more on page 14 Read more on page 16 Read more on page 1808 GSK Annual Report 2016
We operate in a growing marketplace and
our strategy is designed to respond to the
challenges and opportunities we face.
The market in which we operate
1.4bn
60%
By 2030, the world’s
population of people of the world’s population will
aged 60+ will be 1.4 billiona live in urban areas
by 2030f
75%
of the global population has
66%
access to a mobile phonef
of the global middle class
90%
will reside in Asia-Pacific
by 2030f
of global youth resides in
developing countriesf
Future State 2030: The global megatrends shaping government. KPMG09 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our business model A clear strategy for growth How we measure success How we manage risks
In 2016, the global Global pharmaceutical sales were In developed economies, demand for
£648 billion on a 12 month rolling healthcare provision continues to remain
healthcare market
basis (September 2015-2016), up from high, although the dynamics are becoming
continued to grow £605 billion during the equivalent period more complex. Trends such as higher life
(September 2014-2015). North America expectancy are contributing towards the
against a backdrop remained the largest pharmaceuticals increasing proportion of elderly people,
market with a 50% share of global sales. and along with improvements in medical
of a challenging global
Europe represented 21%, Asia Pacific technology, are putting pressure on
economic environment. (including Japan) was 21% and emerging healthcare budgets.
markets was 8%.b
The changing global political landscape
Global vaccine sales totalled ~£18 billion Shifting attitudes to globalisation and
in 2016 and are expected to grow 5% free trade, wage stagnation for many and
annually by 2022.c concerns about inequality are causing
significant volatility and uncertainty in
The consumer healthcare markets in which
western markets.
GSK operates account for approximately
$70 billion, and are projected to grow 2016 was characterised by political
3-4% annually over the next five years.d uncertainty and this was exemplified
by the vote to leave the EU in the UK and
Societal trends supported market growth,
the result of the US Presidential Election.
but are also contributing to challenges in
Political uncertainty in Europe is expected
the healthcare sector, particularly on price
to continue in 2017 with national elections
and affordability.
in France and Germany.
Demographic change
In the US there is also uncertainty as
The world population continues to grow
to how the new administration will shape
and, according to the United Nations,
healthcare, particularly with respect to
is predicted to reach 8.5 billion by 2030.
repealing and replacing the Affordable
The proportion of elderly people is growing
Care Act, prescription drug pricing and
and the number of people over the age
regulation. This is coupled with questions
of 60 is expected to reach 1.4 billion by
over the impact of the new administration’s
2030.e At the same time, developing
economic, tax and trade policies.
countries are experiencing growth in their
middle classes, and by 2030 it is expected In the UK, it remains unclear how Brexit
that 60% of the world’s population will be will affect the country’s trading relationships,
middle class.f corporate taxation policy, the movement
of people, and regulatory affairs.
In emerging markets, long-term economic
growth, increasing expectations of
healthcare provision, and changing diets
and lifestyles are increasing demand for
healthcare products, especially to treat
chronic conditions including respiratory
and cardiovascular disease. This demand
is expected to grow significantly faster in
these markets over the coming years than
in more mature economies.
Footnotes
a W orld Population Ageing 2015 Highlights.
United Nations.
b IMS data (latest available at time of publishing).
c I nternal data and EvaluatePharma, World
Preview 2016.
d I nternal forecasts based on Nicholas Hall
and Euromonitor.
e W orld Population Ageing 2015 Highlights.
United Nations.
f F uture State 2030: The global megatrends
shaping government. KPMG.10 GSK Annual Report 2016
The market in which we operate continued
Our strategy to create Increasing payer emphasis on cost, Technological and scientific advances
value and access Key advances in the understanding of
a balanced business
Demographic changes are contributing human biology and genomics are leading
and product portfolio to increased demand for healthcare and to fundamental changes in how we research
in turn putting pressure on government diseases, and the pharmaceutical industry’s
positions us well for budgets and payers. This has led to ability to develop treatments specifically
continued focus on, and public debate to tackle them with innovative treatment
the changes in our
about, the industry’s approach to drug approaches has increased substantially
marketplace. pricing across all key markets. in recent years. Alongside these scientific
advances, digital technology and data
In the US the ultimately unsuccessful
analytics are enabling researchers to explore
Proposition 61 vote, which called for
and interpret larger volumes of biological
medicine price controls in California,
data from genomics and disease biology
was the first of several drug pricing ballot
than ever before. This is providing
initiatives expected in the US. There has
opportunities to increase the speed and
also been increasing use of healthcare
efficiency of drug discovery and the
technology assessments to consider
development of novel therapies that could
value for money as well as medical efficacy,
transform how diseases are managed.
by government-appointed bodies like the
UK’s National Institute for Health and Care Increasing expectations of companies
Excellence and Australia’s Pharmaceutical Beyond our sector-specific context, where
Benefits Advisory Committee. value, cost and affordability are so important,
society has increasing and changing
As demand for healthcare in emerging
expectations of companies, particularly
markets rises, governments are continuing
of large global companies. Stakeholders
to reform healthcare systems to support
– from employees to consumers to policy
access. In China, the government continues
makers and influencers – expect companies
to work to realise the goals set out in the
to behave with integrity and fairness; operate
Healthy China 2030 plan, with significant
transparently; be connected to their local
measures taken during the year to reduce
communities; and play their part in
pharmaceutical prices through the National
addressing global challenges from health
Price Negotiations.
epidemics to climate change. Responding
During the year, the UN’s High-Level Panel to this requires strong partnership and
on Access to Medicines report, reiterated connectivity between public and private
the rights of countries to issue compulsory sector organisations.
licences to access cheaper supplies of
generic drugs.
We expect the political and public scrutiny
on pricing to continue.11 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Our business model A clear strategy for growth How we measure success How we manage risks
Our strategic response
Three world-leading GSK is well positioned to take advantage of demographic-led demand for new innovative
products with our three world-leading businesses in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and
businesses,
Consumer Healthcare, and our global presence in more than 150 markets. For example,
underpinned in emerging markets, where significant demographic changes and societal trends are
by innovative R&D increasing demand for healthcare, our Pharmaceuticals business sells 47% more volume
than our nearest competitor. In emerging markets, we sell 70% of our vaccines, and the
region represents one-third of our Consumer Healthcare business.
Our strategy to create three balanced businesses helps mitigate risk because we can
access growth opportunities around the world and navigate changes both in our portfolio
and the challenges we face in today’s operating environment.
A global company As a global company, we understand the benefits of free trade and globalisation but also the
importance of companies like ours having a significant local presence in the communities in
with a significant
which we operate. We have a large global footprint and can make an important contribution to
local presence the markets in which we operate in, for example, through the tax we pay and the jobs we create.
Engaging with government, both directly and through industry trade bodies such as ABPI and
BIA, is an important way we can inform policy that will impact our sector. For example, through
the UK EU Life Sciences Steering Group, GSK is working closely with our peers and the UK
government to address the needs of our industry during the EU exit negotiations. Overall, we
continue to believe that Brexit will not cause a material impact on our financial position in the
long term, but may cause some disruption over the short-term.
Global and Our strategy to focus on pricing our products at a level that provides attractive volume expansion
opportunities means we are able to access patients and consumers around the world.
sustainable
We understand payer and patient concerns about the affordability of healthcare, and we are
pricing
leading efforts to develop sustainable solutions. Our equitable pricing strategy for medicines
and vaccines is based on the country, disease area, product type and the patient’s ability to pay.
In the US, we have launched our six newest products priced similar to or below those of the
medicines we aim to replace. We are also pioneering efforts to show the impact our medicines
can have in real-world clinical practice settings.
As a research-based company, we rely on the protection of patents, regulatory data exclusivity,
and other rights, to ensure a reasonable return on our investment. However, we recognise the
need for a flexible approach to patent protection. In 2016, we expanded our current approach
to filing and enforcing patents by opting not to file for patent protection in least-developed and
low-income countries and by granting licences to generic manufacturers to supply versions of
our medicines in lower middle income countries (other than G20 countries).
Leading responsible Being a responsible business is fundamental to GSK. We understand that society requires
businesses to behave with integrity. How we operate is as important as the financial results
business approach
we deliver: we lead industry efforts on access to medicines; clinical trial data transparency;
and the fight against anti-microbial resistance. In evolving our commercial model to ensure
patients’ interests come first, we no longer pay healthcare professionals to speak on our behalf.12 GSK Annual Report 2016
R&D underpins our three businesses and we prioritise
our investments to where we see the most potential to
develop innovative products for unmet medical needs.
The market in which Our business model
we operate
Our resources How we create value
Strong R&D Across three world-
People and culture innovation... leading businesses...
Almost 100,000 employees
bring expertise and our values
to everything they do.
R&D Pharmaceuticals
Financial capital
Earnings, cash flow and access
to capital markets allow us to
invest in our business. Vaccines
Collaborations
and partnerships
1,500 R&D partnerships and Consumer
collaborations with academic
Healthcare
institutions, biotechs, NGOs and
other companies bring important
insights to our innovation.
Suppliers
Suppliers provide essential
services and materials.
Reinvestment13 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
A clear strategy for growth How we measure success How we manage risks
How we create value The value we create
With an efficient
global operating model... For shareholders (99) 12
% %
– We aim to deliver sustainable
earnings growth 2016 total 2016 core
EPS growth* EPS growtha
– Dividends
80
p
* Primarily reflecting comparison with £9.2bn profit
in 2015 from disposal of marketed Oncology assets 2016 dividend
Manufacturing
For patients and consumers 833
m
– Increased access to quality products
which enable people to do more, doses of vaccines
feel better and live longer produced in 2016
Commercialisation
For society £0.9
and distribution bn
– Healthier communities
2016 tax charge
– Economic contribution through jobs
and taxation £210
m
donated to local communities
through product donations, time
and cash
For employees 75
countries
– An environment where they feel valued
As part of the global roll-out,
100,000 employees and family
members in 75 countries
now have access to our
ground-breaking preventive
healthcare programme
Reinvestment
Footnote
a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our
business, as described on page 57, including core results, free cash flow and CER and
pro-forma growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not
as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.14 GSK Annual Report 2016
Our strategic priorities provide a framework to
create long-term value for shareholders and society.
The market in which Our business model A clear strategy for growth
we operate
Strategic priorities Progress in 2016
– Global sales: £27.9 billion, up 17% 18.8
p
Grow AER; 6% CER; 5% pro-forma CER
Total earnings per share
– New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine
(down 89% AER; 99% CER)
product sales were £4.5 billion,
102.4
up >100% AER; >100% CER
Grow a balanced business and p
product portfolio, centred on our – Consumer Healthcare sales were Core earnings per share
three global businesses. £7.2 billion (up 19% AER; 9% CER; (up 35% AER; 12% CER)a
5% pro-forma CER), with strong
22
contributions from power brands %
New Pharmaceutical and
Vaccine product sales
– Four filings with regulators, including 4
Deliver
Shingrix candidate vaccine and
Closed Triple filings with regulators
in 2016
– EU approval for Strimvelis, the
Deliver more products of value to first gene therapy for rare disease
offer improved treatment for patients, (ADA-SCID)
consumers and healthcare providers. – 13% of Consumer Healthcare
innovation sales from products
launched in the last three years
– Improved core operating leverage 9.3
Simplify %
across all three businesses
Total operating profit margin
– Incremental annual cost savings
of £1.4 billion delivered (including 27.9
%
Simplify the way we operate to reduce £0.2 billion currency benefit)
complexity, increase efficiency and free Core operating profit margin
– Continued to roll out new global
up resources to reinvest in the business systems and standardisation (up 2.6 percentage points
or return to shareholders, wherever we of our processes pro-forma CER)a
see the most attractive returns.
– Expanded graduated approach 1
Responsible business st
to patents and IP to widen access
to medicines in the Access to
Medicine Index
– Committed to supply essential
Being a responsible business, as how vaccines at the lowest price to civil 3
rd
we deliver success is as important as society organisations for refugees
the results we achieve. – EMA approval for chlorhexedine, in our sector for Dow Jones
Sustainability Index
our antiseptic gel for newborn
umbilical cord infections in
developing countries
Footnote
a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business,
as described on page 57, including core results, free cash flow and CER and pro-forma growth rates.
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to,
information presented in accordance with IFRS.15 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
A clear strategy for growth How we measure success How we manage risks
Key challenges in 2016 Key priorities in 2017
– Continued pricing pressure – Deliver our 2017 guidance
in the US and Europe
– Drive sales and market growth for respiratory,
– Volatility and slowing emerging HIV, meningitis vaccines, and power brands
market economies
– Progress the four regulatory filings made in
2016 and launch successfully if approved
– Manage impact of possible generic competition
to Advair in the US
– Continued prioritisation of – Deliver key data on 20-30 assets by the
the pipeline and appropriate end of 2018 and manage prioritisation of
deployment of resources capital allocation
– Increasing global demand – Continue to improve efficiency and capacity
for vaccines and complex of supply chain for new and existing products
manufacturing process
leading to supply pressures
– Integration of reporting – Continue to roll out new global systems and
systems and processes standardisation processes
following Novartis transaction
– Continue to focus on improving cash conversion
and management of working capital
– Continue to optimise capital expenditure
– Responding to stakeholder – Ensure sustainable funding for biopreparedness
concerns on affordability organisation to enhance preparedness against
and access future epidemics
– Continue to strengthen – Embed flexible approach to IP and patent protection
values-based culture16 GSK Annual Report 2016
We assess our performance against a set of financial
and non-financial metrics, many of which form the
basis of our executive remuneration.
The market in which Our business model A clear strategy for growth How we measure
we operate success
Growth CER %
Group turnover
Reported Pro-forma
£27.9 2014 15.4 3.2 4.3 £23bn (3)a
bn
2015 14.2 3.7 6.0 £23.9bn 6 1
2016 16.1 4.6 7.2 £27.9bn 6 5
2014 2015 2016
Growth CER% Reported Pro-forma Reported Pro-forma
Pharmaceuticals (5)a (7) (1) 3 4
Vaccines (1) 19 3 14 12
Consumer Healthcare (1)a 44 6 9 5
New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine product performanceb R
Growth CER %
£4.5 2014 0.4 >100
bn
2015 2.0 >100
2016 4.5 >100
Growth CER %
Operating profit and margin R Total Core Reported Pro-forma
Total £2.6bn 2014 3.615.6%
6.628.7%
(4 (0 6)
)a
2015 10.343.1% >100
5.723.9% (9) (3)
Cored £7.8bn
2016 2.69.3% (86)
7.827.9% 14 17
Growth
Earnings per share
Total Core £ % CER %
Total 18.8p 2014 57.3
95.4
( (4 19 2)
)a
(4 (0 1)
)a
2015 174.3 >100 >100
75.7 (21) (15)
Cored 102.4p 2016 18.8 (89) (99)
102.4 00.0 35 1217 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
How we measure How we manage risks
success
Free cash flowd R
Growth £ %
£3.1 2014 2.6 3.9e (44)
bn
2015 (0.2) 2.5e n/a
2016 3.1 4.7e >100
Dividends declared
Dividends
£3.9
2014 3.8
bn
2015 2.0 3.9 1.0c
2016 3.9
Net debt
£13.8
2014 14.4
bn
2015 10.7
2016 13.8
Access to Medicine Index ranking Dow Jones Sustainability Index ranking
1 3
st rd
We have been first since the in the pharmaceutical industry
index began in 2008 (2016: 95th percentile 2015: 89th percentile, 2014:
98th percentile)
See page 43 for more information See page 43 for more information
Key R The remuneration of our executives is linked to the key indicators marked. See page 119.
Footnotes
a Excluding divestments completed in 2013.
b New products defined as:
Pharmaceuticals: Relvar/Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta, Arnutiy Ellipta, Eperzan/Tanzeum, Nucala, Tivicay, Triumeq.
Vaccines: Menveo, Bexsero, Shingrix (not yet approved).
c 2015 includes special dividend.
d We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including core results, free cash flow and CER
and pro-forma growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
e Free cash flow excluding payments for legal costs, restructuring, tax on the Oncology disposal and the purchase of HIV clinical assets which are treated as
intangible asset purchases.18 GSK Annual Report 2016
We manage current and emerging risks that may
impact our strategic priorities through rigorous and
consistent risk management processes.
The market in which Our business model A clear strategy for growth How we measure success
we operate
Our principal risks are regularly reviewed Principal risk and description 2016 assessment Macro GSK exposure
environment post mitigation
by the Corporate Executive Team to assess
whether they are reflective of the most Patient safety – The macro environment has remained stable, with patient safety regulation and standards remaining consistent.
significant risks facing the organisation, Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse events from – We have improved safety data management, patient communications and product labelling. These improvements
based on evolving internal and external all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a timely manner. are being incorporated throughout the organisation, leaving the GSK exposure level unchanged.
factors. The table opposite lists the
principal risks that were managed across Intellectual property – The macro risk is unchanged due to no significant changes that affect our ability to secure, maintain and
the Group in 2016. It also includes our enforce patents.
Failure to appropriately secure, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights.
definition of each risk and our assessment
– The GSK exposure level is stable, based on the maturity of our risk management processes and general
of any change in the risk during the year, ability to enforce and defend patents where appropriate.
both at a macro level and after GSK’s
mitigating activities. Product quality – The macro risk is higher, with increasing regulatory scrutiny of data integrity, supply continuity and drug
shortages, accompanied by new guidance and revised legislation.
Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) or inadequate
controls and governance of quality in the supply chain covering supplier standards, – Despite the challenging macro environment, the GSK exposure level is unchanged, reflecting effective responses
manufacturing and distribution of products. to external regulatory reviews during 2016, a greater focus on data integrity and improved governance.
Financial controls and reporting – The macro environment has remained stable, due to no material change in financial reporting requirements.
Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant losses due to treasury – The unchanged GSK exposure level is reflective of the significant IT systems and operating model changes
activities; failure to report accurate financial information in compliance with accounting that are being implemented throughout the organisation, as well as continued risk from third-party relationships.
standards and applicable legislation; failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight While we expect that these system and model changes will reduce risk in the future, the risk impact from these
over third-party relationships. changes is being mitigated through strong risk management and governance, as well as the continued progress
of the global Third Party Oversight programme.
Anti-bribery and Corruption – The macro environment has remained stable, with the regulatory environment and global attitude towards
Anti-bribery and Corruption remaining within expectations.
Failure of GSK employees, consultants and third parties to comply with our
Anti-bribery and Corruption (ABAC) principles and standards, as well as all – The GSK exposure level is lower as our risk management practices have gained strength and are embedded
applicable legislation. deeper across the organisation through our ABAC programme, which builds on the Group's values and
standards and has enabled us to manage the risk more effectively.
Commercialisation – The macro risk level has increased due to greater industry pricing pressures and increased regulatory scrutiny
in respect of sales and promotional activities.
Failure to execute business strategies, or effectively manage competitive
opportunities and threats in accordance with the letter and spirit of legal, – The GSK exposure level is unchanged, as we implement industry-leading changes in our operating model and in
industry or the Group’s requirements. particular in the compensation model for sales representatives and our relationships with healthcare professionals.
Research practices – The macro risk level is elevated due to increased regulatory scrutiny of Good Clinical Practices.
Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound pre-clinical and clinical research. – The GSK exposure level is unchanged based on mature internal control processes and an enhanced governance
In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities that are consistent with the letter and programme, designed to promote best practice across the business units.
spirit of the law and industry, or the Group’s requirements.
Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability – The macro risk level is higher due to greater focus and increased regulatory activity on environmental issues.
Arrows key
Failure to manage Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) risks – The GSK exposure level is unchanged due to our controls and governance being well established and capable
Increased risk in line with our objectives and policies and with relevant laws and regulations. of allowing for the increased focus and regulatory activity.
No change to risk Information protection – The macro risk has increased as the threat has become more sophisticated and targeted, with a higher
volume of incidents.
The risk to GSK business activities if information becomes disclosed to those not
Decreased risk authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be available or are corrupted. – The GSK exposure level is unchanged while we see the effects of the substantial progress we have made
in upgrading our level protection against cyber attacks and safeguarding our critical and sensitive data.
Supply continuity and crisis management – Macro factors such as regulatory focus on contract manufacturers outside of the US and EU and increased
data integrity expectations, are increasing supply risk.
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product; inability to respond
For more extensive information on GSK risks, effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to recover and sustain – The GSK exposure level is stable, based on the significant improvements delivered through our ongoing supply
including risk impact and mitigating activities, critical operations. This risk was previously called Crisis and continuity management. remediation programmes and our increased monitoring and supervision of third parties.
see pages 253 to 262.
See page 56 for our viability statement.19 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
How we manage risks
Principal risk and description 2016 assessment Macro GSK exposure
environment post mitigation
Patient safety – The macro environment has remained stable, with patient safety regulation and standards remaining consistent.
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse events from – We have improved safety data management, patient communications and product labelling. These improvements
all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a timely manner. are being incorporated throughout the organisation, leaving the GSK exposure level unchanged.
Intellectual property – The macro risk is unchanged due to no significant changes that affect our ability to secure, maintain and
enforce patents.
Failure to appropriately secure, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights.
– The GSK exposure level is stable, based on the maturity of our risk management processes and general
ability to enforce and defend patents where appropriate.
Product quality – The macro risk is higher, with increasing regulatory scrutiny of data integrity, supply continuity and drug
shortages, accompanied by new guidance and revised legislation.
Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) or inadequate
controls and governance of quality in the supply chain covering supplier standards, – Despite the challenging macro environment, the GSK exposure level is unchanged, reflecting effective responses
manufacturing and distribution of products. to external regulatory reviews during 2016, a greater focus on data integrity and improved governance.
Financial controls and reporting – The macro environment has remained stable, due to no material change in financial reporting requirements.
Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant losses due to treasury – The unchanged GSK exposure level is reflective of the significant IT systems and operating model changes
activities; failure to report accurate financial information in compliance with accounting that are being implemented throughout the organisation, as well as continued risk from third-party relationships.
standards and applicable legislation; failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight While we expect that these system and model changes will reduce risk in the future, the risk impact from these
over third-party relationships. changes is being mitigated through strong risk management and governance, as well as the continued progress
of the global Third Party Oversight programme.
Anti-bribery and Corruption – The macro environment has remained stable, with the regulatory environment and global attitude towards
Anti-bribery and Corruption remaining within expectations.
Failure of GSK employees, consultants and third parties to comply with our
Anti-bribery and Corruption (ABAC) principles and standards, as well as all – The GSK exposure level is lower as our risk management practices have gained strength and are embedded
applicable legislation. deeper across the organisation through our ABAC programme, which builds on the Group's values and
standards and has enabled us to manage the risk more effectively.
Commercialisation – The macro risk level has increased due to greater industry pricing pressures and increased regulatory scrutiny
in respect of sales and promotional activities.
Failure to execute business strategies, or effectively manage competitive
opportunities and threats in accordance with the letter and spirit of legal, – The GSK exposure level is unchanged, as we implement industry-leading changes in our operating model and in
industry or the Group’s requirements. particular in the compensation model for sales representatives and our relationships with healthcare professionals.
Research practices – The macro risk level is elevated due to increased regulatory scrutiny of Good Clinical Practices.
Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound pre-clinical and clinical research. – The GSK exposure level is unchanged based on mature internal control processes and an enhanced governance
In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities that are consistent with the letter and programme, designed to promote best practice across the business units.
spirit of the law and industry, or the Group’s requirements.
Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability – The macro risk level is higher due to greater focus and increased regulatory activity on environmental issues.
Failure to manage Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) risks – The GSK exposure level is unchanged due to our controls and governance being well established and capable
in line with our objectives and policies and with relevant laws and regulations. of allowing for the increased focus and regulatory activity.
Information protection – The macro risk has increased as the threat has become more sophisticated and targeted, with a higher
volume of incidents.
The risk to GSK business activities if information becomes disclosed to those not
authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be available or are corrupted. – The GSK exposure level is unchanged while we see the effects of the substantial progress we have made
in upgrading our level protection against cyber attacks and safeguarding our critical and sensitive data.
Supply continuity and crisis management – Macro factors such as regulatory focus on contract manufacturers outside of the US and EU and increased
data integrity expectations, are increasing supply risk.
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product; inability to respond
effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to recover and sustain – The GSK exposure level is stable, based on the significant improvements delivered through our ongoing supply
critical operations. This risk was previously called Crisis and continuity management. remediation programmes and our increased monitoring and supervision of third parties.2200 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
As a leader in
respiratory, GSK has
been at the forefront
of research in this area
for over 45 years.
Pharmaceuticals
Our Pharmaceuticals business discovers,
develops and commercialises medicines
to treat a broad range of the world’s most
common acute and chronic diseases.2211 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Grow Deliver Simplify Responsible
business
£16.1bn 3 34.1% 6
2016 Pharmaceutical There were three filings Operating profit margin We have launched our
reported sales were up with regulators in 2016 in 2016 was 34.1%, last six new products in
14% AER and 3% CERa for Closed Triple, 3.7 percentage points the US priced similar to
(4% pro-forma CER). Benlysta subcutaneous higher than in 2015 and or below those we aim
Sales of new products and sirukumab. 1.2 percentage points higher to replace.
were 24% of on a CER pro-forma basis.
Pharmaceutical sales.
Footnote
a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including
core results, free cash flow and CER and pro-forma growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not
as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.22 GSK Annual Report 2016
Pharmaceuticals
Overview HIV
We improve healthcare Our global HIV business is managed
Our Pharmaceuticals business has a
through ViiV Healthcare, a company
by preventing disease, portfolio of innovative and established
78.3% owned by GSK, with Pfizer and
medicines across a broad range of therapy
treating illness and Shionogi the other shareholders.
areas, including respiratory and HIV, in
seeking long-lasting which we are global leaders, as well as ViiV Healthcare is growing rapidly, and
immuno-inflammation, anti-infectives, accounts for over 20% of Pharmaceutical
solutions for chronic urology and rare diseases. Around a sales. This was led by strong demand for
quarter of Pharmaceutical sales come from Tivicay (dolutegravir), an innovative integrase
and acute conditions
products launched over the past four years. strand transfer inhibitor, and Triumeq, a
including rare diseases. single-pill treatment combining dolutegravir,
Respiratory
abacavir and lamivudine.
We have the industry’s broadest range of
inhaled respiratory products. Our respiratory Specialty products
portfolio is the largest contributor to Our Specialty products portfolio includes
Pharmaceutical sales and our expectation medicines such as Benlysta, a treatment
is that by 2020, nine products will account for lupus disease, and Tanzeum/Eperzan,
for approximately 90% of respiratory sales, for Type 2 diabetes.
compared to four in 2015.
Classic and Established products
In the past four years, we have launched Our Classic and Established products
a new generation of respiratory products include over 400 post-patent medicines
including Nucala (mepolizumab) and our in the areas of anti-infectives, allergy,
Ellipta portfolio. neurosciences, dermatology, respiratory
and urology. Many of these medicines
continue to be the top-selling brand in
their therapy area. These products are
an important part of our emerging markets
business, where we sell 47% more volume
than our nearest competitor.
A leader in respiratory
As a leader in respiratory, GSK has been at the forefront
of research in this area for over 45 years.
Today we have over 13,500 patients in clinical This will ensure patients get the full benefits,
studies investigating chronic obstructive in one inhalation, from all their treatments.
pulmonary disease (COPD) in almost 40 Research shows that patients taking the
countries. We believe that insights from this medicine experienced improved lung
research, alongside our early phase scientific function, a higher quality of life and fewer
discovery, will help us meet patient needs exacerbations compared to a leading
well into the future. twice-daily treatment.
Our new generation of inhaled respiratory Looking beyond inhaled medicines, we
medicines are clear evidence of the benefits are now tackling the areas of highest unmet
of our research. This range – including need in respiratory diseases.
Anoro Ellipta, the world’s leading long-acting In 2015 we launched Nucala, our first
muscarinic antagonist/long-acting beta-agonist injectable biologic treatment for severe
against COPD by value – is giving physicians the eosinophilic asthma. Study results showed
unprecedented choice to provide the right that, for patients using Nucala, the risk of
treatment to the right patient. experiencing an asthma attack requiring
emergency hospital care was half that
This year, we filed for regulatory approval
of those receiving the current standard
for our Closed Triple therapy in the US and
of care.
Europe. If approved, this will be the first
COPD treatment to combine three vital once-daily
treatments in a single inhaler.23 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Grow 2016 performance summary In Europe, Pharmaceutical reported sales
Reported Pharmaceutical sales were declined 8% (5% pro-forma). Respiratory
£16,104 million, up 14% at actual rates sales declined by 10%, reflecting the
Sales of our Respiratory
and 3% CER. Adjusting for the disposal ongoing transition to the new Respiratory
products returned to of the Oncology business to Novartis in portfolio and generic competition to
2015, pro-forma turnover was up 4% CER. Seretide. This was partly offset by growth
growth of 2% in 2016.
in the new Respiratory products, which
Performance reflected a return to growth
recorded sales of £225 million. Established
of the respiratory business, which grew 2%.
products were down 4% to £513 million.
Sales of new Respiratory products launched
over the last four years, including our Ellipta International sales were £4,976 million,
based products Breo, Anoro, Arnuity and down 5% (4% pro-forma). Sales in Emerging
Incruse as well as biologic Nucala, more Markets were impacted by the decline in the
than doubled to £1,052 million. HIV sales China business, primarily as a result of the
increased 37% to £3,556 million, with the ongoing reshaping programme and broader
US up 46%. This was driven primarily by Healthcare reforms, including price
strong performances from both Triumeq reductions.
and Tivicay, with sales of £1,735 million
Worldwide HIV sales increased 37% to
and £953 million.
£3,556 million, with the US up 46%,
Sales of new Pharmaceutical products Europe up 29% and International up 21%.
were £3,861 million and now account This growth was primarily driven by strong
for 24% of total Pharmaceutical sales. performance from Triumeq and Tivicay.
US Pharmaceutical sales were £4,705 In 2016, we continued to implement our new
million and declined 1% on a reported basis commercial model. We stopped payments
All growth rates are at CER, a
(up 1% pro-forma). Respiratory sales grew to HCPs to speak on our behalf in January
non-IFRS measure as described
7%, and sales of new Respiratory products and continued our drive to recruit HCPs
on page 57, unless otherwise stated.
were £654 million, exceeding the decline as internal medical experts. In addition, we
in Advair. continued to roll out digital tools to further
our medical education efforts. Following
medical product information sessions with
GSK experts in over 60 countries, 92%
of more than 42,000 HCPs agreed that
the interaction helped them make a more
informed decision benefiting patient care.
Around 79% rated their experience as
superior to similar interactions with other
pharmaceutical companies.
We are working hard in early stage research to find a cure for HIV/AIDS
We have formed a unique partnership to accelerate the search
for an HIV cure.
More than 36 million men, women and children This partnership is recruiting top talent from
around the world live with HIV. As a leading around the world and redefining the
research-based pharmaceutical and healthcare traditional way of conducting research
company, we have a legacy of success in in HIV/AIDS. One of the approaches being
developing treatments for HIV. investigated is known as ‘shock and kill’
which seeks to reveal the hidden virus
GSK has a strong pipeline of new medicines and
that persists in people with HIV infection
our HIV scientists continue to work towards the
despite successful drug therapy, and
goal of one day finding a cure
augment the patient’s immune system
for the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
to clear these last traces of the virus and
We continue to invest in the HIV Cure Center and infected cells.
Qura Therapeutics, our unique joint-ownership
collaboration created in 2015 with The University
of North Carolina (UNC-Chapel Hill), with a single
focus on finding a cure for HIV/AIDS.24 GSK Annual Report 2016
Pharmaceuticals continued
Deliver Our Pharmaceuticals R&D organisation Our HIV pipeline contains a number of
drives discovery and development in several promising medicines and regimens, with
areas of research, including respiratory, HIV, innovative formulations, mode of action and
In 2016, we achieved
infectious diseases, immuno-inflammation, delivery methods. We announced positive
accelerated filing for the oncology and rare diseases. results from two phase III studies evaluating
a two-drug regimen combining dolutegravir
first once-daily Closed Triple 2016 progress
and rilpivirine (Edurant, a Janssen medicine).
We continued to see progress across all
therapy for COPD, received By breaking the mould of conventional
stages of our R&D pipeline. In respiratory,
approval in Europe for our we filed our once-daily Closed Triple therapy three-drug treatments, this therapy could
reduce and streamline HIV medication in
first gene therapy medicine for COPD for regulatory approval in both
the future.
Europe and the US, bringing forward
and obtained positive data to
our original US filing date by 18 months. We have three further HIV programmes
support a new single tablet We also announced positive results from in phase III: a new attachment inhibitor;
the pioneering COPD Salford Lung Study. another two-drug regimen, combining
two-drug HIV regimen.
The study showed that, compared to those dolutegravir and lamivudine; and
receiving usual standard of care, COPD cabotegravir, a once-monthly injectable
patients using Relvar/Breo Ellipta achieved therapy, which combined with long-acting
a superior reduction in exacerbations rilpivirine could also make HIV treatment
in an everyday clinical practice setting. simpler and easier to adhere to. In addition,
we announced the start of a phase III study
We also strengthened the prospects for
to evaluate long-acting cabotegravir as an
our next wave of respiratory medicines
injection every two months, for prevention
with the in-licensing of a novel anti-IL33R
in men who have sex with men at risk of HIV
antibody for severe asthma, and new data
infection. We also completed the acquisitions
supporting the progression of a potential
of the BMS HIV pipeline and discovery
oral treatment, danirixin, into phase IIb
teams and programmes, which have now
clinical development for potential use in
been fully integrated into ViiV Healthcare’s
treating patients with COPD.
R&D organisation.
Timeline and development stages for a pharmaceutical product (industry average)
Drug Pre-clinical Clinical trials Licensing approval
discovery testing
Phase I Phase II Phase III
5-10,000
candidates
Medicine available
10-20 for patients
1 medicine
candidates
5-10 2-5 1-2
candidates candidates candidates
4.5 years 5.5 years 7 years 8.5 years 11 years 12.5 years
Source: ABPI25 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
We continued to strengthen our emerging We also received positive phase II data for
20-30 immuno-inflammation portfolio, with our first-in-class antibacterial gepotidacin, in
regulatory filings in Europe and the US; treating gonorrhoea, for which the US Food
a subcutaneous formulation of Benlysta, and Drug Administration (FDA) has granted
our treatment for systemic lupus disease fast-track status on the basis of the serious
assets with data expected
currently available as an IV formulation; and unmet need for new medicines in this area.
by the end of 2018.
sirukumab, an investigational IL-6 treatment
In oncology, we have 11 assets in clinical
for rheumatoid arthritis which we are
development and have seen encouraging
co-developing with Janssen. If approved,
developments in our core areas of immuno-
both treatments will be self-administered
oncology, cell therapy and epigenetics.
at home, making them a convenient
During the year, the FDA granted
treatment option for patients.
breakthrough therapy status to the affinity
In 2016, we also gained approval of enhanced T-cell therapy, which targets the
Strimvelis, the first corrective gene therapy antigen NY-ESO in synovial cancer that
for children suffering from the very rare we are developing with Adaptimmune.
disease ADA-SCID (adenosine deaminase
During 2016, we terminated the development
severe combined immunodeficiency) –
of Iosmapimod for COPD following analysis
see case study below.
of phase II results, and halted development
We started several phase II studies of the HIV maturation inhibitor 3532795 in
including: one to evaluate an anti-GM-CSF favour of other maturation inhibitors in our
(anti-granulocyte macrophage colony- pipeline that may have a better profile.
stimulating factor) monoclonal antibody for
2017/2018 milestones
inflammatory hand osteoarthritis; the other
The coming two years will be significant
assessing an oral RIP1 kinase inhibitor, for
for the pharmaceutical pipeline, marking
rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis patients.
the start of another intense period of R&D
activity for the company, as we expect
important data on between 20 and 30
assets in areas including HIV, respiratory,
immuno-inflammation and oncology.
Approval of GSK’s first gene therapy opens new chapter in treatment of rare diseases
The application of groundbreaking technology has resulted
in the world’s first corrective gene therapy for children.
The European Commission’s approval of Working together, we took an experimental
Strimvelis, a one-time treatment for ADA-SCID medicine procedure and developed rigorous
(adenosine deaminase severe combined manufacturing and quality control systems to
immunodeficiency) is the first authorisation of ensure it could be evaluated
a corrective stem cell gene therapy for children by regulators.
and a major milestone in our commitment to
A 100% survival rate three years after
developing innovative transformative medicines.
treatment was observed for all children
ADA-SCID, which is caused by a faulty gene in the pivotal study. Every child receiving
inherited from both parents, affects around Strimvelis who contributed to the marketing
15 newborns in Europe each year. A child authorisation data package is alive today.
born with ADA-SCID does not have a healthy, Patients referred for treatment will receive the
fully-functioning immune system and, as a gene therapy at Ospedale San Raffaele.
consequence, is unable to fight off everyday
We hope Strimvelis will be the first of
infections. The treatment involves correcting this
a number of innovative gene therapy
often fatal disorder using the patient’s
medicines that we will bring to patients over
own cells.
the next few years.
The development of Strimvelis follows a
Two further programmes using the same
collaboration between GSK and the original Italian
platform, in metachromatic leukodystropy
developers, the San Raffaele Telethon Institute for
and Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, are both
Gene Therapy in Milan, Italy.
in clinical trials.26 GSK Annual Report 2016
Pharmaceuticals continued
Deliver continued Pharmaceuticals R&D approach As a treatment advances, Medicines
We focus our investment on areas where Development Teams of multi-disciplinary
we believe there are the most attractive specialists ensure its progress from
opportunities, having considered patient investigational medicine and later stage
need, market opportunity and scientific development to filing with regulators and
understanding. We concentrate on ongoing evidence generation.
mechanisms that might slow down or
Strategic issues and overall budget
reverse the course of diseases and present
management are overseen by the R&D
opportunities to achieve remission or cure.
1,500 management team. Robust governance
Our early research efforts centre on around boards manage investment, technical,
30 discovery performance units. These scientific and commercial decisions
nimble units have their own budgets and throughout a molecule’s lifecycle.
Our range of partners includes
project accountability, so are different from
academic institutions, public-private Collaboration with external partners
the traditional hierarchical R&D model.
partnerships, and pharmaceutical and is an important part of our approach.
They help us to maintain flexibility, create
biotechnology companies. We partner with more than 1,500
agility, and enable us to focus on the
organisations around the world, including
most promising early opportunities.
academic institutions, public-private
partnerships, and other pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies.
Collaborating with the Francis Crick Institute
GSK joins forces with world-leading biomedical research centre.
A landmark collaboration between GSK development of novel approaches to
and the Francis Crick Institute aims to achieve problems. By pooling our knowledge and
new breakthroughs in understanding and resources we hope the collaboration will
treating diseases. ultimately improve the success rate for
discovering new medicines.
The open innovation collaboration combines
our pharmaceutical R&D expertise with the In the spirit of open innovation, research
Crick’s deep knowledge of disease biology. findings from the collaboration will be
shared externally, via joint publication in
Our mutual aim is to explore new avenues of
peer-reviewed journals. This will enable
medical research and drug discovery across
important discoveries to be applied across
a range of diseases. The collaboration takes
the research community, maximising the
a ‘LinkLabs’ approach to working, with teams
potential to progress scientific understanding
of scientists from each organisation working
and accelerate the development of
side-by-side in integrated teams at the
treatments for patients.
Crick’s world-leading centre of biomedical
research in the heart of London and GSK’s The Francis Crick Institute is a charity funded
global R&D hub in Stevenage. GSK and the by the Medical Research Council, Cancer
Crick believe this fluid interchange of skills Research UK, the Wellcome Trust, University
and ideas benefits both sides, introducing College London, Imperial College London
new ways of working and stimulating the and King’s College London.27 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Simplify In 2016, we continued to reshape our Our enterprise resource planning (ERP)
Pharmaceuticals business and reduce system is enabling better sharing of data
complexity in our supply chain while to improve planning capabilities. By the end
Our supply chain
maintaining our commitment to quality. of 2016, the system was live in 10 of our 40
transformation programme Pharmaceuticals manufacturing sites.
Cost savings generated in the
has delivered significant Pharmaceutical business have contributed Committed to quality
to the delivery of £3 billion of annual savings We are committed to meeting the highest
reductions in manufacturing
(including £0.2 billion of currency benefit) standards through stringent quality control
costs and streamlined our for the Group by the end of 2016. Operating and quality assurance processes. Our
external supply network. profit margin for Pharmaceuticals was medicines and vaccines are manufactured
34.1%, 3.7 percentage points higher on a according to current Good Manufacturing
CER basis than in 2015 and 1.2 percentage Practice (cGMP) regulations, and our
points higher on a pro-forma CER basis. internal quality management system.
In 2016, our Pharmaceutical manufacturing
In 2016, we completed our three-year
sites had 66 regulatory inspections;
transformation programme to move
six had findings which we are resolving.
to an end-to-end supply chain. This has
In July, we received a Warning Letter from
delivered improvements in customer service,
the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
quality and productivity which, combined
relating to an inspection carried out 12
with simplification of our portfolio, has
months earlier at GSK’s Worthing, UK,
delivered a significant reduction in
primary manufacturing site. We responded
manufacturing costs and streamlined our
promptly to the FDA to address the points
external supply network by more than 40%.
raised and advised them of a programme
As part of our commitment to creating of work which is now well advanced.
a world-class supply chain, in 2016 we
agreed a five-year global logistics contract
with an international freight company.
This contract has been a key enabler
to reduce our site costs in the year.
Responsible
Leading the fight against antimicrobial resistance
business
We demonstrated our continuing commitment to tackling
antimicrobial resistance by signing up to a landmark
industry roadmap.
Resistance to antibiotics is becoming a major Our most advanced asset in the
public health crisis, with 700,000 people antibiotics pipeline is gepotidacin,
dying every year from drug resistant infections. which we developed in collaboration
The roadmap commits us, and other participating with the US government’s Biomedical
pharmaceutical companies, Advanced Research Development Authority
to achieving four significant targets by 2020. (BARDA). Gepotidacin is
These include reducing the environmental impact now moving towards phase III studies,
of antibiotics production and ensuring they are following positive phase II results in 2016.
only used by patients who need them. The
The global health threat of antimicrobial
roadmap builds on our January 2016 commitment
resistance requires a multi-stakeholder
to the Davos Declaration to combat antibiotic
response, as seen in the industry
resistance.
collaboration beyond last year’s roadmap and
We have been active in discovering and our work with BARDA. We also partner with
developing antibiotics for more than 70 years. other governments and companies to
Today, our pharmaceuticals focus is on developing progress research and development into new
new antibiotics and we have an active pipeline of antibiotics.
new medicines. In addition, our Vaccines business We are a member of the Innovative Medicines
researches and develops new vaccines to prevent Initiative’s NewDrugs4BadBugs, and are a
bacterial infections, so saving lives and reducing long-term partner of the
dependence on antibiotics. Defence Threat Reduction Agency.2288 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
Following impressive clinical
trial results, we have filed
our candidate shingles
vaccine with regulators in
the US, Canada and Europe.
Vaccines
We have the broadest vaccines portfolio
of any company, with vaccines for people
of all ages – from babies and adolescents
to adults and older people.2299 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
Grow Deliver Simplify Responsible
business
£4.6bn 14 >30%
Vaccines sales were up In 2016, we filed our Operating profit margin We are working with
26% AER and 14% CERa candidate shingles was 31.7% in 2016, 5.3 partners to help the world
(12% pro-forma CER) in vaccine, Shingrix, percentage points higher be better prepared for
2016 with growth across and have 14 candidate than in 2015 and 7.6 global health epidemics.
the US, Europe and vaccines in our pipeline percentage points higher
International markets. for a range of diseases. on a CER pro-forma basis.
Footnote
a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including
core results, free cash flow and CER and pro-forma growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not
as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.30 GSK Annual Report 2016
Vaccines
Our Vaccines business has a portfolio Behind our commercial portfolio is our
Our Vaccines business is of 41 paediatric, adolescent, adult, older robust research pipeline, which reflects
people and travel vaccines that offer our expertise in virology and bacterial
one of the largest in the
protection against 22 different diseases. infection, and across different technological
world, delivering over These include Bexsero, our meningitis B platforms. We have more than 2,000
vaccine; Menveo for meningitis A, C, W and scientists dedicated to discovering and
two million doses of
Y; Flu; Hepatitis; Synflorix for pneumococcal developing vaccines across our three
vaccines per day to disease; Rotarix for rotavirus gastroenteritis; global R&D centres in the US and Europe.
and vaccines against diphtheria, tetanus and As well as our internal research, we have
people in over 160 whooping cough, namely, Infanrix/Pediarix more than 180 R&D partnerships with
and Boostrix. external scientists and leading academic
countries.
and public health institutions.
Demand for vaccines continues to increase
as the world’s population grows and To help more people benefit from
changes. To meet this demand, we must vaccine protection, we use a ‘tiered
deliver reliable, high quality vaccines and pricing’ approach, based on nations’
push the boundaries of science and gross national income per head and
technology to develop innovative vaccines. ability to pay. We are also one of the
largest contributors to Gavi, the Vaccine
Alliance, a public-private partnership
that aims to improve access to vaccines
in developing countries.
Candidate shingles vaccine filed
Following impressive clinical trial results, we have filed our
candidate shingles vaccine Shingrix with regulators in the US,
Canada and Europe.
We are seeking approval for Shingrix, our This is the first time such high efficacy has
candidate vaccine, for use in preventing shingles been demonstrated in a candidate vaccine for
– a common but potentially serious condition – older people, whose weakened immune
and its complications in people over 50. Shingles systems often leave them more susceptible to
sufferers develop a painful itchy rash, with up to disease. There is a possibility therefore that
30% also getting postherpetic neuralgia (PHN), the technology it is based on may open up
an intense pain that can last for at least three effective treatments for other conditions
months. affecting older adults.
More than one in three people over 50 In 2017, we expect the results of clinical
are likely to have shingles in their lifetime. studies with Shingrix both in people at
Individuals with compromised immune high risk of shingles, due to the weakening of
systems, such as cancer patients undergoing their immune systems, and in patients
chemotherapy, are especially susceptible. revaccinated with our candidate vaccine who
have previously received the existing vaccine.
A study published in 2016 found Shingrix had
90% efficacy for people over 70, maintained
for up to four years, while earlier research
showed 97% efficacy in those over 50.31 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Grow 2016 performance summary Sales in International markets grew 10%
Vaccines sales grew 26% at actual rates, (8% pro-forma), with growth primarily
14% CER and 12% pro-forma CER to driven by Synflorix, due to market expansion
Vaccines sales grew 14%
£4,592 million during 2016. Performance in Asia and certain African countries.
on a reported basis (12% was driven by sales of new products Menveo sales also contributed to growth
including meningitis vaccines Bexsero and driven by a significant tender award in
pro-forma) to £4.6 billion,
Menveo which contributed £592 million. Argentina. Vaccine sales increased in
from strong performance There was also strong demand for Fluarix Brazil due to strong demand for Bexsero,
from our meningitis and /FluLaval which had sales of £414 million. Menjugate and Boostrix.
flu vaccines. US sales grew 13% (12% pro-forma) with
Bexsero, Menveo and Boostrix all seeing
market and share growth while Infanrix
and Pediarix both benefited from competitor
supply issues in the market.
In Europe, sales grew 18% (16% pro-forma),
driven primarily by Bexsero sales through the
UK Government’s immunisation programme
All growth rates are at CER, a
and in private market channels in several
non-IFRS measure as described
other countries. Boostrix sales in Europe
on page 57, unless otherwise stated.
benefited from higher demand and
competitor supply issues.
UK infants benefit from meningitis B vaccine
The number of cases of meningitis B reported in the UK
fell significantly after babies were vaccinated with our Bexsero
meningococcal vaccine.
The UK became the first country in the world Invasive meningococcal B disease is
to introduce a national infant immunisation the leading cause of meningitis in the
programme against meningitis B in late 2015, industrialised world. It develops rapidly,
with children being vaccinated at two and typically among previously healthy children
four months and receiving a booster at and adolescents. About one in ten of
one-year-old. those who contract the disease die, with
a further 20% suffering a major physical
Just ten months after the programme was
or neurological disability, such as limb or
launched, Public Health England (PHE)
hearing loss.
figures showed 83% percent effectiveness of
Bexsero against meningitis B. Bexsero is the only meningococcal B vaccine
licensed in Europe. In the past
two years, the numbers of doses of Bexsero
produced has grown from two million to a
cumulative total of ten million.32 GSK Annual Report 2016
Vaccines continued
Deliver Our Vaccines R&D work focuses on Following the positive scientific opinion
discovering and developing vaccines to from European regulators for our infant
help protect people against a broad range malaria vaccine Mosquirix, the World Health
Our broad pipeline
of diseases and conditions across all age Organization will start pilot implementation
includes vaccines targeting groups. We have a pipeline of 14 candidate of the vaccine in three sub-Saharan Africa
vaccines in early, mid and late stage countries in 2018. With our partners at the
shingles, meningitis, respiratory
development against a range of diseases. non-profit organisation PATH, we will donate
syncytial virus, group B doses of Mosquirix for the pilots.
In 2016, we received regulatory approval
streptococcus, and a new to expand the indication for FluLaval in the In a bid to assist with the Zika virus, we are
vaccine concept for COPD. US to cover infants from six months of age, evaluating a new vaccine technology known
rather than from three years. We obtained as SAM (self-amplifying mRNA), with the
approval in Europe for a label update for National Institutes of Health. We believe
Boostrix and Boostrix Polio with human this technology may potentially induce
safety data to support use in pregnant protective immunity against Zika.
women. We also launched our Hiberix
Investment and governance
vaccine in the US.
Our priorities are meeting patient needs
In 2016, we filed for regulatory approval and addressing global health challenges
in North America and Europe for our for which no vaccines yet exist, or where
candidate vaccine for the prevention of significant improvements could be made.
shingles and its complications. (See case Our vaccine R&D investment in 2016 was
study on page 30.) In 2017, we plan to file £597 million, up 2% from £525 million
for its use in Japan. in 2015.
We have a number of promising earlier In R&D, we complemented our existing
assets in our pipeline. For example, the global hubs, in Siena, Italy and Wavre,
candidate vaccines in phase II, are for Belgium, with the opening of a third centre,
meningococcal A,B,C,W,Y, respiratory in Rockville, Maryland, close to our major
syncytial virus (RSV), group B streptococcus US public health stakeholders. Our three
and exacerbations in chronic obstructive global centres each have their own area of
pulmonary disease (COPD). expertise in vaccine discovery and specific
assets in development while also benefiting
from scientific exchange between the three
world-class teams.
Vaccines research development cycle (industry average)
Identify Produce Pre-clinical Phase I Phase II Proof of Phase III File Registration/
antigens antigens testing concept post-marketing
surveillance
Research
(including immunology)
Pre-clinical development
Clinical development
(including post-marketing surveillance)
Transfer process to manufacturing
1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years >1 year33 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Simplify In 2016, we continued to further simplify Committed to quality
our operating model, strengthen our The discovery and development of new
manufacturing network, and reduce vaccines is a complex process. Our vaccines
We have continued to
supply costs. are manufactured to the highest quality
simplify our operating model standards, according to current Good
During the year, we completed the majority
Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations.
and realised significant savings. of the Novartis Vaccines business integration.
In 2016, we had 45 regulatory inspections
Cost savings generated in the Vaccines
and 38 had minor or no findings. In all
business have contributed to the delivery
cases, we worked with regulators to
of £3 billion of annual savings for the Group
address their observations.
by the end of 2016 (including £0.2 billion
currency benefit). These savings, combined
with strong sales growth, delivered improved
operating leverage and a profit margin of
31.7%. This was 5.3 percentage points
higher than in 2015 and 7.6 percentage
points higher on a pro-forma CER basis.
Investing in our supply chain
We have 16 vaccine manufacturing sites
in 11 countries. This international presence
enables us to manufacture our vaccines
with greater capacity, efficiency and flexibility.
We aim to keep critical production steps
in-house wherever possible, and during
the year we invested in new production
facilities at our Marburg site in Germany.
This will enable us to produce all of the
active components of our Bexsero vaccine
in-house, and adds a new mumps production
line for our combined measles, mumps,
rubella and varicella vaccine.
Responsible
Preparing for public health emergencies
business
GSK is committed to helping whenever we can when
public health crises occur.
When Ebola broke out in West Africa, we guidance from independent experts. It would
accelerated the development of our candidate have dedicated and permanent R&D and pilot
Ebola vaccine and, following the outbreak production facilities, and the capacity to
of Zika, we employed our novel technology respond rapidly to future global health
platforms to start a vaccine discovery programme emergencies.
with the US National Institutes
The BPO would operate on a no-profit,
of Health.
no-loss basis, with funding from both
However, responding after a life-threatening governments and non-governmental
disease surfaces is not enough. Vaccine research organisations.
and discovery is a lengthy process, typically taking
We also strongly support the Coalition for
10 to 15 years. To have the
Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI)
best chance to save lives, the global community
and its focus on vaccines development as a
has to prepare itself in advance.
solution to protecting against infectious
For this reason, we are proposing to create a disease outbreaks. We stand ready to partner
dedicated and permanent ‘biopreparedness with CEPI to advance epidemic
organisation’ (BPO) at our Global Vaccines R&D preparedness.
Centre in Rockville. The planned facility would
design, develop and manufacture new vaccines
against potential public health threats, with
targeted pathogens selected and prioritised with3344 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
Consumer Healthcare
Our Consumer Healthcare business develops and
markets products in Wellness, Oral health, Nutrition
and Skin health. Our portfolio includes some of the
world’s most trusted and best-selling brands, such
as Sensodyne, Voltaren and Panadol.3355 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
A migraine is more than
just a headache. Excedrin
is helping people in the US
manage their symptoms.
Grow Deliver Simplify Responsible
business
£7.2bn 13% 15.5%
Sales increased 19% of sales in 2016 were Operating profit margin Our Panadol power brand
AER and 9% CERa (5% from product innovations was 15.5% in 2016, 4.2 is helping raise awareness
pro-forma CER) in 2016, launched over past percentage points higher of dengue fever.
with growth broadly three years. than in 2015 and 3.7
balanced across the percentage points higher
US, Europe and on a CER pro-forma basis.
International markets.
Footnote
a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures to report the performance of our business, as described on page 57, including
core results, free cash flow and CER and pro-forma growth rates. Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition to, but not
as a substitute for or superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.36 GSK Annual Report 2016
Consumer Healthcare
Our Consumer Healthcare business* is Nutrition
Our Consumer Healthcare split almost equally between over-the- Our Nutrition business includes Horlicks,
counter (OTC) medicines and fast moving the long established wheat, milk and malted
business is a world-
consumer goods (FMCG), across our four barley drink.
leading over-the-counter categories of Wellness, Oral health, Nutrition
Skin health
and Skin health.
and consumer healthcare We are in the top three, by sales, globally
Wellness in medicated skin health which treats
products company. We are the global leader in Wellness, which such conditions as cold sores and dry
is our largest category, and number one in and sensitive skin. Our Abreva and Zovirax
36 countries by retail sales. We have leading brands hold leading positions in some
global positions in respiratory, cold and flu, of the world’s largest markets.
nasal decongestants, allergy, smoking
Power brands
cessation, and pain management, where
We prioritise seven global power brands
we have two of the top four brands, Panadol
– Otrivin, Panadol, parodontax, Poligrip,
and Voltaren.
Sensodyne, Theraflu and Voltaren – and
Oral health 12 regional core brands, including Flonase,
We are a top three company, globally, Horlicks and Tums. These brands, including
by sales in toothpaste and the number Physiogel, benefit from our broad geographic
one in specialist oral health, globally and footprint and a combined focus on scientific
in 50 countries, with leading positions in expertise and consumer insight.
sensitivity, acid erosion, denture care and
gum health. In 2016, Sensodyne became
our first £1 billion consumer healthcare
* Represents the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
brand, making it the third-largest product
with Novartis together with the GSK Consumer
by sales in the whole GSK portfolio. Healthcare listed businesses in India and Nigeria.
Managing migraine symptoms
Excedrin brought home the painful reality of migraines
with a recent virtual reality campaign.
Excedrin, one of the top over-the-counter brands The four worked with VR experts to create the
in sales in the US, launched a visual effects they experience during attacks,
virtual reality (VR) campaign to correct including blurred vision, flashes, object
misunderstandings of migraines. The campaign, ‘auras’, room spinning and partial blindness.
which included multi-channel
The campaign made an enormous impact on
media activity, an expert celebrity panel
social media, with over 17 million views and
discussion and a high profile New York event, was
almost 500,000 engagements, such as
launched in March 2016. Product sales rose 15%
shares of the film, comments and re-tweets.
during the campaign and have shown double digit
growth over the year.
Excedrin created the campaign after its customer
insight research showed that
88% of sufferers felt misunderstood.
The documentary-style film featured
a ‘migraine simulator’, developed with
the help of four migraine sufferers.37 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Grow 2016 performance summary In Europe, sales grew 12% to £2,191 million
Consumer Healthcare sales grew 19% (4% pro-forma). Good momentum across
at actual rates, 9% CER and 5% on a Germany, Scandinavia and Italy was partly
Strong growth in our
pro-forma basis to £7,193 million. offset by the impact of challenging economic
Oral health and Wellness conditions in the Commonwealth of
On a category basis there was growth
Independent States. Voltaren grew in
power brands helped in Wellness (15%), Oral health (8%) and
double-digits as a result of the continued
Skin health (4%). This was partly offset
Consumer Healthcare success of the 12-hour variant, while in
by Nutrition which declined 8%.
to a 9% increase in reported Oral health, Sensodyne and the Gum health
At a brand level, Sensodyne, Panadol portfolio also recorded strong growth.
sales (+5% pro-forma), and Otrivin performed strongly. Sales
In International markets, sales grew 8%
to £7.2 billion. of Sensodyne reached £1 billion for the
(5% pro-forma) to £3,241 million. Growth
first time. Sales from innovation within the
was impacted by the sale of the Nigerian
last three years represented 13% of sales,
beverages business on 30 September
with a particular contribution from Flonase,
2016 and the effective cessation of
which was switched to OTC in Q1 2015.
trade in Venezuela at the end of 2015.
Other notable launches in 2016 included
Demonetisation implemented in India
Sensodyne True White and Excedrin
in November also impacted the Indian
Gel-tabs in the US.
business. Sales in the Middle East, Latin
Growth was broadly balanced across America and China grew particularly
our three global geographies. US sales strongly as a result of better pricing and
grew 9% to £1,761 million (5% pro-forma) new product introductions.
driven primarily by Sensodyne delivering
double-digit growth following the launch
All growth rates are at CER, a
of True White combined with strong
non-IFRS measure as described on
momentum from Pronamel. Within Wellness,
page 57, unless otherwise stated.
Flonase OTC grew strongly in the first half
following line extensions.
New over-the-counter launch extends Flonase brand
We continue to see success in switching products from
prescription-only to over-the-counter.
In 2016 the FDA approved Flonase Sensimist The new product acts on multiple inflammatory
Allergy Relief for seasonal and perennial substances and has additional features such
allergies. This builds on our success in moving as being suitable for children as young as two
products from prescription-only years old, being scent and alcohol-free, and
to over-the-counter (OTC) in the USA. causing little or no drip while it is being
The product was launched in February 2017, in applied.
time for the allergy season. In making the
By bringing Sensimist under the Flonase
product available OTC, we are meeting
Allergy Relief umbrella, we aim to build on
consumer demand for greater control
Flonase’s market success.
over their personal healthcare.
The product was formerly available only on
prescription as Veramyst. In managing the
switch to OTC, we drew on the regulatory
insights of our Pharmaceuticals business
which helped us navigate through the highly
regulated pharmaceutical environment.38 GSK Annual Report 2016
Consumer Healthcare continued
Deliver The success of our Consumer Healthcare We continue to see success in moving
business is built on our ability to understand products from prescription-only to over-
customer needs and meet them with effective the-counter, with the approval and launch
Our success in delivering
products from our strong research pipeline. of Flonase Sensimist Allergy Relief in the
consumer-driven, science-led In 2016, we refocused our investment in US in 2017. (See case study on page 37).
innovation to ensure we achieve a high return
innovation enabled us to Understanding consumers’ everyday
and delivered 30 new-to-market product
healthcare needs, views and product
generate our best-ever sales launches. During 2016, 13% of our sales
preferences is an integral part of our new
from recent launches. were generated from innovations launched product development process. As digital
over the past three years – our highest
technology becomes central to all our lives,
level ever.
we are exploring ways – both internally and
In 2016, R&D investment in Consumer in discussion with external entrepreneurs
Healthcare was £243 million (2015 – and inventors – of harnessing digital
13% £258 million). We prioritise investment capability to improve consumer health.
on our power and core brands, with our We continued to invest in state-of-the-art
strategic focus now on fewer but bigger digital and real life innovation by opening
innovations. In 2016, examples included new US shopper and sensory labs.
of our sales were generated from
Sensodyne True White, Excedrin Gel-tabs, (See case study below).
innovations launched over the past
a new Eno ajwain herb flavour variant in
three years. In 2016, we strengthened our commitment
India and Otrivin Oxy which was launched
to R&D in India, building headcount to
a record six months from conception.
~200 people – a significant increase versus
both legacy organisations. Our increased
focus on innovation in this area is already
paying off, with seven market-first innovations
launched in the region over the course of
the year. Two of our six R&D hubs are now
based in emerging markets, a region that
represents over a third of our business.
The science of consumer insight
Our new innovation labs in the US increased our ability
to understand and deliver unmet consumer needs.
Following the success of our UK innovation labs – A shopper science facility that enables
we launched three labs based at our us to work with our retail partners on the
new US Consumer Healthcare HQ in Warren. best way to present products in store.
They enable us to integrate customer insights into
Together, the labs are enabling us to discover
all stages of product development, from
fresh insights and develop tailor-made
the original inception of an idea to an item’s
products to meet the needs
positioning on the store shelf. They include:
of our consumers and retailers. This helps us
– An R&D suite combining flexible work to meet our ambition of becoming first choice
spaces with rapid prototyping capabilities; for shoppers and customers.
allowing us to move swiftly from concept
to manufacture, whether of tablets, liquids,
powders or creams.
– Consumer sensory capabilities to assess
how people use products. It includes
simulated environments where our products
are often found, for example, the bathroom,
doctor’s consulting room, a shop and
pharmacy.39 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Simplify During 2016, we completed the majority In 2016, unified branding was rolled
of the integration enabling us to increase out to all integrated sites and more than
our emphasis on core innovation and to 10,000 artwork changes were delivered.
We continued to further
deliver stronger growth from our brands.
Our streamlining efforts also involved
simplify and streamline our Incremental annual cost savings in 2016
59 markets moving to standardised
helped to increase the operating profit
Consumer Healthcare business platforms over the course of the year,
margin by 4.2 percentage points to 15.5%.
and we are on track to deliver against
and increased our operating This was 3.4 percentage points higher than
our synergy targets.
profit margin. in 2015 on a CER basis and 3.7 percentage
points higher on a CER pro-forma basis. Committed to quality
We remain on track to deliver the annual cost Our Consumer Healthcare products
savings anticipated, and to deliver our target are manufactured to the highest quality
operating margin of at least 20% by 2020. standards, according to current Good
Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) regulations.
Our consolidation activities over the year
In 2016, we had 56 regulatory inspections,
resulted in a reduction of costs and
all with satisfactory outcomes.
overheads. We established common
distribution routes and shared enterprise
resource planning platforms, enabling
access to data across the organisation
and more informed decision making.
Responsible
Helping communities to better identify, prevent and treat dengue fever
business A GSK-led health campaign encouraged better understanding
of how to manage the disease.
Mosquito-borne dengue fever causes around It included 48 ‘train the trainer’ sessions,
400 million infections and 20,000 deaths to refresh physicians’ and pharmacists’
each year. It is endemic in more than 100 knowledge of the virus; the recruitment
countries, particularly across the South East of 21,000 voluntary ‘dengue warriors’
Asia and Western Pacific regions. to spread the word about prevention and
treatment; and the distribution of ‘dengue
Paracetamol, in Panadol, can help treat some
proficiency kits’ to healthcare professionals.
of the symptoms of dengue fever,
so GSK Consumer Healthcare launched the Assisted by wide media coverage,
Allied Against Dengue campaign the campaign’s impact was dramatic.
in 2016 in Malaysia, Indonesia and the In Malaysia, after three years of rising
Philippines. It brought together GSK and our mortality rates, the campaign contributed
Panadol power brand with doctors, pharmacy towards the number of deaths falling
chains, governments and non-government by 39%.
organisations.
The campaign also helped increase our
The campaign has helped educate regional Consumer Healthcare product
seven million people about the disease. sales. In the Philippines alone, net sales
increased by 48% in Q3 2016, versus
the same period in 2015.4400 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
Responsible business
Being a responsible business is central
to our strategy, how we deliver success
is as important as the results we achieve.4411 GGSSKK AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22001166
SSttrraatteeggiicc rreeppoorrtt
GGoovveerrnnaannccee aanndd rreemmuunneerraattiioonn
FFiinnaanncciiaall ssttaatteemmeennttss
IInnvveessttoorr iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn
We have expanded our
graduated approach to
filing and enforcing patents
and intellectual property to
widen access to medicines
in the poorest countries.
Health for all Our behaviour Our people Our planet
1.3m 99% 75 18%
countries
Our partnership with Our mandatory annual Our Partnership for We have cut operational
Save the Children reached training on our code of Prevention programme carbon emissions (Scope
an additional 1.3 million conduct was completed is being rolled out 1 and 2) by 18% since
children in 2016 with by 99% of our employees globally and is offering 2010. Total value chain
treatments, immunisations and complementary unprecedented access to emissions have risen by
and other interventions. workers in 2016.a preventive healthcare for 1% as we extend access
almost 100,000 employees to our medicines, and we
and their family members are working to address this.
in 75 countries.
Footnote
a The remaining 1% represents employees who did not complete the training in the required timeframe and are subject to
disciplinary action (see page 47) and employees still within the completion timeframe (e.g. new starters)42 GSK Annual Report 2016
Responsible business
By being commercially Creating value for society Our responsible business priorities
By developing innovative healthcare GSK’s responsible business priorities sit
successful and operating
products, we directly benefit patients and within the context of the macro-economic
responsibly, we will improve consumers. Our equitable pricing strategy, and social trends that affect all companies
which allows prices to reflect a country’s and wider society. These trends present
people’s health and benefit ability to pay, and global footprint enables both opportunities and challenges for global
greater access to our medicines, vaccines healthcare companies like GSK (see page 8).
society, as well as create
and consumer healthcare products.
We report our progress across four areas:
value for our shareholders. By delivering profitable and sustainable
Health for all, Our behaviour, Our people,
business performance, we generate value
and Our planet. We identified our priorities
and returns for our shareholders and can
in these areas by understanding the issues
reinvest in the business. Over and above
that are most important to our business and
this, wider society benefits as healthy
to our stakeholders.
people are essential to building strong
and sustainable communities. Our longer-term commitments across the
four areas reflect global health needs and
We make significant direct and indirect
align with GSK’s strategic priorities and
economic contributions to the countries
our values. We detail our progress against
and communities where we operate through
these commitments in our responsible
tax, our employment of 99,300 people
business supplement available at
and charitable support.
www.gsk.com/responsibility.
A graduated approach to intellectual property
We have expanded our approach to filing and enforcing patents
to reflect a country’s economic maturity.
In 2016, we announced that we would adapt our The agreement enables dolutegravir to be
current approach to filing and enforcing patents made available for adults through generic
to ensure that we balance the need manufacturers, with royalty fees tiered
to protect our intellectual property with a depending on national gross domestic
country’s economic maturity. product, following approval from regulators.
This means that 94% of people living with HIV
This means that we will no longer file patents for
in the developing world are now covered by
medicines in the least-developed countries and
the licence agreement.
low-income countries. In lower middle income
countries, we will apply for patents when we We have also outlined our intent to commit our
think it appropriate but also offer licences that future portfolio of cancer treatments
allow supplies of generic versions of our to patent pooling and will work with the
medicines to these countries (other than G20 Medicines Patent Pool to explore how this can
countries) for ten years. help address the increasing burden of cancer
in developing countries.
In line with this approach, in 2016 ViiV
Healthcare expanded its licence agreement
with the Medicines Patent Pool for the adult
formulation of their HIV drug dolutegravir
to include the vast majority of lower
middle income countries.43 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Measuring We have well-established, long-term It also cites our company-wide ownership for
responsible commitments which sit across access as a key strength, together with our
progress four areas: Health for all, Our behaviour, commitment to research and development
Our people and Our planet. We also for low and middle income countries and
measure our performance in the Access high-priority medical needs.
to Medicine Index and Dow Jones
At the beginning of 2017 we also performed
Sustainability Index.
well in the first ever Access to Vaccines
Access to Medicine Index Index, leading in all three categories under
In 2016, GSK topped the Access to consideration.
Medicine Index for the fifth consecutive time.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index
This means we have led every edition of the
In 2016, we came third in our sector in the
biannual index since its 2008 launch.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index. The Index
The Access to Medicine Index is funded by analyses the economic, environmental and
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the social performance of the world’s leading
UK and Dutch governments. It measures the companies. Our overall percentile ranking
top 20 pharmaceutical companies’ efforts to increased from 89th in 2015 to 95th in
improve access to healthcare in developing 2016, meaning we scored within the top
countries. We led our peers in three of the 5% of our sector.
2016 index’s seven categories: research
We led the industry in code of business
and development; pricing, manufacturing
conduct, climate strategy, environmental
and distribution; and product donations.
reporting and health outcome contributions,
The index describes GSK as ‘the most and had strong performance in corporate
access-oriented company’ and recognises governance, marketing practices, risk and
our clear strategy on increasing access crisis management, tax and corporate
to medicines, which is aligned with our citizenship.
corporate strategy.
Progress against our responsible business commitments
Our 2016 assessment shows that three of our commitments are complete, 14 are progressing well, five are on track, and one has more
work to do. For more details about our performance, see our Responsible Business Supplement at www.gsk.com/responsibility.
Health for all Our behaviour
Progress Progress
Innovation for unmet medical needs Completed Ethical conduct Progressing well
Better access to medicines and vaccines Progressing well Promoting values in sales and Progressing well
marketing practices
Building products to better meet needs Progressing well
Strengthening healthcare infrastructure Progressing well Transparency in clinical trial data Completed
Fighting malaria Progressing well Rigorous patient and consumer safety Progressing well
Eliminating and controlling neglected Progressing well Minimising animal testing On track
tropical diseases Ensuring ethical interactions Progressing well
Eradicating polio Progressing well Promoting human rights On track
Access to antiretroviral treatment for HIV Progressing well Working with third parties On track
Reducing child mortality Progressing well
Our people Our planet
Progress Progress
Developing our people in inspiring Progressing well Aiming to be carbon neutral Work needed
and healthy workplaces
Reducing our water impact Progressing well
Promoting inclusion and diversity On track Reducing our waste On track
Community volunteering to Completed
create change44 GSK Annual Report 2016
Responsible business continued
Our approach In 2016, our gel to help prevent umbilical
Health for all We are tackling some of the greatest cord infections in newborns received a
global health challenges by innovating to positive scientific opinion from the European
meet unmet needs, making our medicines Medicines Agency (EMA). Three million
We are committed to
and vaccines more accessible, and babies die each year from infection, often
developing innovative strengthening healthcare systems. when the newly-cut umbilical cord attracts
products and extending Innovating for unmet needs bacteria – a particular issue in developing
countries. If approved by local regulators, we
access to healthcare to We aim to develop innovative products
will make the gel available at a not-for-profit
for diseases that disproportionately affect
more people, no matter price and share manufacturing knowledge
the world’s poorest people and where
so it can be widely made.
where they live or their need is greatest.
Our Mosquirix vaccine targets a significant
ability to pay. In 2016, we committed to working with
health threat – malaria. Phase III trials of the
governments, multinational organisations
vaccine, which received a positive opinion
and NGOs to enhance preparedness
from the EMA in 2015, have shown the
against potential future outbreaks of
vaccine could have a considerable public
diseases such as Ebola and Zika. We
health impact when used in combination
are supporting the Coalition for Epidemic
with malaria control measures.
Preparedness Innovation (CEPI) (see case
study on page 33) and are proposing In 2016, the World Health Organization
to create a permanent ‘biopreparedness confirmed that full funding has been
organisation’ (BPO) at our Rockville, committed to enable the pilot implementation
Maryland Vaccines site. of Mosquirix in three settings in sub-Saharan
Africa due to begin in early 2018.
Protecting refugees with essential vaccines
We are supplying essential vaccines at our lowest price to civil
society organisations for use in acute humanitarian situations.
Along with their homes, livelihoods and great humanitarian need where governments
communities, refugees often lose easy are unable to assist,
access to healthcare, leaving them potentially by developing a reliable and predictable
vulnerable to vaccine-preventable disease. supply to CSOs that have stepped in.
At the same time, we will continue to work
In response, GSK has committed to supply
with partners to strengthen the long-term
essential vaccines to internationally recognised
capacity of local health systems to support
civil society organisations (CSOs) – such
refugees and host communities.
as Médecins Sans Frontières and Save the
Photo: Nour Wahid/Save the Children Children – at our lowest prices, for use in This pledge comes as tens of thousands
acute humanitarian situations where governments of refugees continue to flee conflict in Syria,
are unable to assist. South Sudan and elsewhere.
It builds on decades of effort by GSK, working
The first vaccine to be covered by this commitment
with partners, to increase
is Synflorix, our pneumococcal vaccine that
access to our vaccines through charities
protects children against diseases such as
responding to emergencies.
pneumonia. Working with partners such as Gavi,
the Vaccine Alliance, we will provide Synflorix at a
deeply discounted price to charities that fund and
deliver immunisation programmes to refugees and
displaced people. In the future, we will explore
extending this offer to other essential vaccines.
Our commitment is designed to help maintain
stable vaccination programmes during times of45 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
We also share our expertise, resources We also understand payer and patient
£21m and intellectual property with external concerns about affordability in developed
researchers. Our open innovation lab in markets and we are leading efforts to
Tres Cantos, Spain, has built up a portfolio develop sustainable solutions. For example,
of 63 research projects looking at diseases in the USA, the last six GSK pharmaceutical
Since 2009, we have invested £21million in
of the developing world since 2010. It had products were launched similar to or
39 countries and trained 43,000 frontline
20 visiting scientists in 2016 and results below prices to the medicines we aim to
health workers who have reached 17.5
million people. from the lab have led to papers in more supersede. In 2016, we integrated three
than 50 scientific publications. Our Africa of our US patient assistance programmes
Non-Communicable Diseases Open Lab into one GSK Patient Assistance Program,
is currently focusing on cardiovascular which is designed to simplify and improve
disease, oncology, chronic respiratory the programme experience for eligible
disease, chronic kidney disease and uninsured patients and patients with a
diabetes. Its first project looks at severe Medicare Part D prescription Drug Plan.
asthma across East Africa, led by Uganda’s
In Europe, we continue to engage with
Makerere University.
payers in all EU markets to balance affordable
Extending affordability and availability cost to healthcare systems through funding
We are committed to widening access to solutions which also support ongoing
Our charitable giving in 2016 totalled our medicines and vaccines. Our equitable innovation for medicines. We have achieved
£210.2 million (2015 – £208.3 million)
pricing strategy is based on the country, reimbursement for our Ellipta portfolio in
disease area, product type, and patient’s most EU markets by finding local solutions
ability to pay. when issues of affordability challenged the
introduction of new innovation.
Since 2010, we have capped the prices
of our patented medicines and vaccines Strengthening healthcare systems
in the least-developed countries (LDCs) We reinvest 20% of our profits from the
at 25% of the prices in the EU5 (France, sales of our Pharmaceuticals and Consumer
Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK), as long Healthcare products in LDCs to strengthen
as our manufacturing costs are covered. healthcare infrastructure in these nations.
Since 2009, working with Amref Health
We offer our lowest vaccine prices to
Africa, CARE International and Save the
organisations such as Gavi, the Vaccine
Product & in-kind £127.2m Children, we have invested £21 million
Cash £67.3m Alliance, which supports countries with in 39 countries, reached 17.5 million people
Management £12.3m a low gross national income. In 2016, we
and trained 43,000 frontline health workers.
Time (PULSE) £3.4m delivered more than 74 million doses of
our Synflorix vaccine against pneumoccal Through our pioneering partnership with
disease and more than 35 million doses Save the Children, we reached 1.3 million
of Rotarix, our vaccine against rotavirus children with live-saving interventions
gastroenteritis. in 2016, bringing the total number to
2.6 million. Since 2013, over one million
In middle-income countries, where many
children have been screened for malnutrition,
still live in poverty, our equitable pricing
more than 86,500 under-fives have been
approach enables more people to access
immunised, over 290,000 children have
our products. In Egypt, we offer a portfolio
been vaccinated against measles or polio,
of prices to meet the needs of all levels
and over 183,000 have been treated for
of income, including a price reduction
diarrhoea, malaria or pneumonia.
of Seretide inhaler devices targeted to
middle and lower income groups.46 GSK Annual Report 2016
Responsible business continued
Our approach Working with third parties
Our behaviour We aim to have a values-based culture by We expect our suppliers to share our high
training our people on the standards we ethical standards. In 2016, we increased
expect, encouraging the reporting of any our use of preferred suppliers, bringing
Our values underpin
concerns and embedding our values into them to more than 90% of our global
everything we do – from the way we measure employee performance. purchase order spend. We continued the
ensuring rigorous safety Patient and consumer safety roll-out of our global third-party oversight
programme, which reached a total of
standards to how we We manufacture our medicines and vaccines
43 countries across Latin America and
according to current Good Manufacturing
interact with healthcare South East Asia. The programme aims
Practice regulations and our internal Quality
to drive improvements in our supply chain
professionals. Management System.
and distributor network and ensure that
In 2016, we had 167 regulatory inspections the third parties we engage with support
of our manufacturing sites and 86% of our values.
these received no observations or minor
In 2016, we also completed over 70 third-
observations.a Eleven of the inspections
party audits on health and safety, ethics,
GSK values were conducted by the US Food and environment and labour rights. We also
Drug Administration (FDA), of which five
conducted a further 1,850 audits focused
resulted in a Form 483 being issued to
specifically on quality processes. Where
sites, citing deficiencies to current Good
we identify areas for improvement, we
Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). None
engage with the respective third parties to
of these observations had any direct impact
develop improvement plans and track their
on product supply from our sites, and
completion with the overall aim of enhancing
corrective action plans to mitigate the
performance in the supply chain. We may
observations have been submitted to
also suspend or terminate work with a
the FDA in all cases.
third-party if significant issues are identified.
Transparency in clinical trial data
Training our people
GSK was the first company to sign up to
In 2016, we updated our Code of Conduct
AllTrials, which campaigns for every clinical
and accompanying annual training to give
trial to be registered and its results reported.
people a deeper understanding of how to
We have been leading the industry in clinical
apply our values in their everyday activities.
study transparency over the past decade.
In 2016, we publicly posted more than In 2016, 99%b of our employees and
We expect all employees to act in line
1,900 clinical study reports and more than complementary workers completed
with our values.
6,000 result summaries. mandatory training on the code. The code
of conduct training enables the learner
Researchers can submit proposals to
to understand and manage the risks
request access to the details of around
associated with our business activities.
2,000 of our clinical trials through the
This includes anti-bribery and corruption
www.clinicalstudydatarequest.com website.
risk, to which we maintain a zero tolerance
An independent panel reviews proposals
approach. More than 70,000 people working
for scientific merit and to ensure patient
in high risk roles completed additional
privacy and confidentiality are protected.
in-depth anti-bribery and corruption training
In 2016, 88 proposals were approved and
to help them understand how to manage
66 research teams were granted access
particular challenges they may face in their
to anonymised patient-level data.
daily work.
We have also begun providing plain
Reporting and investigating concerns
language summaries of our clinical studies
We centrally track misconduct allegations
on our online clinical study register.
and concerns through our multiple Speak
Up channels. In 2016, our investigations
team received 2,568 reports, a 21%
reduction since 2015.
Footnotes
a At this time we are still awaiting 11 reports from
2016 inspections.
b T he remaining 1% represents employees who did
not complete the training in the required time and are
subject to disciplinary action, as well as those who are
still within the completion timeframe (e.g. new starters).47 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Disciplinary action and safety and ensuring these are
Employees disciplined in 2016:
We take action when employees fail to act communicated consistently through our
breakdown of types of policy violation
in line with our policies. During the year, revised third-party contracts. We monitor
2% 3,600 employees were disciplined for policy existing suppliers and screen new ones.
2%
2% 8% violations (2015 – 3,574), including 499 Our approach to tax
3% 3% employees for failing to complete mandatory We understand our responsibility to pay
training (Code of Conduct and Anti-bribery
5% an appropriate amount of tax and we fully
and Corruption) within the required
44% support efforts to ensure companies are
8% timeframe. Of the total disciplined, 2,499
transparent about how they manage their
employees received a documented warning
12% tax affairs.
(2015 – 2,890), 547 had verbal warnings
14% (2015 – 297) and 221 were dismissed or We pay a significant amount of tax in the UK,
agreed to leave the company voluntarily where most of our global corporate functions
(2015 – 387). Most of these were related and significant manufacturing and R&D
Attendance and Marketing and
payroll promotional activities to attendance and payroll which included facilities are located, and in other countries
Training completion Code of conduct disciplinary actions related to employee around the world where we have a substantial
Good manufacturing Falsification of absence, punctuality or misstating hours business and employment presence.
and distribution documents worked. Over the past 16 years, we have paid
practices Travel and expense
Local work regulations Environment, health Human rights £28.9 billion in corporation tax globally.
violations and safety GSK is a signatory to the UN Global Of this, £2.8 billion, nearly 10% of the
Other Compact, which sets out key principles global total, was paid in the UK. Read
for business on human rights. We are more on page 178.
committed to upholding the Universal We do not engage in artificial tax
Declaration of Human Rights and the arrangements – those without business
International Labour Organisation’s core or commercial substance. At the same
labour standards. time, we have a responsibility to our
We focus on those areas where our shareholders to be financially efficient
operations have the biggest potential impact and deliver a sustainable tax rate.
on human rights. We manage human rights Further details on our approach to tax and
risks in the supply chain by reinforcing our our tax disclosures can be found on page 55.
requirements on labour rights and health
Putting patients’ interests first
We continue to lead the industry in modernising
the way we market and sell our medicines.
Since January 2016, we stopped paying sales teams are compensated. Since January
healthcare professionals (HCPs) to speak 2015, our pharmaceutical medical sales
to other prescribers about our medicines representatives are no longer compensated
and vaccines. Instead, we have strengthened our for individual sales targets. Instead they are
online resources to supplement information rewarded on their technical skills, scientific
provided by our salesforce. knowledge, quality of service, and broader
business performance.
We have also significantly expanded our
global team of in-house medical experts to provide Our new approach is being well received:
information about our medicines and vaccines to following medical product information
HCPs in ways that are convenient to them. We sessions with GSK experts in over 60
now have around 400 medical experts dedicated countries, 92% of more than 42,000
exclusively to supporting HCPs, and a further 900 HCPs agreed the interaction helped them
who also engage make a more informed decision, benefiting
with them as part of their roles. patient care. Around 79% rated their
experience as superior to similar interactions
Where we do pay HCPs – for activities such
with other pharmaceutical companies. We
as clinical or market research that help us develop
have also seen an improvement in customer
medicines and vaccines to meet patients’ needs
trust. In a
– we are transparent about these transactions.
survey of US HCPs in 2016, GSK ranked first
We now disclose all payments made to HCPs in
for customer trust for the fourth year
32 markets
in a row, and for customer value for the
across Europe (including Russia and Ukraine),
third time.
Australia, Japan and the US.
We have also changed the way GSK48 GSK Annual Report 2016
Responsible business continued
Our approach We put particular emphasis on leadership
Our people We need a talented and motivated workforce development. In 2016, we trained around
to deliver against our strategy. To achieve 3,500 people to support their promotion to
this, we strive to attract the best people first and second line leader roles; continued
We aim to create a safe
and to create an environment that empowers to evolve our global leadership development
and inclusive environment and inspires. Our people strategy focuses programmes; and have found that managers
where everyone can reach on talent, leadership, performance and who complete them show significant
engagement. improvement in effectiveness based on
their full potential.
feedback from their teams.
Talent and leadership
Our talent and leadership programmes We also trained 245 leaders as coaches,
focus on developing our employees at all with our strategic use of coaching being
levels with the skills they need to advance recognised as world-class by the
their careers. International Coach Federation’s Prism
Award.
In 2016, we welcomed 465 graduates
and postgraduates onto our Future Leaders Performance and engagement
and Esprit programmes, including 164 Our global performance system centres
from emerging markets. GSK was voted on a set of clear expectations that
top graduate employer for Research and emphasises not just the results people
Development in The Times Top 100 achieve, but the way they achieve them
Graduate Employers 2016 (for the 19th in line with our values.
successive year) and ranked 13th overall.
Listening to our people is essential for
employee engagement. Responding even
more so. During the year, we responded to
the insights from our 2015 global employee
survey, which 78% of employees completed.
Members of our CET hosted five ‘listening
sessions’ with over 200 senior leaders.
They then conducted discussions on the
topics raised, including how we evaluate
performance.
Future Leaders programme
Building the next generation of leaders.
Our Future Leaders programme is delivering the The programme is rated highly by participants.
fresh ideas and talent needed to continue driving A recent survey of alumni
our success across key markets. from the Future Leaders programme found
that 89% of respondents felt the rotations
It provides graduates with a breadth of potential
helped them to develop relevant skills and
career pathways – from R&D and finance, to
experience for their career at GSK.
marketing and procurement –
with the option to move between functions during The benefits to the business are also clear.
several job rotations. The number and geographical spread of the
intake means we have home-grown leaders
Such job rotations make up 70% of the
rooted in all our markets, including emerging
programme, with feedback, mentoring and
countries. In 2016, we had 441 new recruits
coaching constituting a further 20%, and formal
representing 59 nationalities from 58
training the remainder. This balance enables
441 countries – up from 130 from
graduates to develop the specific
eight nations in 2012.
skills to be effective in their individual role
and business, while getting a broad grasp
of the company and learning GSK’s
graduates joined our Future Leaders
distinctive global leadership approach.
programme in 201649 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Women in management (%) To monitor progress, we have also Employee volunteering
introduced ‘pulse’ surveys to evaluate In 2016, 73 GSK employees from
2014 2015 2016 the impact of engagement efforts at more 25 countries contributed £3.4 million
SVP/VP 29 29 30 regular intervals than our annual survey. worth of skilled services to 31 non-profit
Director 40 40 42 partners in 27 countries, through our
Promoting inclusion and diversity
Manager 45 45 46 The diverse perspectives and experiences PULSE Volunteer Partnership. They
Total 42 42 43 of our global workforce strengthen our worked on assignments aligned to
worldwide healthcare challenges and
business and help us meet the needs
the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Employees by gender (number) of our patients and consumers.
Health and wellbeing
The percentage of women in management
Male Female Total As a healthcare company we think hard
rose to 43% in 2016, and women
Board 9 4 13 about how we can best support not only
represented 15% of our Corporate Executive
Management* 9,537 7,337 16,874 Team (CET) and 31% of our Board (this the health of our patients and consumers
Total 56,104 43,196 99,300 compares with an average of 26% among but also our employees. Through our global
energy and resilience training programmes
FTSE100 boards, according to the Cranfield
* Management: senior managers as defined in the and our innovative and ambitious Partnership
Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Board report).
for Prevention programme (P4P), we have
Report) Regulations 2013 which includes persons
responsible for planning, directing or controlling the In 2016, more than 200 women began created strong foundations.
activities of the company, or a strategically significant part our Accelerating Difference programme,
of the company, other than the Board, including directors which helps female leaders progress to Through P4P we now offer almost
or undertakings included in the consolidated accounts. 100,000 employees and family members
senior roles. The programme was
in 75 countries unprecedented access
recognised as best practice in Cranfield
to preventive healthcare services, such
University’s The Female FTSE Board
as immunisations and cancer screening,
73 Report 2016.
at little or no extra cost. In 2016 we extended
We are a global organisation and we want these services to India, Russia and the
our leaders to represent the varied markets Commonwealth of Independent States,
GSK employees from 25 countries we serve. Five nationalities are currently keeping us on track to achieve our goal
spent up to six months with 31 non-profit represented on the CET and the Board. of global coverage by 2018.
organisations to share their skills.
As part of our efforts to promote an Protecting our people
environment where everyone feels included, We want to prevent incidents before
in 2016, we established a Lesbian, Gay, they occur; however, as a global business
Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) Council. operating in more than 150 markets,
The Council is chaired by our President of injuries do occur.
Pharmaceuticals R&D, endorsed by the CET,
In 2016, we had a reportable injury and
and aims to engage and educate employees
illness rate of 0.26 per 100,000 hours
on LGBT issues. We achieved a 100%
worked which, according to Pharmaceutical
score in the Human Rights Campaign
Safety Group (PSG) data, is comparable
Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index
to other leading companies in our sector.
which rates workplaces on LGBT equality
Sadly, we had one fatality in 2016, a sales
in the US.
representative died as a result of a road
Making GSK a more accessible place to traffic incident in India. To try to prevent
work for people with disabilities is a priority road incidents we have driver safety
for us. We are working with the Global programmes in India, Indonesia and Vietnam,
Disability Council to develop an online with 4,000 people taking part in 2016.
accessibility portal which allows employees
to find information on support or adjustments
to their working environments. We are
committed to removing barriers, increasing
understanding and ensuring that those with
disabilities have the same opportunities.50 GSK Annual Report 2016
Responsible business continued
Our approach Our supply chain represents the largest
Our planet We aim to reduce our environmental impacts part of our value chain footprint (51%)
across our value chain while extending followed by the use of our products (30%).
access to our products, by minimising Our own operations, logistics and end of
We aim to reduce our
our carbon footprint, water use and life disposal make up the remaining 19%.
environmental impacts operational waste.
As our largest value chain impact, we focus
across our value chain Carbon on helping our suppliers make environmental
while extending access In 2016, our operational emissions (Scope improvements. For example, 188 suppliers
1 and 2) totalled 1.6 million tonnes of CO e; (covering £1 billion of our spend on direct
to our products. 2
this is broadly the same as the previous year raw materials) disclose information through
and represents an 18% decrease against Ecodesk, an online platform to monitor and
our 2010 baseline. We reduced our promote environmental improvements in
emissions through a continued focus on our supply chain. In addition, more than
energy efficiency, renewable energy and 350 suppliers use our online sustainability
investment in sustainable buildings. collaboration platform, the GSK Supplier
Exchange, to share best practice.
In 2016, we revised our calculation method
for our Scope 3 emissions with the current Certain products have a disproportionate
GHG protocol methodology which now effect on our value chain emissions,
includes the impact of purchased services, particularly our Ventolin propellant-based
capital investments, fuel and energy related inhalers, which emit greenhouse gases
activities, logistics upstream in the supply during use. We continue to research
chain, and all business travel and commuting. solutions to this issue, including changing
Based on this latest methodology, we the way we manufacture, to reduce the
increased our 2010 baseline figure to amount of propellant used, while maintaining
18.7 million tonnes of CO e from 15 million efficacy for patients.
2
tonnes of CO e.
2
In 2015a, our overall carbon footprint
(Scope 1, 2 and 3) increased from
17.8 million tonnes CO e in 2014 to
2
20.3 million tonnes of CO e due to the
2
Novartis integration. This represents an
8.5% increase to our overall footprint
versus our 2010 baseline. Excluding
Novartis, our footprint has remained
flat from 2010-2015 despite the volume
of medicines, vaccines and consumer
Footnote
healthcare products shipped from our
a Our most recently available Scope 3 data is
factories having increased by approximately
from 2015. We will publish 2016 data online
40% over the same period. in late 2017.
Carbon emissions plus intensity ratios (as per regulations)
Tonnes CO2ea 2013 2014 2015b 2016
Scope 1 emissions 1,040,928 851,113 885,155 893,418
Scope 2 emissions 788,149 744,973 730,168 716,448
Data available
Scope 3 emissions 16,630,521 16,093,060 18,690,183 May 2017
Intensity ratios 2013 2014 2015 2016
Scope 1 and 2 emissions/sales revenue
(tonnes CO2e/£m) 69.0 69.4 67.5 57.7
Scope 1 and 2/FTE
(tonnes CO2e/FTE) 18.4 16.3 16.0 16.2
a Carbon emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard (revised edition).
b Data includes former Novartis sites’ emissions and headcount.51 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Water An innovative project in Rajasthan, an arid
~70% Our new Water Stewardship Policy region of India, is now replenishing the water
reinforces our commitment to reduce source for the village of Sawaipura with
GSK’s water impact across the value chain. around a quarter of the amount of water that
We continue to look for ways to use water our three Horlicks factories located across
of our sites have successfully
more efficiently and reduce consumption. India use in their operations. Together with
achieved zero waste to landfill by re-
We used 14.5 million m3 of water across Alternative Development Initiatives, an Indian
purposing materials that would otherwise go
to waste, or by using waste-to-energy our operations in 2016, a 23% reduction NGO, we are also supporting communities
services. on 2010 and 3% less than 2015. around the Horlicks supply chain to improve
water management and agricultural yields.
The amount we use is just one aspect of
our overall water impact across our value Waste
chain, which includes factors such as local We aim to reduce our operational waste
water scarcity and quality, and health, social, by 50% by 2020, compared with 2010.
regulatory and reputational risks. In 2016, our operations produced 137
thousand tonnes of waste – 4% less than
We focus our efforts on a small number
the previous year and 23% below our 2010
of high-impact GSK sites in water-scarce
baseline. The majority (73%) was recycled
regions, and on the agricultural supply chain
or incinerated to recover energy, with only
for our Horlicks products, which makes up
5% sent to landfill. Around 70% of our sites
the biggest portion of our total value chain
have now achieved zero waste to landfill
water footprint.
by repurposing materials that would
otherwise go to waste, or by using
waste-to-energy services.
GSK recognised by CDP as leaders in climate change and water
GSK included in prestigious CDP ‘A list’ for climate and water.
Our efforts to reduce carbon emissions This has included reducing emissions during
were acknowledged with inclusion in the the manufacture of inhalers and launching our
CDP ‘Climate A List’. CDP assessed companies Complete the Cycle scheme, the first of its
globally from across ten industry sectors, we were kind to work with pharmacists and patients to
one of only 193 companies (9% of applicants) and recover and recycle inhalers. Such steps have
seven healthcare companies to be A-listed. helped us to reduce our operational
emissions by 18% since 2010.
Our high rating reflects the significant steps
we have taken to help meet our goal of becoming We were also one of only 24 (3% of
carbon neutral by 2050, while continuing to grow applicants) companies, and the only
our business and meet the healthcare needs of healthcare company to be included in
more people. the Water A List. This success reflects
our achievements in reducing water usage
by 23% since 2010 and our commitment to
water stewardship.52 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group
financial
review
In this section
CFO’s statement 53
Approach to tax 55
Viability statement 56
Reporting framework 57
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 58
Segmental review 59
Total results 64
Core results 68
Pro-forma growth rate reconciliations 70
Cash generation and conversion 71
Financial position and resources 72
Critical accounting policies 76
Treasury policies 7753 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Group financial review
Investor information
In 2016, we continued to make progress The items adjusted for between total and
in delivering against our strategy as well core results are consistent each year but
as the financial goals we have set out in those that were most significant in 2016
our financial architecture. All three of our include re-measurement charges related
businesses contributed to the delivery of to the liabilities for future contingent
more broadly-based revenue growth. Our consideration, most significantly the
continued focus on the execution of our consideration due to Shionogi related
integration and restructuring programmes to its former interest in dolutegravir, and
accelerated the delivery of the targeted the value of future put options as well as
benefits, allowing us to improve margins major restructuring charges.
and operating leverage, while still making
We continued to make IFRS requires us to provide for contingent
substantial investments behind new
consideration liabilities related to previous
progress in delivering products, and supply chain improvements,
business acquisitions on the basis of the
as well as progressing the R&D pipeline.
against our strategy as estimated present value of any potential
We have also maintained our focus on future payments. These estimates could have
well as the financial goals financial efficiency and in the allocation of a broad range of outcomes. The effect of the
our capital, allowing us to deliver core EPS IFRS accounting treatment is that GSK
we have set out in our
growtha ahead of sales growth and at the recognises these fair value liabilities in the
financial architecture. top end of our financial guidance, as well balance sheet, with any charges for re-
as a significant improvement in our cash measurement of them reflected immediately
generation and a dividend of 80 pence in other operating income. GSK will make
per share. cash payments in the future to discharge
these liabilities but as the liabilities were
Financial architecture
established on acquisition or through
Our financial architecture is designed to
Viability statement subsequent re-measurement charges to
support the consistent execution of our
Our viability statement sets out our the income statement, the payments will
strategy and to enhance the returns we
assessment of the prospects of the Group not be charged to future earnings.
over the next three years and is presented on deliver to shareholders. It is focused on
page 56. delivering more sustainable sales growth Sales growth
across the company, improving operating All three of our businesses delivered
leverage, or profitability, and enhancing our growth in line with or above the medium-
financial efficiency. This is with the objective term growth expectations we laid out for
of driving growth in EPS ahead of our sales them at our Capital Markets Day in 2015.
performance and then converting more Pharmaceuticals sales were up 14% at
of those earnings into cash that can be actual rates and 3% CER (4% pro-forma
used to invest in the business or returned CER) with growth from new products more
to shareholders, wherever we see the than offsetting the decline in Seretide/Advair
most attractive returns. sales. In addition to strong growth in HIV,
the respiratory portfolio returned to growth in
This clear set of priorities ensures
2016, up 13% at actual rates and 2% CER.
consistency in how capital is allocated
across and between the different businesses Vaccines sales were up 26% at actual rates
within GSK, with relative returns from each and 14% CER (12% pro-forma CER), driven
business benchmarked to relevant external by strong execution across the business,
comparatives using a Cash Flow Return on particularly around the flu and meningitis
Investment (CFROI) based framework of franchises, and Bexsero in particular.
metrics. Specific capital investments are
Consumer Healthcare delivered a strong
also benchmarked in a similar way.
performance in the first full year of the joint
Reporting framework venture with sales up 19% at actual rates
In addition to total or reported results, and 9% CER (5% pro-forma CER) as
prepared under IFRS, the Annual Report growth from the seven power brands more
makes reference to a number of core than offset some tough comparators and
performance measures which are used headwinds in international markets.
by management for planning and reporting
Operating leverage
purposes. These are non-IFRS measures
The total operating margin was 9.3%
adjusted for a number of items management
of sales compared with 43.1% in 2015,
believe it is useful to separate so that the
the movement primarily reflecting the
key trends driving the performance of the
combination of higher remeasurement
business can be more clearly identified by
charges for the Consumer Healthcare put
Footnote shareholders. Core results may, however, option and the ViiV Healthcare contingent
a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures vary significantly from total results as some
consideration liability in 2016, and the
to report the performance of our business, as of the adjustments may be material, as was
described on page 57, including core results, free benefit to 2015 of the profit on the disposal
the case in 2016.
cash flow and CER and pro-forma growth rates. of the Oncology business in that year.
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition
to, but not as a substitute for or superior to,
information presented in accordance with IFRS.54 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
GSK financial architecture: driving improved returns to shareholders
Sales growth
Operating leverage EPS
Returns to
shareholders
Financial efficiency Free cash flow
Cash flow growth
Our core operating margin improved, The impact on the decline in total EPS was 2017 guidance
driven by increased leverage in all three partly offset by the benefit of the improved We expect continued progress in 2017, with
businesses. The pro-forma core margina was operating performance and reduced all three businesses expected to continue to
up 460 basis points in total, with 200 points restructuring charges in the year. benefit from recent new product launches and
coming from currency, and 260 points from from the investments we made during 2016.
Core EPS of 102.4pa was up 35% at actual
operational improvements. This was driven
exchange rates and up 12% at constant The expectation for 2017 core EPS growth is
by a combination of leverage from stronger
exchange rates. dependent on a number of factors including,
growth in the top line, and £1.4 billion
in particular, uncertainties relating to the
(including £200 million of currency benefits) Contingent consideration
timing and extent of potential generic
of additional integration and restructuring At the end of 2016, GSK had liabilities for
competition to Advair in the US.
benefits, as well as continued tight cost contingent consideration payments of £5.9
control that allowed us to deliver the margin billion, of which £5.3 billion related to the In the event that no generic version of Advair
improvements while continuing to make estimated present value of future payments is introduced to the US market in 2017, the
important investments in all three businesses. to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare. The payments Group expects 2017 core EPS growth of
to Shionogi are calculated each quarter 5-7% at CERa. This is based on an expected
Accelerating the delivery of the targeted
based on a high-teens percentage of the decline in 2017 in US Advair sales of
benefits of the integration and restructuring
revenues of the relevant products, principally 15-20%.
programme has been a key objective and we
dolutegravir, with the discounted fair value of
are pleased with the progress made this year In the event of a mid-year introduction of a
the total future payments reflecting the current
through a sustained focus across the Group substitutable generic competitor to Advair
expectations of total future sales of those
on executing this programme. By the end of in the US, the Group expects full-year 2017
products. Further details are provided in
2016 we had delivered annual benefits of US Advair sales of around £1 billion at CER
Note 39, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
£2.8 billion, (excluding £200 million of (US$1.36/£1), with core EPS flat to a slight
currency benefits), almost the full target of Free cash flow decline in percentage terms at CERa.
the programme a year earlier than originally Net cash inflow from operating activities We are not able to give guidance for total
planned. We are confident in delivering the was £6.5 billion and free cash flow for results as we cannot reliably forecast certain
remaining £200 million during 2017 to bring the Group was £3.1 billiona, significantly material elements of our total results such
the total benefits delivered to £3 billion of improved on the small outflow we saw as the future fair value movements on
annual savings on a constant currency basis. in 2015. This was driven by our improved contingent consideration and put options.
operating performance, including continued
Financial efficiency tight control of capital expenditure and Returns to shareholders
We continue to focus on improving our restructuring expenditure, as well as the In 2016, we maintained our ordinary dividend
financial efficiency and overall funding benefit of currency tail winds. We continue at 80p per share, the same level as we paid in
costs while protecting our credit profile to make progress towards our objective of 2015. This is in line with the commitment we
and, in particular, our short-term target credit rebuilding the cash generating capacity made to shareholders at the time we closed
ratings. Net finance costs were up slightly, of the Group post the completion of the the Novartis transaction in early 2015 to
mainly due to currency. restructuring and integration programme. maintain the dividend as we completed the
Earnings per share integration and reshaping of the Group,
Net debt
Total EPS was 18.8p (2015 – 174.3p). The despite the short-term pressures in free cash
Net debt at the end of 2016 was £13.8
decline primarily reflected the comparison flow that the restructuring costs would create.
billion, £3.1 billion higher than the net debt at
with the £9.2 billion profit from the sale of the end of 2015. Currency was a significant A fuller review of the financial results is set
our marketed Oncology assets to Novartis in
factor with adverse translation effects driving out on pages 55 to 78.
2015, but also the impact in 2016 of charges
£2.2 billion of the increase. The remaining
arising from increases in the valuations of the
increase of £0.9 billion reflected the impact
liabilities for contingent consideration and
of dividends paid during the year of £4.9
the put options associated with increases
billion, including the special dividend of £1.0
in the sterling value of the Group’s HIV and
billion declared in 2015, being only partly
Consumer Healthcare businesses.
offset by disposal proceeds of approximately Simon Dingemans
£1.0 billion and free cash flow of £3.1 billion. Chief Financial Officer55 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Approach to tax
We understand our responsibility to pay We seek to maintain open, positive
an appropriate amount of tax, and fully relationships with governments and tax
We understand our support efforts to ensure companies are authorities worldwide and we welcome
responsibility to pay an transparent about how their tax affairs are constructive debate on taxation policy.
managed. Tax is an important element of
appropriate amount of tax There continued to be a significant
the economic contribution we bring to the
focus on tax reform during 2016,
while being financially countries in which we operate. We do not
including the OECD’s Base Erosion
engage in artificial tax arrangements –
efficient and delivering and Profit Shifting (‘BEPS’) project and
those without business or commercial
European Commission initiatives such
a sustainable tax rate. substance. We do not seek to avoid tax by
as the increased use of fiscal state aid
the use of ‘tax havens’ or transactions we
investigations. The OECD BEPS reports
would not fully disclose to a tax authority.
clarify the important principle that tax
At the same time, we have a responsibility should be paid on profits throughout the
to our shareholders to be financially supply chain, where the profit making
efficient and deliver a sustainable tax activity takes place.
rate. As part of this approach, we look
GSK supports this approach, in particular
to align our investment strategies to
the implementation of the OECD’s
those countries where we already have
recommendations on ‘Country by Country
substantial economic activity, and where
Reporting’, including the exchange of this
government policies promote tax regimes
data between tax authorities, as being key
which are attractive to business
to its success. This data, validated against
investment, transparent in their intent
existing information held on taxpayers, will
and available to all relevant tax payers
support their ability to ensure multinational
such as the UK Patent Box.
groups pay the right amount of tax.
In 2016, the Group corporate tax charge
While the scope and timeline for US
was £877 million (2015 – £2,154 million)
tax reform remain uncertain at present,
on profits of £1,939 million (2015 –
GSK would be supportive of any steps to
£10,526 million) representing an effective
simplify the US tax code and to provide a
tax rate of 45.2% (2015 – 20.5%). The
clear roadmap to make the US tax system
increase in the total tax rate primarily
more efficient and competitive.
reflected higher non-deductible
remeasurement charges related to the put The tax implications of Brexit are
option liabilities and lower credits from the dependent on the outcome of negotiations
re-assessment of prior years’ tax charges. between the UK and EU, and are therefore
We made cash tax payments of £1,609 currently unknown. However, we continue
million in the year (2015 – £2,062 million). to work closely with the ABPI and BIA to
analyse implications for the industry in
In addition to the taxes we pay on our
order to highlight key focus areas for
profits, we pay duties, levies, transactional
the government as part of its Brexit
and employment taxes.
negotiations. The direct tax implications
The ongoing alignment of our Group are expected to be limited for GSK while
structure to reflect our mix of operations the indirect tax implications may be more
and geographies has helped us maintain significant, including potential customs
an efficient effective tax rate. Our core tax duty costs and additional transaction
rate for 2016 was 21.2%a (2015 – 19.5%). or administrative costs associated with
The core tax rate for 2017 is expected to managing import and export obligations
be in the range of 21-22%a. Given the on the movement of goods between the
Group’s momentum, changing earnings UK and EU.
mix and the challenging and uncertain
Our approach to tax is set out in detail
tax environment, (due to the factors
within the Public Policy positions section
described below) some moderate upward
of our website. Further details about our
pressure on the rate is expected over the
corporate tax charges for the year are set
next few years.
out on page 178.
Tax risk is managed by a set of policies
and procedures to seek to ensure
consistency and compliance with tax
legislation. Our Audit & Risk Committee
Footnote
and the Board are responsible for
a We use a number of adjusted, non-IFRS, measures
to report the performance of our business, as approving our tax policies and risk
described on page 57, including core results, free management.
cash flow and CER and pro-forma growth rates.
Non-IFRS measures may be considered in addition
to, but not as a substitute for or superior to,
information presented in accordance with IFRS.56 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Viability statement
In accordance with provision C.2.2 of the 2014 revision of the The following hypothetical downside scenarios have been evaluated:
Code, GSK has assessed the prospects of the Company over a
Scenario 1: Business performance risks. These include key
longer period than the 12 months required by the ‘Going Concern’
performance risks, including lower sales from new products; the
provision. The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable
possible impact of a generic alternative to Seretide/Advair in the US;
expectation that GSK will continue to operate and meets its liabilities,
greater adverse impact from generic competition to other GSK
as they fall due, over the next three years. The Directors’ assessment
products; as well as possible supply and manufacturing challenges.
has been made with reference to GSK’s current position and
prospects, our strategy, the Board’s risk appetite and GSK’s Scenario 2: External and macroeconomic risks. This scenario reflects
principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed on pages incremental risks to the business driven by outside factors, such as
18 and 19 in the Strategic report. more intense competition, increased pricing pressure in both the US
and Europe as well as the potential impact of material negative
The Board reviews our internal controls and risk management
changes in the macro-economic and healthcare environment.
policies and approves our governance structure and code of
conduct. It also appraises and approves major financing, investment Scenario 3: Principal risks. This scenario includes a severe
and licensing decisions, and evaluates and monitors the performance assessment of the potential loss impact from the Principal Risks
and prospects of GSK as a whole. The focus is largely on improving set out on pages 253 to 262 related to patient safety, product
our long-term financial performance through simplifying the operating quality, supply chain continuity as well as anti-bribery and corruption,
model, growing a diversified global business, and delivering more all of which could fundamentally threaten our operations. These risks
products of value. are managed through mitigating activities described on pages 253
to 262.
The Board reviews GSK’s strategy and makes significant capital
investment decisions over a long term time horizon, based on a Scenario 4: Put option exercise. This scenario evaluates the
multi-year assessment of return on capital, the performance of additional funding requirements assuming the earliest potential
business units, and the market opportunity in the pharmaceutical, exercise of the outstanding put options held by our partners in the
vaccines and consumer sectors. This approach is aligned to GSK’s HIV and consumer businesses.
model of achieving balanced growth by investing in high quality, The three year review also makes certain assumptions about the
innovative products for patients, consumers and healthcare normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers whether
providers. However, since many internal and external parameters additional financing facilities will be required and the respective level
become increasingly unpredictable over longer time horizons, GSK of funding flexibility and headroom.
focuses its detailed, bottom-up Plan on a three year cycle. The Plan
The results of this stress testing show that certain combinations of
is reviewed at least annually by the Directors, who approve business
these hypothetical scenarios could increase funding demands on
forecasts showing expected financial impact. The Directors believe
GSK and require mitigating changes to the Group’s funding strategy.
that a three year assessment period for the Viability statement is
However, in light of the liquidity available to the Group and based on
most appropriate as it aligns with the Company’s well established
this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that, even
business planning processes that balance the long term nature of
under these most severe stress tests, the Company will be able to
investments in the pharmaceutical, vaccines and consumer sectors
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the
with an assessment of the period over which analysis of near term
three year period of assessment.
business performance is realistically visible.
The Plan has been stress tested in a series of robust operational
and principal risk downside scenarios as part of the Board’s review
on risk. The downside scenarios consider GSK’s cash flows,
sustainability of dividends, funding strategy, insurance provision and
recovery as well as other key financial ratios over the period. These
metrics have been subject to sensitivity analyses, which involve
flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying the forecasts
both individually and in combination, along with mitigating actions
that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or
occurrence of the underlying risk.57 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Reporting framework
Presentation of Group results For the Pharmaceuticals segment, the turnover and operating profit
Our Group financial review discusses the operating and financial for the year ended December 2015 is adjusted to exclude the two
performance of the Group, cash flows and our financial position and months of sales of the former GSK Oncology business for January
resources. We compare the results for each year primarily with the and February 2015.
results of the preceding year.
Reconciliations between the reported growth rates and pro-forma
Total results growth rates, which are non-IFRS measures, are set out on page 70.
Total reported results represent the Group’s overall performance.
Contingent consideration
However, these results can contain material unusual or non-
GSK has recognised a significant liability for contingent consideration
operational items that may obscure the key trends and factors
(£5,896 million at 31 December 2016 on a fair value discounted basis)
determining the Group’s operational performance. As a result,
of which £5,304 million represented the estimated present value
we also report core results, which is a non-IFRS measure.
of future amounts payable to Shionogi relating to ViiV Healthcare,
Core results discounted at 8.5%. The payments to Shionogi are calculated
Core results exclude the following items from total results: based on the sales performance over the life of the relevant products,
amortisation and impairment of intangible assets (excluding principally dolutegravir, as described on page 58. The effect of the
computer software) and goodwill; major restructuring costs, IFRS accounting treatment is that GSK recognises these fair value
including those costs following material acquisitions; legal charges liabilities in the balance sheet, with remeasurement charges reflected
(net of insurance recoveries) and expenses on the settlement immediately in other operating income. These charges are adjusted
of litigation and government investigations; transaction-related from total results to present core results. GSK will make cash
accounting adjustments for significant acquisitions, and other payments in the future to discharge this liability which will not be
items, including disposals of associates, products and businesses, recorded in the profit and loss account and future earnings.
and other operating income other than royalty income, together
Changes to segment reporting
with the tax effects of all of these items.
The completion of the Novartis transaction on 2 March 2015
These items are excluded from core results either because their changed the balance of the Group and GSK has changed its
impact can be significant or because their exclusion improves segment reporting to reflect this. With effect from 1 January 2016,
comparabilities and consistency of reporting with the majority GSK has reported results under four segments: Pharmaceuticals,
of our peer companies. This definition of core results aligns the which includes HIV, Pharmaceuticals R&D, Vaccines and Consumer
Group’s results better with the majority of our peer companies Healthcare. In addition, a number of minor product reclassifications
and how they report earnings. between the segments have been made. Comparative information
has been restated accordingly.
Core results reporting is utilised as one of the bases for internal
performance reporting alongside total results, cash flow generation Free cash flow
and a number of other metrics. Core results are presented and Free cash flow, which is a non-IFRS measure, is the net cash
discussed in this Group financial review as we believe that core inflow from operating activities less capital expenditure, interest and
results are more representative of the performance of the Group’s dividends paid to non-controlling interests plus proceeds from the
operations and allow the key trends and factors driving that sale of property, plant and equipment and dividends received from
performance to be more easily and clearly identified by shareholders. joint ventures, associated undertakings and equity investments. It is
For the same reasons, the results of our four segments: used by management for planning and reporting purposes and in
Pharmaceuticals, Pharmaceuticals R&D, Vaccines and Consumer discussions with and presentations to investment analysts and rating
Healthcare are reported and measured on the same basis. agencies. Free cash flow growth is calculated on a reported basis.
A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operations to free cash flow
Reconciliations between total and core results, including detailed
is presented on page 71.
breakdowns of the key non-core items, are set out on page 66, and
are provided to shareholders to ensure full visibility and transparency Adjusted free cash flow
as they assess the Group’s performance. Adjusted free cash flow, which is a non-IFRS measure, excludes
payments made to settle legal disputes. Such payments could
We also use a number of other adjusted, non-IFRS, measures
fluctuate significantly between reporting periods and removing
to report the performance of our business. These measures are
them allows the trends in free cash flow to be more easily identified
used by management for planning and reporting purposes and in
by shareholders. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operations
discussions with and presentations to investment analysts and rating
to adjusted free cash flow is presented on page 71.
agencies and may not be directly comparable with similarly described
measures used by other companies. Non-IFRS measures may be Working capital conversion cycle
considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or superior to, The working capital conversion cycle is calculated as the number
information presented in accordance with IFRS. of days sales outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, less days
purchases outstanding.
Pro-forma growth rates
The Novartis transaction completed on 2 March 2015 and so GSK’s CER growth
reported results include the results of the former Novartis Vaccines In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is our practice to
and Consumer Healthcare businesses and exclude the results of the discuss the results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth.
former GSK Oncology business, both from 2 March 2015. For the This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare segments, pro-forma growth determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had remained
rates are calculated comparing reported turnover and core operating unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER% represents
profits for the year ended December 2016 with the turnover and growth at constant exchange rates. £% or AER% represents growth
operating profit for the year ended December 2015 adjusted to at actual exchange rates.
include the two months of sales of the former Novartis Vaccines
All growth rates included in this Report are at CER unless otherwise
and Consumer Healthcare products, respectively.
stated.58 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare
Trading profit allocations Exit rights
Because ViiV Healthcare is a subsidiary of the Group, 100% of Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if
its operating results (turnover, operating profit, profit after tax) are either GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not
included within the Group income statement and then a portion completed within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to acquire
of the earnings is allocated to the non-controlling interests owned its shareholding. Under the original agreements, GSK had the
by the other shareholders, in line with their respective equity unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent distribution
shareholdings (Pfizer 11.7% and Shionogi 10%). Each of the to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the exercise of the
shareholders, including GSK, is also entitled to preferential dividends Pfizer put options and, as a result, in accordance with IFRS, GSK
determined by the performance of certain products that each did not recognise a liability for the put option on its balance sheet.
shareholder contributed. As the relative performance of these In Q1 2016, GSK notified Pfizer that it had irrevocably given up
products changes over time, the proportion of the overall earnings this right and accordingly recognised the liability for the put option
of ViiV Healthcare allocated to each shareholder will change. on the Group’s balance sheet at an initial value of £1,070 million.
In particular, the increasing sales of Tivicay and Triumeq have a Consistent with this revised treatment, at the end of Q1 2016
favourable impact on the proportion of the preferential dividends GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential dividends
that is allocated to GSK. GSK was entitled to approximately 80% anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi on the
of the core earnings of ViiV Healthcare for 2016. This does not Group’s balance sheet.
take account of the cash payments made to Shionogi by ViiV
The closing balances of the liabilities related to Pfizer’s shareholding
Healthcare which are not recorded in earnings. Remeasurements
are as follows:
of the liabilities for the preferential dividends allocated to Pfizer
and Shionogi are included within other operating income. 2016 2015
£m £m
Acquisition-related arrangements
Pfizer put option 1,319 –
As part of the agreement reached to acquire Shionogi’s interest
Pfizer preferential dividend 23 –
in the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012, ViiV
Healthcare agreed to pay additional consideration to Shionogi
Under the original agreements, Shionogi could also have requested
contingent on the performance of the products being developed
GSK to acquire its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare in six month
by that joint venture, principally dolutegravir. The liability for this
windows commencing in 2017, 2020 and 2022. GSK had the
contingent consideration was estimated and recognised in the
unconditional right, so long as it made no subsequent distribution
Group’s balance sheet at the date of acquisition. Subsequent
to its shareholders, to withhold its consent to the exercise of the
remeasurements are reflected within other operating income.
Shionogi put option and, as a result, GSK did not recognise a liability
Cash payments are made to Shionogi by ViiV Healthcare each for the put option on its balance sheet. In Q1 2016, GSK notified
quarter which reduce the balance sheet liability for the contingent Shionogi that it had irrevocably given up this right and accordingly
consideration and as a result are not recorded in the income recognised the liability for the put option on the Group’s balance
statement. In 2016, the total cash payments made to Shionogi in sheet at an initial value of £926 million. In Q4 2016, Shionogi
respect of the contingent consideration amounted to £417 million. irrevocably agreed to waive its put option and as a result GSK
The payments are calculated based on the sales performance of de-recognised the liability for this put option on the Group’s balance
the relevant products in the previous quarter and are reflected in sheet directly to equity. The value of the liability was £1,244 million
the cash flow statement partly in operating cash flows and partly when it was de-recognised.
in purchases of businesses, within investing activities. The tax relief
GSK also has a call option over Shionogi’s shareholding in ViiV
on these payments is reflected in the Group’s non-core and total tax
Healthcare, which under the original agreements was exercisable in
charge. The part of each payment relating to the original estimate of
six month windows commencing in 2027, 2030 and 2032. GSK has
the fair value of the contingent consideration on the acquisition of
now irrevocably agreed to waive the first two exercise windows, but
the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 of £659 million
the last six month window in 2032 remains. As this call option is at
is reported within investing activities in the cash flow statement and
fair value, it has no value for accounting purposes.
the part of each payment relating to the increase in the liability since
the acquisition is reported within operating cash flows.
Movements in contingent consideration payable to Shionogi were
as follows:
2016 2015
£m £m
Contingent consideration at beginning of the year 3,409 1,684
Additions 154 –
Remeasurement through income statement 2,162 1,874
Cash payments: operating cash flows (351) (121)
Cash payments: purchases of businesses (66) (38)
Other movements (4) 10
Contingent consideration at end of the year 5,304 3,409
The additions represented the recognition in 2016 of the preferential
dividends payable to Shionogi.59 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group turnover
Turnover (£bn) Group turnover for the year increased 17% at actual rates and 6%
CER to £27,889 million, with Pharmaceuticals up 3%, Vaccines
£27.9 2014 23.0
bn up 14% and Consumer Healthcare up 9%, the growth in all three
businesses still reflecting the impact of the Novartis transaction
2015 23.9
which completed on 2 March 2015. On a pro-forma basis, Group
turnover was up 5%, with Pharmaceuticals up 4%, Vaccines up 12%
2016 27.9
and Consumer Healthcare up 5%. Sales of New Pharmaceutical
and Vaccine products were £4,453 million, a Sterling increase of
AER growth CER growth
£2,465 million.
17% 6% Group turnover by geographic region
2016 2015 Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER%
Group turnover
US 10,197 8,222 24 10
2015
Europe 7,498 6,450 16 6
2016 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% International 10,194 9,251 10 1
Pharmaceuticals 16,104 14,157 14 3 27,889 23,923 17 6
Vaccines 4,592 3,656 26 14
Group turnover outside of the US and Europe represented 37% of
Consumer Healthcare 7,193 6,038 19 9
total Group turnover in 2016 (2015 – 39%).
Segment turnover 27,889 23,851 17 6
Sales from new Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products
Corporate and other
unallocated turnover – 72 2016 2015 Growth Growth
£m £m £ % CER%
Group turnover 27,889 23,923 17 6
Respiratory
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 620 257 >100 >100
Anoro Ellipta 201 79 >100 >100
Arnuity Ellipta 15 3 >100 >100
Incruse Ellipta 114 14 >100 >100
Nucala 102 1 >100 >100
CVMU
Eperzan/Tanzeum 121 41 >100 >100
HIV
Tivicay 953 588 62 45
Triumeq 1,735 730 >100 >100
Pharmaceuticals 3,861 1,713 >100 >100
Bexsero 390 115 >100 >100
Menveo 202 160 26 16
Vaccines 592 275 >100 96
4,453 1,988 >100 >100
In 2015, we identified a series of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine
products that were expected to deliver at least £6 billion of revenues
per annum on a CER basis by 2020. Those products, plus current
clinical pipeline asset, Shingrix, are as set out above and, as a group
are defined as New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products. Sales of
the New Pharmaceutical Vaccine products are now expected to
reach £6 billion of revenues per annum on a CER basis up to two
years earlier (2018).
Sales of New Pharmaceutical and Vaccine products were £4,453
million and represented approximately 22% of Pharmaceuticals and
Vaccines turnover.60 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Pharmaceuticals
Turnover (£bn) Pharmaceuticals
Pharmaceuticals turnover was £16,104 million, up 14% at actual
58% 2014 15.4
rates and 3% CER, but adjusting for the disposal of the Oncology
business to Novartis, up 4% pro-forma. HIV sales grew 37%. The
2015 14.2
of Group turnover Respiratory portfolio returned to growth with sales up 2%, continuing
the transition globally to newer products. Respiratory sales grew 7%
2016 16.1
in the US and 3% in International, but declined 10% in Europe. Sales
of New Pharmaceutical products were £3,861 million, a Sterling
AER growth CER growth
increase of £2,148 million, which more than offset the Sterling
decline in Seretide/Advair sales of £196 million. Sales of Established
14% 3%
products declined 8%, with declines in all regions, but particularly
International, reflecting the loss of exclusivity for Valtrex in Canada,
Pharmaceuticals turnover the impact of market reforms and the continued reshaping of the
2015 business in China and the impact of biennial price revisions in Japan.
2016 (restated) Growth Growth The overall impact of pricing to net sales of Pharmaceuticals was
£m £m £% CER% around -1%.
Respiratory 6,510 5,741 13 2
US Pharmaceuticals turnover of £4,705 million declined 1% in
Cardiovascular, metabolic
2016 on a reported basis and grew 1% on a pro-forma basis. The
and urology 860 858 – (11)
pro-forma performance reflected a 7% growth in the Respiratory
Immuno-inflammation 340 263 29 15
portfolio, partly offset by the impact of generic competition to
Other pharmaceuticals 2,297 2,445 (6) (14)
Avodart, down 63% to £70 million, and Lovaza, down 59% to
Established products 2,541 2,528 1 (8) £43 million. Relenza sales were also down 91% to £7 million
HIV 3,556 2,322 53 37 following a reallocation of government funding. Sales of new
16,104 14,157 14 3 Respiratory products totalled £654 million and the growth of
these products exceeded the decline in Advair. Advair sales fell
13% to £1,829 million, representing a 7% volume decline and
a 6% negative impact of price. Ventolin sales were up 23% to
£421 million, benefiting from competitor supply constraints early
in the year, while Flovent sales declined 11% to £378 million,
reflecting pricing pressures in the ICS market. Benlysta sales
increased 18% to £277 million with ongoing demand growth.
In Europe, Pharmaceuticals turnover declined 8% to £2,867 million
on a reported basis and 5% on a pro-forma basis. Respiratory sales
declined 10% to £1,383 million reflecting the ongoing transition to
the new Respiratory portfolio and generic competition to Seretide
which declined 24% (16% volume decline and an 8% negative
impact of price) to £835 million. This was partly offset by growth in
the new Respiratory products, which recorded sales of £225 million.
Established products sales were down 4% to £513 million.
International Pharmaceuticals sales of £4,976 million were down
5% on a reported basis and 4% on a pro-forma basis. Sales in
Emerging Markets declined 4% reported and 3% on a pro-forma
basis, impacted by the decline in the China business (down 12%
primarily as a result of the ongoing reshaping programme and
broader Healthcare reforms including price reductions) but also
by recent divestments in the International region, and the limitation
of trading in Venezuela. In Japan, Pharmaceutical sales were
down 5% on a reported basis and 5% pro-forma to £1,425 million,
impacted by biennial price revisions on older products as well as
supply interruptions to Avodart early in the year. Respiratory sales
in Japan grew 3% with strong growth of the new Respiratory
products, up 57% to £118 million, more than offsetting the
decline in Adoair sales.61 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Respiratory Established products
Respiratory sales in 2016 increased 2% to £6,510 million, reflecting Established products turnover fell 8% to £2,541 million, with Valtrex
the continuing transition of the Respiratory portfolio to newer sales down 37% to £118 million driven by a decline in Canada, down
products. Growth in the new Respiratory products, which recorded 91% to £5 million, following the loss of exclusivity. Zeffix sales were
combined sales of £1,052 million, including Relvar/Breo Ellipta sales down 24% to £111 million and Lovaza sales in the US fell 59% to
of £620 million, more than offset the decline in Seretide/Advair. £43 million.
Flixotide/Flovent sales decreased 8% to £637 million and Ventolin
HIV
sales grew 15% to £785 million.
HIV sales increased 37% to £3,556 million, with the US up 46%,
In the US, Respiratory sales increased 7% to £3,306 million Europe up 29% and International up 21%. The growth in all three
(14% volume growth and a 7% negative impact of price). The growth regions was driven by Triumeq and Tivicay.
of new Respiratory products more than offset the 13% decline in
Triumeq and Tivicay sales were £1,735 million and £953 million,
Advair (7% volume decline and a 6% negative impact of price).
respectively. Epzicom/Kivexa sales declined 27% to £568 million,
The new Ellipta products recorded combined sales of £583 million,
and Selzentry sales declined 9% to £125 million. There were also
including Breo Ellipta sales of £344 million, with Nucala, the
continued declines in the mature portfolio, mainly driven by generic
treatment for severe asthma, reporting sales of £71 million.
competition to both Combivir, down 38% to £23 million, and Lexiva,
Established Respiratory assets included Ventolin, with sales up
down 26% to £51 million.
23% to £421 million, and Flovent, which declined 11% to £378
million. Ventolin sales benefited from competitor supply constraints
early in the year, while Flovent continued to be impacted by ongoing
pricing pressures in the ICS market.
European Respiratory sales were down 10% to £1,383 million, with
Seretide sales down 24% to £835 million (16% volume decline and
an 8% negative impact of price), reflecting continued competition
from generics and the transition of the Respiratory portfolio to newer
products. The new Respiratory products recorded combined sales
of £225 million in 2016, including Relvar Ellipta sales of £140 million.
Respiratory sales in the International region increased 3% to
£1,821 million with Emerging Markets up 7% and Japan up 3%. In
Emerging Markets, sales of Seretide were down 3% at £476 million,
while Ventolin grew 13% to £219 million. In Japan, the growth in the
new Respiratory products offset the Adoair decline of 12%.
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology
Sales in the category were down 11% to £860 million. The Avodart
franchise was down 14% to £635 million, primarily due to a 63%
decline in the US following the launch of generic competition in Q4
2015. Sales of Eperzan/Tanzeum were £121 million, primarily in the
US. Prolia was divested at the end of 2015 and therefore no sales
were recorded in 2016, compared with £43 million in 2015.
Immuno-inflammation
Immuno-inflammation sales grew 15% to £340 million. Sales of
Benlysta were £306 million, up 19%, with sales in the US of
£277 million, up 18%.
Other pharmaceuticals
Sales in other therapy areas decreased 14% to £2,297 million.
Dermatology sales declined 12% to £393 million, adversely
affected by supply constraints, while Augmentin sales were flat
at £563 million. Sales of products for Rare diseases were flat
at £423 million, and included sales of Volibris, which were up
1% to £172 million.62 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Vaccines
Turnover (£bn) Vaccines sales grew 26% at actual rates and 14% CER, but 12%
pro-forma to £4,592 million. Growth benefited from the strong
16% 2014 3.2
performance of Bexsero across all regions, higher demand for
Fluarix/FluLaval in the US and International and a tender award for
2015 3.7
of Group turnover Menveo in International. Further growth was driven by Synflorix due
to market expansion in International and a tender award in Europe.
2016 4.6
Boostrix sales benefited from higher demand in Europe and
International. Growth was partly offset by Infanrix/Pediarix due to
AER growth CER growth
supply constraints in International, as well as unfavourable CDC
stockpile movements for a number of products across the portfolio.
26% 14%
In the US, sales grew by 13% and 12% on a pro-forma basis to
£1,599 million. Growth was driven by market and share growth for
2015 Bexsero, Menveo and Boostrix, improved supply and higher demand
2016 (restated) Growth Growth
for Fluarix/FluLaval and competitor supply issues that benefited
£m £m £% CER%
Infanrix/Pediarix. This growth was partly offset by adverse stockpile
Rotarix 469 417 12 1
movements on Menveo and an unfavourable comparison with the
Synflorix 504 381 32 19
benefit to 2015 from CDC stockpile movements on Infanrix/Pediarix,
Fluarix, FluLaval 414 268 54 38 Boostrix and Rotarix.
Bexsero 390 115 >100 >100
In Europe, sales grew 18% and 16% on a pro-forma basis to
Menveo 202 160 26 16
£1,423 million. Growth was driven primarily by Bexsero sales in
Boostrix 470 358 31 18
private market channels in several countries including Spain and
Infanrix, Pediarix 769 733 5 (5) Italy, and in the UK following its inclusion in the NHS immunisation
Hepatitis 602 540 11 1 programme. Boostrix sales benefited from higher demand and
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 300 260 15 5 competitor supply issues. Sales increased in Germany driven
Cervarix 81 88 (8) (14) by improved supply of Hepatitis vaccines and higher demand for
Encepur and Rabipur. Sales growth was also helped by a tender
Other 391 336 17 6
award for Synflorix in Poland but Infanrix/Pediarix sales were
4,592 3,656 26 14
adversely impacted, mainly in Germany, France and Italy, by a
competitor’s return to the market during the year. Growth was
also partly offset by the unfavourable comparison with 2015 when
Menveo sales in the UK benefited from a catch-up tender win.
In International, sales grew 10% and 8% on a pro-forma basis to
£1,570 million. Growth was driven primarily by Synflorix, due to
market expansion in Nigeria, higher demand in Africa and private
market demand in Asia. The growth in Menveo sales was driven by
a tender award in Argentina and Rotarix sales benefited from higher
demand in Brazil and Japan. Further growth in the region was driven
by Brazil due to strong demand for Bexsero, Menjugate, and Boostrix.
Fluarix/FluLaval sales grew due to higher uptake in Australia. Growth
in the region was partly offset by lower sales of Infanrix/Pediarix, due
to supply constraints, and lower Hepatitis vaccines sales, due to
wholesaler destocking in China following the introduction of new
private market distribution regulations.63 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Consumer Healthcare
Turnover (£bn) The Consumer Healthcare business represents the Consumer
Healthcare Joint Venture with Novartis together with the GSK
26% 2014 4.3
Consumer Healthcare listed businesses in India and Nigeria,
which are excluded from the Joint Venture. Results do not include
2015 6.0
of Group turnover the trading performance of the Nigeria beverages business in Q4
2016 following its sale on 30 September 2016.
2016 7.2
Sales grew 19% at actual rates and 9% CER to £7,193 million,
AER growth CER growth benefiting significantly from the inclusion of sales of the former
Novartis products for the first time for the first two months of the
19% 9% period. Pro-forma growth was 5% of which price contributed 2%,
and volume 3%. Strong performances were delivered by the power
brands within the Oral health and Wellness categories and across all
2015 regions. Sales from innovation within the last three years represented
2016 (restated) Growth Growth
approximately 13% of sales, with a particular contribution for
£m £m £% CER%
Flonase, which was switched to OTC in Q1 2015. Other notable
Wellness 3,726 2,970 25 15
launches in 2016 included Sensodyne True White and Excedrin
Oral health 2,223 1,875 19 8
Gel-tabs in the US.
Nutrition 674 684 (1) (8)
US sales grew 9%, 5% pro-forma, to £1,761 million. Sensodyne
Skin health 570 509 12 4
delivered double-digit growth, benefiting from the launch in 2015
7,193 6,038 19 9
of Repair and Protect and the launch of True White in the first quarter
of 2016, together with distribution gains for Pronamel and the newly
2015 launched Pronamel Strong & Bright variant. Flonase OTC delivered
2016 (restated) Growth Growth
£m £m £% CER% high single-digit growth, with a strong performance in the first half
US 1,761 1,430 23 9 of 2016, driven by new formats, but impacted in the second half by
increasing private label competition. Excedrin grew in double-digits,
Europe 2,191 1,798 22 12
driven by the Gel-tab launch and new digital campaigns, and
International 3,241 2,810 15 8
Tums also delivered double-digit growth, benefiting from supply
7,193 6,038 19 9 improvements. This was partly offset by a decline in Aquafresh
sales due to increased competitive pressures and a re-alignment
of investment behind power brands.
Sales in Europe grew 12% to £2,191 million and were up 4%
on a pro-forma basis, driven primarily by performances within the
Wellness and Oral health categories. Voltaren continued to deliver
double-digit growth, driven largely by the 12-hour variant and with
strong performances across all key markets. Oral health sales grew
in mid single-digits, with strong growth in Sensodyne and the Gum
health portfolio, partly offset by a flat performance in Aquafresh, due
to increased competitive pressures. At a market level, sales grew well
in Italy, Scandinavia, the UK and Germany, partly offset by a decline
in sales in CIS due to the impact on consumer spending of the
weaker economic environment.
International sales of £3,241 million grew 8% with pro-forma
growth of 5%. Growth was delivered in many priority markets,
primarily through the power brands across the Oral health and
Wellness categories. This was partly offset by the impact of the sale
of the Nigeria beverages business at the end of Q3 2016 as well as
the affect of the restructuring of activity in Venezuela at the end of
2015. Growth of the International region was also affected by the
combined impact on the Indian business of the demonetisation
implemented in November and a more general slowing of the health
food drink category which impacted the performance of the Nutrition
category and Horlicks in particular. Elsewhere, strong growth was
delivered in the Middle East, Latin America and China. The growth
in the Middle East was driven by strong momentum across the power
brands, particularly Otrivin, Panadol and Sensodyne. Double-digit
performances were delivered in Brazil and Argentina as a result of
better pricing and new product launches within Oral health. China
delivered high single-digit sales growth with contributions across
the portfolio and with Sensodyne and Voltaren in particular benefiting
from e-commerce and retail distribution expansion.64 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Total results
Turnover (£bn) Cost of sales
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 33.3%, down 3.7
£27.9 2014 23.0
bn percentage points in Sterling terms and 2.4 percentage points in
CER terms compared with 2015. This reflected improved product mix,
2015 23.9
particularly the impact of higher HIV sales in Pharmaceuticals, but also
in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare and lower restructuring costs
2016 27.9
as well as an increased contribution from integration and restructuring
savings in all three businesses.
AER growth CER growth
These benefits were partly offset by continued adverse pricing
17% 6% pressure in Pharmaceuticals, primarily Respiratory, as well as
continued investments in the supply chain.
Total operating profit (£bn)
Selling, general and administration
£2.6 2014 3.6 SG&A costs were 33.6% of turnover, 5.0 percentage points lower
bn
than in 2015 and 4.3 percentage points lower on a CER basis. This
2015 10.3 primarily reflected lower restructuring costs as well as the benefits
from the Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme and integration
2016 2.6 benefits in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, partly offset by
investment in promotional product support, particularly for new
AER growth CER growth launches in Respiratory, HIV, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
Research and development
(75)% (86)%
R&D expenditure was £3,628 million (13% of turnover), 1.9% higher
than in 2015 and 5.6% lower on a CER basis. This reflected the
benefit from cost reduction programmes in Pharmaceuticals,
The total results of the Group are set out below. Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines R&D and lower restructuring
costs, partly offset by increased investment, particularly in
2016 2015 Growth Pharmaceuticals, reflecting investments in a number of new
% of % of programmes and the costs of the acquired BMS HIV programme.
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Turnover 27,889 100 23,923 100 17 6 Other operating income/(expense)
Cost of sales (9,290) (33.3) (8,853) (37.0) 5 (1) Net other operating expense of £3,405 million (2015 - £7,715 million
Selling, general and income) primarily reflected further accounting charges related to
administration (9,366) (33.6) (9,232) (38.6) 1 (6) remeasurement of the contingent consideration liability related to
Research and the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture, along with
development (3,628) (13.0) (3,560) (14.9) 2 (6) remeasurement of the value attributable to the Consumer Healthcare
Royalty income 398 1.4 329 1.4 21 16 Joint Venture put option and the liabilities first recognised in Q1 2016
Other operating income/ for the Pfizer and Shionogi put options and preferential dividends
(expense) (3,405) (12.2) 7,715 32.2 in ViiV Healthcare. These remeasurements were driven by the
Operating profit 2,598 9.3 10,322 43.1 (75) (86) unwinding of the discount applied to these future liabilities as well
Net finance costs (664) (653) as updated trading forecasts and changes in the exchange rate
Profit on disposal of assumptions used, updating them to period-end rates, which have
interest in associates – 843 increased the estimated total sterling values of GSK’s Consumer
Share of after tax Healthcare and ViiV Healthcare businesses.
profits of associates These charges were partly offset by milestone income of £152
and joint ventures 5 14
million in relation to the disposal of ofatumumab that was completed
Profit before taxation 1,939 10,526 (82) (92)
in 2015 and gains on a number of other divestments made during
Taxation (877) (2,154) the year, including the remaining shares held by the Group in Aspen
Profit after taxation Pharmacare. The net other operating income of £7,715 million in
for the year 1,062 8,372 (87) (98) 2015 included the profit on the disposal of the Oncology business
Profit attributable to to Novartis of £9,228 million.
shareholders 912 8,422
Earnings per share (p) 18.8 174.3 (89) (99)
Earnings per ADS
(US$) 0.51 5.3365 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Total results continued
Operating profit Profit before taxation
Total operating profit was £2,598 million in 2016 compared with Taking account of net finance costs and the share of profit of
£10,322 million in 2015 which benefited from the net disposal associates, profit before taxation was £1,939 million compared
gains recorded following the disposal of the Oncology business with £10,526 million in 2015.
as part of the Novartis transaction.
Taxation
Operating profit benefited from improved operating leverage
2016 2015
driven by sales growth and a more favourable mix across all £m £m
three businesses, together with lower levels of restructuring costs UK current year charge 241 156
compared with 2015. However, there were further accounting Rest of world current year charge 1,326 2,924
charges related to remeasurement of the contingent consideration
Charge in respect of prior periods (149) (508)
liability related to the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture,
Total current taxation 1,418 2,572
along with remeasurement of the value attributable to the Consumer
Total deferred taxation (541) (418)
Healthcare Joint Venture put option and the liabilities first recognised
in Q1 2016 for the Pfizer and Shionogi put options and preferential Taxation on total profits 877 2,154
dividends in ViiV Healthcare.
A tax charge of £877 million on total profit represented an effective
Contingent consideration cash payments are made to Shionogi tax rate of 45.2% (2015 – 20.5%) and reflected the non-deductibility
and other companies, which reduce the balance sheet liability and of certain items included within the transaction-related adjustments,
hence are not recorded in the income statement. Total contingent particularly the remeasurements of the put options related to ViiV
consideration cash payments in 2016 amounted to £431 million Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
(2015 – £459 million). This included cash payments made by ViiV
Non-controlling interests
Healthcare to Shionogi in relation to its contingent consideration
The allocation of earnings to non-controlling interests amounted to
liability (including preferential dividends) which amounted to
£150 million (2015 – (£50) million), including the non-controlling
£417 million (2015 – £159 million). In 2015 a milestone payment
interest allocations of Consumer Healthcare profits of £203 million
of £300 million was made to Novartis in relation to the Vaccines
(2015 – £14 million) and the allocation of ViiV Healthcare losses of
acquisition.
£83 million (2015 – £143 million) including the impact of changes
Net finance costs in the proportions of preferential dividends due to each shareholder
2016 2015 based on the relative performance of different products in the year.
Finance income £m £m The allocation also reflected the impact on the contribution of some
Interest and other income 70 99 of the Group’s other entities with non-controlling interests primarily
Fair value movements 2 5 as a result of net losses in those entities arising from exchange.
72 104 Earnings per share
The total earnings per share was 18.8p, compared with 174.3p
Finance expense in 2015. The decrease primarily reflected the benefit in 2015 from
Interest expense (701) (719) the disposal of the Oncology business to Novartis that closed in
Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (16) (16) March 2015, together with the impact in 2016 of charges arising
Remeasurements and fair value movements (4) (8) from increases in the valuations of the liabilities for contingent
Other finance expense (15) (14) consideration and the put options associated with increases in
the Sterling value of the Group’s HIV and Consumer Healthcare
(736) (757)
businesses, partly offset by improved performance and reduced
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures restructuring costs.
The share of profits of associates and joint ventures was £5 million Dividends
(2015 – £14 million). The Board declared four interim dividends resulting in a total dividend
for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend declared in 2015.
See Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.66 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Total results continued
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2016
Intangible Intangible
Total asset asset Major Legal Transaction Divestments Core
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges -related and other results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,889 27,889
Cost of sales (9,290) 547 7 297 86 2 (8,351)
Gross profit 18,599 547 7 297 86 2 19,538
Selling, general and administration (9,366) 514 162 (7) (8,697)
Research and development (3,628) 41 13 159 (81) 28 (3,468)
Royalty income 398 398
Other operating income/(expense) (3,405) 3,914 (509) -
Operating profit 2,598 588 20 970 162 3,919 (486) 7,771
Net finance costs (664) 4 8 (652)
Share of after tax profits of associates
and joint ventures 5 5
Profit before taxation 1,939 588 20 974 162 3,919 (478) 7,124
Taxation (877) (130) (5) (217) (14) (439) 173 (1,509)
Tax rate 45.2% 21.2%
Profit after taxation 1,062 458 15 757 148 3,480 (305) 5,615
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 150 487 637
Profit attributable to shareholders 912 458 15 757 148 2,993 (305) 4,978
Earnings per share 18.8p 9.4p 0.3p 15.6p 3.0p 61.6p (6.3)p 102.4p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,860 4,860
Core results reconciliation – 31 December 2015
Intangible Intangible
Total asset asset Major Legal Transaction Divestments Core
results amortisation impairment restructuring charges -related and other results
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,923 23,923
Cost of sales (8,853) 522 147 563 89 12 (7,520)
Gross profit 15,070 522 147 563 89 12 16,403
Selling, general and administration (9,232) 7 1,009 221 88 (7,907)
Research and development (3,560) 41 52 319 52 (3,096)
Royalty income 329 329
Other operating income 7,715 2,061 (9,776) –
Operating profit 10,322 563 206 1,891 221 2,238 (9,712) 5,729
Net finance costs (653) 5 12 (636)
Profit on disposal of associates 843 (843) –
Share of after tax profits of
associates and joint ventures 14 (16) (2)
Profit before taxation 10,526 563 206 1,896 221 2,238 (10,559) 5,091
Taxation (2,154) (161) (50) (441) (21) (352) 2,186 (993)
Tax rate 20.5% 19.5%
Profit after taxation 8,372 402 156 1,455 200 1,886 (8,373) 4,098
(Loss)/profit attributable to
non-controlling interests (50) 500 (10) 440
Profit attributable to shareholders 8,422 402 156 1,455 200 1,386 (8,363) 3,658
Earnings per share 174.3p 8.3p 3.2p 30.1p 4.1p 28.8p (173.1)p 75.7p
Weighted average number of shares (millions) 4,831 4,83167 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Total results continued
Items adjusted from total results to present core results Transaction-related adjustments
Total results are adjusted for a number of items in order to present Transaction-related adjustments resulted in a net charge of
core results, as explained on page 57. The items are discussed £3,919 million (2015 – £2,238 million). This primarily reflected
below. accounting charges for the remeasurement of the liability and the
unwinding of the discounting effects on the value attributable to the
Intangible asset amortisation and impairment
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option held by Novartis,
Intangible asset amortisation was £588 million, compared with
the remeasurement and the unwinding of the discounting effects on
£563 million in 2015. Intangible asset impairments of £20 million
the contingent consideration relating to the acquisition of the former
(2015 – £206 million) included impairments of R&D and commercial
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare Joint Venture and the value attributable to
assets. Both of these charges were non-cash items.
the put options and preferential dividends payable to Pfizer and
Major restructuring and integration Shionogi.
Major restructuring and integration charges of £970 million have
been incurred (2015 – £1,891 million), reflecting the phasing of 2016 2015
planned restructuring projects following the completion of the Charge/(credit) £m £m
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option 1,133 83
Novartis transaction in 2015, as well as reduced charges for
Pharmaceuticals restructuring projects as this programme enters Contingent consideration on former Shionogi-ViiV
its later stages. Cash payments made were £1,077 million (2015 Healthcare Joint Venture (including Shionogi
– £1,131 million) including the settlement of certain charges accrued preferential dividends) 2,162 1,874
in previous quarters. ViiV Healthcare put options and Pfizer preferential
dividends 577 –
Charges for the combined restructuring and integration programme
Other adjustments 47 281
to date are £3.7 billion, with cash charges of £2.9 billion and cash
Total transaction-related charges 3,919 2,238
payments to date of £2.7 billion. The anticipated total cash charges
of the combined programme were expected to be up to £3.65 billion The aggregate impact of unwinding the discount on these future and
and the non-cash charges up to £1.35 billion. The programme potential liabilities was £905 million (2015 – £757 million), including
delivered incremental cost savings of £1.4 billion in 2016, including a £464 million on the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option,
currency benefit of £0.2 billion, and has now delivered approximately £334 million on contingent consideration on the former Shionogi-
£3.0 billion of annual savings (including the currency benefit). The ViiV Healthcare Joint Venture, and £58 million on the ViiV Healthcare
programme remains on track to deliver the originally targeted total put options and preference dividends. The remaining charge of
annual savings of £3 billion on a constant currency basis during £3,014 million was driven primarily by changes in exchange rate
2017. An estimated £300 million of additional cash charges are assumptions as well as updates to trading forecasts.
expected in 2017 along with some residual non-cash charges.
During 2016, GSK and Shionogi made several amendments to
Legal charges the Shareholders’ Agreement for ViiV Healthcare regarding the
Legal charges of £162 million (2015 – £221 million) included the Shionogi put option and the GSK call option. The estimated liability
benefit of the settlement of existing matters as well as provisions for for Shionogi’s put option was initially recognised on GSK’s balance
ongoing litigation. Cash payments were £233 million compared with sheet at the end of Q1 2016 and de-recognised in December 2016,
£420 million in 2015. directly to equity, when it stood at £1,244 million. An explanation of
the accounting for the non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare
is set out on page 58.
Divestments and other items
Divestments and other items included equity investment disposals,
including the disposal of the remaining Aspen Pharmacare
investment, dividends and impairments, milestone income on
ofatumumab, a number of other asset disposals, and certain other
adjusting items. Divestments and other items in 2015 included
the profit on the disposal of the Oncology business to Novartis.68 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Core results
Turnover (£bn) Research and development
£27.9 2014 23.0 2016 2015 Growth
bn
% of % of
2015 23.9 £m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Research and
2016 27.9 development (3,468) (12.4) (3,096) (12.9) 12 3
R&D expenditure was £3,468 million (12.4% of turnover), 12% higher
AER growth CER growth than in 2015 and 3% higher on a CER basis, reflecting increased
investment, particularly in Total Pharmaceuticals, which increased
17% 6%
5% CER. The operations of Pharmaceuticals R&D are broadly split
into Discovery activities (up to the completion of phase IIa trials)
Core operating profit (£bn) and Development work (from phase IIb onwards) each supported by
£7.8 2014 6.6 specific and common infrastructure and other shared services where
bn appropriate. Phase IV costs and other administrative expenses are
2015 5.7 reported in SG&A and are not included in the table below.
2016 2015 Growth
2016 7.8
£m £m £% CER%
Discovery 848 744 14 6
AER growth CER growth
Development 1,275 1,136 12 4
36% 14% Facilities and central support functions 505 433 17 9
Total Pharmaceuticals 2,628 2,313 14 5
Vaccines R&D 597 525 14 2
We use core results, which is a non-IFRS measure, among Consumer Healthcare R&D 243 258 (6) (12)
other metrics including total results and cash flow generation, Research and development 3,468 3,096 12 3
to manage the performance of the Group. Non-IFRS measures
The most significant factor driving Total Pharmaceuticals R&D
may be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for or
growth was progression of the ViiV Healthcare HIV portfolio,
superior to, information presented in accordance with IFRS.
including programmes acquired from BMS earlier in the year. The
The definition of core results is set out on page 57.
increase in Discovery was also driven by progression of the early
Cost of sales stage Oncology portfolio and early investment in Bioelectronics.
2016 2015 Growth Development growth was primarily due to the start of new Phase III
% of % of programmes, including HIV, respiratory and anaemia, partly offset
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER% by the benefit from R&D cost reduction programmes. The increase
Cost of sales (8,351) (29.9) (7,520) (31.4) 11 5 in facilities and central support functions costs partly reflected
investment in new data warehousing and analytics to transform the
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 29.9%, down 1.5
way data is harnessed across R&D together with a re-allocation of
percentage points in Sterling terms and 0.3 percentage points in
central support costs.
CER terms compared with 2015. On a pro-forma basis, the cost of
sales percentage decreased 1.8 percentage points compared with Royalty income
2015 and was down 0.6 percentage points in CER terms. This Royalty income was £398 million (2015 – £329 million) primarily
reflected improved product mix, particularly the impact of higher reflecting increased royalty income from Gardasil sales as well as
HIV sales in Pharmaceuticals, but also in Vaccines and Consumer the benefit of a catch-up adjustment to prior-year estimates.
Healthcare, as well as an increased contribution from integration
and restructuring savings in all three businesses, partly offset by Core operating profit
continued adverse pricing pressure in Pharmaceuticals, primarily Core operating profit was £7,771 million, up 36% at actual rates
Respiratory, as well as continued investments in the supply chain. and 14% higher in CER terms than in 2015 on a turnover increase of
6%. The core operating margin of 27.9% was 3.9 percentage points
Selling, general and administration
higher than in 2015 and 1.9 percentage points higher on a CER
2016 2015 Growth basis.
% of % of
On a pro-forma basis, core operating profit was 17% higher in
£m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
CER terms compared with 2015 on turnover growth of 5%. The core
Selling, general and
administration (8,697) (31.2) (7,907) (33.1) 10 2 operating margin of 27.9% was 4.6 percentage points higher than in
2015 and 2.6 percentage points higher in CER terms on a pro-forma
SG&A costs were 31.2% of turnover, 1.9 percentage points lower basis, reflecting improved operating leverage driven by sales growth
than in 2015 and 1.2 percentage points lower on a CER basis. and a more favourable mix across all three businesses as well as
On a pro-forma basis, SG&A as a percentage of sales reduced by delivery of restructuring and integration benefits and tight control of
2.2 percentage points, 1.5 percentage points CER. This primarily ongoing costs, partly offset by continued price pressure, particularly
reflected tight control of ongoing costs as well as the benefits from in Respiratory, and supply chain and R&D investments.
the Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme and integration
benefits in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, partly offset by
investment in promotional product support, particularly for new
launches in Respiratory, HIV, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.69 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Core results continued
Contingent consideration cash payments are made to Shionogi Net finance costs
and other companies, which reduce the balance sheet liability and
2016 2015
hence are not recorded in the income statement. Total contingent Finance income £m £m
consideration cash payments in 2016 amounted to £431 million Interest and other income 70 99
(2015 – £459 million). This included cash payments made by ViiV Fair value movements 2 5
Healthcare to Shionogi in relation to its contingent consideration
72 104
liability (including preferential dividends) which amounted to
£417 million (2015 – £159 million). In 2015 a milestone payment
Finance expense
of £300 million was made to Novartis.
Interest expense (701) (719)
Core operating profit by business Unwinding of discounts on liabilities (4) 1
2015 Remeasurements and fair value movements (4) (8)
2016 (restated) Growth Other finance expense (15) (14)
Margin Margin
(724) (740)
£m % £m % £% CER%
Pharmaceuticals 7,979 49.5 6,466 45.7 23 6 Net core finance expense was £652 million compared with
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,488) (2,168) 15 6 £636 million in 2015, reflecting the translation effect of exchange
Pharmaceuticals 5,491 34.1 4,298 30.4 28 6 rate movements on the reported Sterling costs of foreign currency
Vaccines 1,454 31.7 964 26.4 51 38 denominated interest-bearing instruments.
Consumer Share of after tax profits/(losses) and joint ventures
Healthcare 1,116 15.5 684 11.3 63 42 The share of profits of associates and joint ventures was £5 million
8,061 28.9 5,946 24.9 36 16 (2015 – £2 million loss).
Corporate & other
Core profit before taxation
unallocated costs (290) (217) 34 58
Core operating profit 7,771 27.9 5,729 23.9 36 14 2016 2015 Growth
% of % of
Pharmaceuticals £m turnover £m turnover £% CER%
Pharmaceuticals operating profit was £5,491 million, 6% higher in Core profit before tax 7,124 25.5 5,091 21.3 40 16
CER terms than in 2015 on a turnover increase of 3%. The operating
Taxation
margin of 34.1% was 3.7 percentage points higher than in 2015 and
Tax on core profit amounted to £1,509 million and represented an
1.1 percentage points higher on a CER basis. On a pro-forma basis,
effective core tax rate of 21.2% (2015 – 19.5%). The increase in the
the operating margin increased 1.2 percentage points on a CER
effective rate primarily reflected the Group’s changing earnings mix.
basis, reflecting a more favourable product mix, primarily driven by
See ‘Taxation’ on page 178 for further details.
the growth in HIV sales, and the cost reduction benefit from the
Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme, partly offset by increased Non-controlling interests
investment in new product support, increased investment in R&D in The allocation of earnings to non-controlling interests amounted to
a number of new programmes, the continued impact of lower prices, £637 million (2015 – £440 million), including the non-controlling
particularly in Respiratory, and the broader transition of the interest allocations of Consumer Healthcare profits of £288 million
Respiratory portfolio. (2015 – £137 million) and the allocation of ViiV Healthcare profits,
which increased to £324 million (2015 – £224 million) including the
Vaccines
impact of changes in the proportions of preferential dividends due
Vaccines operating profit was £1,454 million, 38% higher than in
to each shareholder based on the relative performance of different
2015 in CER terms on a turnover increase of 14%. The operating
products in the year. The allocation also reflected the impact on
profit margin of 31.7% was 5.3 percentage points higher than in
the contribution of some of the Group’s other entities with non-
2015 and 5.6 percentage points higher on a CER basis. On a
controlling interests primarily as a result of net losses in those
pro-forma basis, the operating margin improved by 7.3 percentage
entities arising from exchange.
points and 7.6 points in CER terms primarily driven by improved
product mix and enhanced operating leverage from strong sales Core earnings per share
growth, together with restructuring and integration benefits in cost of Core EPS of 102.4p was up 35% at actual rates and 12% in
sales, SG&A and R&D, and higher royalty income. These were partly CER terms compared with a 14% CER increase in operating profit,
offset by SG&A investments to support business growth, a number primarily reflecting the increased tax rate compared with 2015 and
of inventory adjustments and additional supply chain investments. the greater contribution to growth from businesses in which there
are significant non-controlling interests.
Consumer Healthcare
Consumer Healthcare operating profit was £1,116 million, 42%
higher than in 2015 in CER terms on a turnover increase of 9%.
The operating margin of 15.5% was 4.2 percentage points higher
than in 2015 and 3.4 percentage points higher on a CER basis.
On a pro-forma basis, the Consumer Healthcare operating margin
was 3.7 percentage points higher on a CER basis due to
improvements in gross margin, reflecting mix benefits from the
power brand strategy and better pricing, as well as a strong
contribution from integration synergies benefiting both SG&A
and R&D as a percentage of sales.70 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Pro-forma growth rate reconciliations
The following table sets out reconciliations between reported CER growth rates and pro-forma CER growth rates on the stated items of turnover
for 2016.
Adjustment to include Adjustment to include Adjustment to exclude
January and February January and February January and February
2015 turnover 2015 turnover of former 2015 turnover of former
Reported of former Novartis Novartis Consumer GSK Oncology Pro-forma
growth rate Vaccines products Healthcare products products growth rate
Turnover 2016 CER% CER% CER% CER% CER%
Group turnover 6 – (2) 1 5
US 10 – – 1 11
Europe 6 – (2) 1 5
International 1 – (1) – –
Pharmaceuticals 3 1 4
US Pharmaceuticals 10 2 12
Europe Pharmaceuticals – 2 2
International Pharmaceuticals (3) – (3)
Emerging Markets Pharmaceuticals (4) 1 (3)
Japan Pharmaceuticals (5) – (5)
Vaccines 14 (2) 12
US Vaccines 13 (1) 12
Europe Vaccines 18 (2) 16
International Vaccines 10 (2) 8
Menveo 16 (8) 8
Other Vaccines 6 (10) (4)
Consumer Healthcare 9 (4) 5
US Consumer Healthcare 9 (4) 5
Europe Consumer Healthcare 12 (8) 4
International Consumer Healthcare 8 (3) 5
Wellness 15 (9) 6
Oral health 8 – 8
Nutrition (8) (1) (9)
Skin health 4 (6) (2)
The following table sets out reconciliations between reported CER growth rates and pro-forma CER growth rates for the stated core expense
headings and core operating profit for 2016.
Adjustment to include Adjustment to include Adjustment to exclude
January and February January and February January and February
2015 turnover of former 2015 turnover of former 2015 turnover of former
Reported Novartis Vaccines Novartis Consumer GSK Oncology Pro-forma
Core expenses and
growth rate products Healthcare products products growth rate
operating profit 2016 CER% CER% CER% CER% CER%
Cost of sales 5 (1) (2) 1 3
Selling, general and administration 2 (1) (2) 1 –
Research and development 3 (1) – 1 3
Royalty income 16 (1) 2 – 17
Core operating profit 14 1 – 2 17
Pharmaceuticals operating profit 6 2 8
Pharmaceuticals operating profit
excluding R&D 6 2 8
Pharmaceuticals R&D 6 2 8
Vaccines operating profit 38 9 47
Consumer Healthcare operating profit 42 (2) 4071 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Cash generation and conversion
A summary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out below. Reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities to free
cash flow and adjusted free cash flow
2016 2015
£m £m A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, which is
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,497 2,569 the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash flow is shown below.
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities (1,269) 6,037
2016 2015
Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,392) (7,103) £m £m
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,164) 1,503 Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,497 2,569
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,543) (1,380)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,486 4,028
Purchase of intangible assets (809) (521)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,164) 1,503
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 98 72
Exchange adjustments 283 (45)
Interest paid (732) (762)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 4,605 5,486
Interest received 68 99
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 42 5
comprise:
Distributions to non-controlling interests (534) (237)
Cash and cash equivalents 4,897 5,830
Free cash flow 3,087 (155)
Overdrafts (292) (344)
Legal payments 233 420
4,605 5,486
Adjusted free cash flow 3,320 265
Adjusted net cash inflow from operating activities 6,730 2,989
Future cash flow
The net cash inflow from operating activities for the year was Over the long term, we expect that future cash generated from
£6,497 million (2015 – £2,569 million). The increase primarily operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and debt servicing
reflected the improved operating performance across all segments costs, normal levels of capital expenditure, obligations under
and a positive currency benefit. Excluding legal settlements of existing licensing agreements, expenditure arising from restructuring
£233 million (2015 – £420 million) adjusted net cash inflow from programmes and other routine outflows including tax, pension
operating activities was £6,730 million (2015 – £2,989 million). In contributions and dividends, subject to the ‘Principal risks and
addition, there were payments of restructuring and integration costs uncertainties’ discussed on pages 253 to 262. We may from time
of £1,077 million (2015 – £1,131 million) and a further tax payment to time have additional demands for finance, such as for acquisitions,
of £125 million (2015 – £1,071 million) on the sale of the Oncology including potentially acquiring increased ownership portions of the
business, both of which have been funded from divestment ViiV Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare businesses where
proceeds. minority shareholders hold put options, and share repurchases. We
Total cash payments made by ViiV Healthcare to Shionogi in have access to multiple sources of liquidity from short and long-term
relation to its contingent consideration liability (including preferential capital markets and financial institutions, in addition to the cash flow
dividends) in the year were £417 million (2015 – £159 million), of from operations, for such needs.
which £351 million (2015 – £121 million) was recognised in cash Investment appraisal
flows from operating activities and £66 million (2015 – £38 million) We have a formal process for assessing potential investment
was recognised within investing cash flows. proposals in order to ensure decisions are aligned with our overall
Free cash flow strategy. This process includes an assessment of the cash flow
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business return on any individual investment (CFROI), as well as its net present
after meeting our obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to value (NPV) and internal rate of return (IRR) where the timeline for the
non-controlling interests, and after capital expenditure on property, project is very long term. We also consider the impact on EPS and
plant and equipment and intangible assets. our credit profile where relevant.
2016 2015 The discount rate used to perform financial analyses is decided
£m £m internally, to allow determination of the extent to which investments
Free cash inflow/(outflow) 3,087 (155) cover our cost of capital. For specific investments the discount rate
Adjusted free cash flow 3,320 265 may be adjusted to take into account country or other risk weightings.
Free cash flow was £3,087 million for the year (2015 – £155 million Working capital
outflow). Excluding legal payments, adjusted free cash flow was Our working capital programme has continued to make progress
£3,320 million (2015 – £265 million) but this was also after making with further improvements in the collection of receivables and
restructuring and integration payments, the additional tax payment on inventory management.
the sale of the Oncology business and the purchase of HIV Clinical
2016 2015
assets for £221 million, which are treated as intangible asset
Working capital percentage of turnover (%) 22 23
purchases. Excluding these items, which are being funded from
divestment proceeds, the adjusted free cash flow would have been Working capital conversion cycle (days) 193 191
£4,743 million (2015 – £2,467 million).
The reported working capital conversion cycle days in 2015 were
Capital expenditure and financial investment distorted by a temporary favourable impact of 15 days arising from the
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted to Novartis transaction. Excluding this impact, the conversion cycle for
£2,352 million (2015 – £1,901 million) and disposals realised £453 2015 was around 206 days. The resulting reduction of 13 days in
million (2015 – £10,554 million). Cash payments to acquire equity 2016 compared with 2015 was predominantly due to a beneficial
investments of £96 million (2015 – £82 million) were made and sales impact from exchange, reduced receivables days from improved
of equity investments realised £683 million (2015 – £357 million). collections and reduced inventory days.72 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources
Property, plant and equipment
2016 2015
£m £m Our business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
Assets regulated by governmental authorities. We allocate significant
Non-current assets financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of our property,
plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption to production
Property, plant and equipment 10,808 9,668
and to ensure compliance with regulatory standards. A number of
Goodwill 5,965 5,162
our processes use hazardous materials.
Other intangible assets 18,776 16,672
Investments in associates and joint ventures 263 207 The total cost of our property, plant and equipment at 31 December
2016 was £22,164 million, with a net book value of £10,808 million.
Other investments 985 1,255
Of this, land and buildings represented £4,223 million, plant and
Deferred tax assets 4,374 2,905
equipment £3,481 million and assets in construction £3,104 million.
Other non-current assets 1,199 990 In 2016, we invested £1,544 million in new property, plant and
Total non-current assets 42,370 36,859 equipment. This was mainly related to a large number of projects
for the renewal, improvement and expansion of facilities at various
Current assets
worldwide sites. Property is mainly held freehold. New investment
Inventories 5,102 4,716 is financed from our liquid resources. At 31 December 2016, we
Current tax recoverable 226 180 had contractual commitments for future capital expenditure of £496
Trade and other receivables 6,026 5,615 million and operating lease commitments of £840 million. We believe
Derivative financial instruments 156 125 that our facilities are adequate for our current needs.
Liquid investments 89 75 We observe stringent procedures and use specialist skills to
Cash and cash equivalents 4,897 5,830 manage environmental risks from our activities. Environmental issues,
Assets held for sale 215 46 sometimes dating from operations now modified or discontinued,
Total current assets 16,711 16,587 are reported under ‘Our planet’ on page 50 and in Note 46 to the
financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Total assets 59,081 53,446
Goodwill
Liabilities Goodwill increased during the year to £5,965 million at 31
Current liabilities December 2016, from £5,162 million. The increase primarily
Short-term borrowings (4,129) (1,308) reflected the impact of exchange movements.
Contingent consideration liability (561) (306) Other intangible assets
Trade and other payables (11,964) (8,885) Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from
Derivative financial instruments (194) (153) third parties and computer software. The net book value of other
Current tax payable (1,305) (1,421) intangible assets as at 31 December 2016 was £18,776 million
Short-term provisions (848) (1,344) (2015 – £16,672 million). The increase in 2016 reflected the impact
of exchange movements, development costs capitalised during the
Total current liabilities (19,001) (13,417)
year of £240 million, partly offset by the amortisation and impairment
Non-current liabilities of existing intangibles of £796 million and £29 million, respectively.
Long-term borrowings (14,661) (15,324) Investments in associates and joint ventures
Deferred tax liabilities (1,934) (1,522) We held investments in associates and joint ventures, with a carrying
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (4,090) (3,229) value at 31 December 2016 of £263 million (2015 – £207 million).
Other provisions (652) (420) The market value at 31 December 2016 was £502 million (2015 –
Contingent consideration liability (5,335) (3,549) £267 million). The largest of these investments was in Innoviva Inc.
which had a book value at 31 December 2016 of £138 million
Other non-current liabilities (8,445) (7,107)
(2015 – £112 million). The market value at 31 December 2016 was
Total non-current liabilities (35,117) (31,151)
£278 million. See Note 20 to the financial statements ‘Investments
Total liabilities (54,118) (44,568) in associates and joint ventures’.
Net assets 4,963 8,878
Equity
Share capital 1,342 1,340
Share premium account 2,954 2,831
Retained earnings (5,392) (1,397)
Other reserves 2,220 2,340
Shareholders’ equity 1,124 5,114
Non-controlling interests 3,839 3,764
Total equity 4,963 8,87873 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial position and resources continued
Other investments Other non-current liabilities
We held other investments with a carrying value at 31 December Other non-current liabilities of £8,445 million at 31 December 2016
2016 of £985 million (2015 – £1,255 million). The decrease in the (2015 – £7,107 million) included £7,420 million (2015 – £6,287
carrying value during the year was primarily due to the sale of the million) related to the present value of the estimated amount payable
Group’s remaining stake in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited by us in the event of full exercise of Novartis’ right to require us to
which had a book value at 31 December 2015 of £383 million. acquire its 36.5% shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint
The most significant of the investments held at 31 December 2016 Venture. Further details are provided in Note 3, ‘Key accounting
was in Theravance Biopharma, Inc. which had a book value at 31 judgements and estimates’.
December 2016 of £248 million (2015 – £93 million). The other
Contingent consideration liabilities
investments included equity stakes in companies with which we
Contingent consideration liabilities amounted to £5,896 million at
have research collaborations, which provide access to biotechnology
31 December 2016 (2015 – £3,855 million), of which £5,304 million
developments of potential interest and interests in companies that
(2015 – £3,409 million) represented the estimated present value of
arise from business divestments.
amounts payable to Shionogi relating to ViiV Healthcare and £545
Derivative financial instruments: assets million (2015 – £405 million) represented the estimated present
We had current derivative financial instruments held at fair value value of contingent consideration payable to Novartis related to the
of £156 million (2015 – £125 million). The majority of this amount Vaccines acquisition. The liability due to Shionogi included £224
related to foreign exchange contracts both designated and not million in respect of preferential dividends of which £154 million was
designated as accounting hedges. recognised directly in equity in the year. The liability for preferential
dividends due to Pfizer at 31 December 2016 was £23 million. An
Inventories
explanation of the accounting treatment of our interests in ViiV
Inventory of £5,102 million increased from £4,716 million in 2015.
Healthcare is set out on page 58.
The increase primarily reflected the impact of exchange movements.
Net debt
Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables of £6,026 million increased from 2016 2015
£m £m
£5,615 million in 2015, primarily reflecting exchange movements.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 4,986 5,905
Derivative financial instruments: liabilities
Borrowings – repayable within one year (4,129) (1,308)
We held current derivative financial instruments at fair value of
Borrowings – repayable after one year (14,661) (15,324)
£194 million (2015 – £153 million). This primarily related to foreign
Net debt (13,804) (10,727)
exchange contracts both designated and not designated as
accounting hedges.
At 31 December 2016, net debt was £13.8 billion, compared
Trade and other payables with £10.7 billion at 31 December 2015, comprising gross debt
Trade and other payables amounting to £11,964 million increased of £18.8 billion and cash and liquid investments of £5.0 billion.
from £8,885 million in 2015, reflecting the Pfizer put option related The increase in net debt primarily reflected a £2.2 billion adverse
to ViiV Healthcare recognised in the year, an increase in accruals for exchange impact from the translation of non-Sterling denominated
customer returns and rebates and the impact of exchange debt and exchange on other financing items, dividends paid to
movements. shareholders of £4.9 billion including the special dividend of
£1.0 billion, partly offset by free cash flow of £3.1 billion and
Provisions
asset disposals of £1.0 billion.
We carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and
non-current provisions of £3,434 million at 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2016, our cash and liquid investments were held
(2015 – £3,286 million) of which £344 million (2015 – £352 million) as follows:
related to legal and other disputes and £554 million (2015 – £816
2016 2015
million) related to the major restructuring programme. Provision £m £m
has been made for legal and other disputes, indemnified disposal Bank balances and deposits 2,583 3,767
liabilities, employee related liabilities and the costs of the US Treasury and Treasury repo
restructuring programme to the extent that at the balance sheet
only money market funds 2,248 624
date a legal or constructive obligation existed and could be
Liquidity funds 66 1,439
reliably estimated.
Government securities 89 75
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
4,986 5,905
We account for pension and other post-employment arrangements
in accordance with IAS 19. The deficits, net of surpluses before Cash and liquid investments of £3.2 billion (2015 – £4.2 billion) were
allowing for deferred taxation were £2,084 million (2015 – held centrally at 31 December 2016.
£1,584 million) on pension arrangements and £1,693 million
(2015 – £1,387 million) on unfunded post-employment liabilities.
The increases in the deficits were predominantly driven by lower
discount rates that we used to discount the value of the liabilities,
together with an increase in the UK inflation rate assumptions
and a stronger US Dollar at the year end, partly offset by special
funding contributions to the UK schemes and significant UK
asset gains.74 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Financial position and resources continued
Maturity profile of gross debt
Maturity profile of gross debt
£m equivalent
4,500
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
2017 2018 2019 2022 2023 2024 2025 2027 2033 2034 2038 2039 2042 2043 2045
GBP bonds EUR bonds USD bonds Commercial paper Other bank borrowings Leases
The analysis of cash and gross debt after the effects of hedging Total equity
is as follows. At 31 December 2016, total equity had decreased from £8,878
million at 31 December 2015 to £4,963 million. This primarily
2016 2015 reflected the recognition of the transaction-related adjustments
£m £m
of £3,919 million, the impact of the dividends paid and an increase
Cash and liquid investments 4,986 5,905
in the pension deficit of £500 million, partly offset by the profit for the
Gross debt – fixed (17,288) (16,129)
year and the favourable exchange translation impact from the weaker
– floating (1,496) (502)
Sterling rates.
– non-interest bearing (6) (1)
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
Net debt (13,804) (10,727)
2016 2015
£m £m
Movements in net debt
Total equity at beginning of year 8,878 4,936
2016 2015 Total comprehensive income for the year 2,024 7,885
£m £m
Dividends to shareholders (4,850) (3,874)
Net debt at beginning of year (10,727) (14,377)
Ordinary shares issued 89 73
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,164) 1,503
Gain on transfer of net assets
Increase in liquid investments – 2
into Consumer Healthcare JV – 2,891
Net (increase in)/repayment of short-term loans (148) 2,412
Consumer Healthcare JV put option – (6,204)
Exchange movements (1,781) (268)
Loss on transfer of equity investment to
Other movements 16 1
investment in associate – (229)
Net debt at end of year (13,804) (10,727)
Changes in non-controlling interests 32 3,370
Recognition of liabilities with non-controlling interests (2,172) –
De-recognition of liabilities with non-controlling
interests 1,244 –
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (74) (99)
Share-based incentive plans 319 356
Tax on share-based incentive plans 7 10
Distributions to non-controlling interests (534) (237)
Total equity at end of year 4,963 8,87875 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial position and resources continued
Share purchases We have entered into a number of research collaborations to develop
In 2016, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. The terms
acquired £74 million of shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc (2015 – of these arrangements can include upfront fees, equity investments,
£99 million). Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future exercises loans and commitments to fund specified levels of research. In
of options and awards under the Group share option and award addition, we will often agree to make further payments if future
schemes. A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in ‘milestones’ are achieved.
respect of awards where the rules of the scheme require us to satisfy
As some of these agreements relate to compounds in the early
exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of new
stages of development, the potential obligation to make milestone
shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to options and
payments will continue for a number of years if the compounds move
awards granted.
successfully through the development process. Generally, the closer
At 31 December 2016, the ESOP Trusts held 43 million (2015 – the product is to marketing approval, the greater the probability
30 million) GSK shares against the future exercise of share options of success. The amounts shown above within intangible assets
and share awards. The carrying value of £286 million (2015 – represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones were
£75 million) has been deducted from other reserves. The market achieved, and include £6.2 billion which relates to externalised
value of these shares was £667 million (2015 – £409 million). projects in the discovery portfolio. A number of new commitments
were made in 2016 under licensing and other agreements, offset
During 2016, no shares were repurchased. At 31 December 2016,
by amendments to existing agreements.
we held 458.2 million shares as Treasury shares (2015 – 491.5
million shares), at a cost of £6,451 million (2015 – £6,917 million), In 2016, we reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK
which has been deducted from retained earnings. pension schemes to make additional contributions, including in 2016,
to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2014
No ordinary shares were purchased in the period 1 January 2017
actuarial funding valuation. The table above includes this commitment
to 13 March 2017 and the company does not expect to make any
but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement in the
ordinary share repurchases in the remainder of 2017.
UK of approximately £130 million. For further information on pension
Commitments and contingent liabilities obligations, see Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and
Financial commitments are summarised in Note 41 to the financial other post-employment benefits’.
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
Contingent liabilities
obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising
Note 32 to the financial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ and
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other
Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Net debt’.
items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits are expected to expire.
set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other
post-employment benefits’. Amounts provided for restructuring Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
£m £m £m £m £m
programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set
out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’. Guarantees 172 110 3 – 59
Other contingent liabilities 109 16 40 6 47
Contractual obligations and commitments
Total 281 126 43 6 106
The following table sets out our contractual obligations and
commitments at 31 December 2016 as they fall due for payment.
In the normal course of business, we have provided various
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in
£m £m £m £m £m which legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A provision
Loans 18,849 4,108 3,500 – 11,241 is made where an outflow of resources is considered probable and
Interest on loans 9,410 705 1,069 992 6,644 a reliable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute
and this is included in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other
Finance lease obligations 64 23 34 7 –
provisions’.
Finance lease charges 3 2 1 – –
Operating lease We provide for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes when an
outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate
commitments 840 153 223 140 324
of the outflow may be made. At 31 December 2016, other than for
Intangible assets 7,199 514 648 1,082 4,955
those disputes where provision has been made, it was not possible
Property, plant & equipment 496 385 111 – –
to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might
Investments 166 79 53 32 2 be required to settle disputes where the possibility of there being an
Purchase commitments 52 23 29 – – outflow was more than remote.
Pensions 874 136 246 246 246
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary significantly from the
Other commitments 143 45 76 22 –
amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
Total 38,096 6,173 5,990 2,521 23,412 proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. This
Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on loans is discussed further in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages
are disclosed before taking into account the effect of derivatives. 253 to 262 and Notes 14 and 46 to the financial statements,
‘Taxation’ and ‘Legal proceedings’.76 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Critical accounting policies
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also Pharmaceuticals business, including Puerto Rico, is as follows:
with IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies
2015 2014
approved by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial 2016 (restated) (restated)
statements, ‘Accounting principles and policies’. Margin Margin Margin
£m % £m % £m %
We are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect
Gross turnover 13,363 100 10,093 100 8,838 100
the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported
in the financial statements. Actual amounts and results could differ Market driven
from those estimates. segments (2,749) (21) (1,761) (17) (1,274) (14)
The critical accounting policies relate to the following areas: Government
mandated and
– Turnover state programs (3,070) (23) (2,357) (23) (1,697) (19)
– Taxation (Note 14) Cash discounts (261) (2) (192) (2) (169) (2)
– Legal and other disputes (Notes 29 and 46) Customer returns (98) (1) (93) (1) (69) (1)
Prior year adjustments 109 1 142 1 169 2
– Goodwill and other intangible asset impairments (Notes 18
and 19) Other items (457) (3) (298) (3) (181) (2)
Total deductions (6,526) (49) (4,559) (45) (3,221) (36)
– Business combinations (Note 38)
Net turnover 6,837 51 5,534 55 5,617 64
– Pensions and other post-employment benefits (Note 28).
Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas Market driven segments consist primarily of Managed Care and
is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, ‘Key accounting Medicare plans with which GSK negotiates contract pricing that
judgements and estimates’. is honoured via rebates and chargebacks. Mandated segments
consist primarily of Medicaid and Federal Government programmes
Turnover
which receive government mandated pricing via rebates and
In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, our largest business
chargebacks.
is US Pharmaceuticals, and the US market has the most complex
arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances. The following The increased deductions in the market driven segments of the
briefly describes the nature of the arrangements in existence in our gross turnover to net turnover reconciliation primarily reflected
US Pharmaceuticals business: higher rebates and chargebacks on Respiratory products, and
on Advair in particular. During 2016, Advair accounted for 27% of
– We have arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby
US Pharmaceuticals turnover and approximately 45% of the total
the customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at reduced
deduction for rebates and returns, and the Respiratory portfolio as
prices. A chargeback represents the difference between the
a whole accounted for approximately 75% of the total deduction in
invoice price to the wholesaler and the indirect customer’s
the year. Advair continued to suffer pricing pressure in 2016 as the
contractual discounted price. Accruals for estimating chargebacks
business sought to transition its Respiratory portfolio to newer
are calculated based on the terms of each agreement, historical
products.
experience and product growth rates
The balance sheet accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances
– Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and Group
and returns for the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses
Purchasing Organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect
are managed on a combined basis. At 31 December 2016, the
customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve
total accrual amounted to £2,218 million (2015 – £1,671 million).
certain performance targets relating to the value of product
purchased, formulary status or pre-determined market shares A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at
relative to competitors. The accrual for customer rebates is wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses
estimated based on the specific terms in each agreement, gross sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party
historical experience and product growth rates data sources and information received from key wholesalers. The
– The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme aim of this is to maintain inventories at a consistent level from year
providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients. In to year based on the pattern of consumption.
1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to On this basis, US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines inventory levels at
reduce State and Federal expenditure on prescription drugs. In wholesalers and in other distribution channels at 31 December 2016
2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became law. were estimated to amount to approximately five weeks of turnover.
We participate by providing rebates to states. Accruals for Medicaid This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy of which
rebates are calculated based on the specific terms of the relevant cannot be totally verified, but is believed to be sufficiently reliable for
regulations or the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act this purpose.
– Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and
adjusted subsequently to reflect actual experience
– We record an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying
historical experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced,
together with market related information such as stock levels at
wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.77 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Critical accounting policies continued
Legal and other disputes Like many pharmaceutical companies, we are faced with various
In respect of the accounting policy for Legal and other disputes, complex product liability, anti-trust and patent litigation, as well as
the following briefly describes the process by which we determine investigations of its operations conducted by various governmental
the level of provision that is necessary. regulatory agencies. Throughout the year, the General Counsel of
the Group, as head of the Group’s legal function, and the Senior
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 37, ‘Provisions,
Vice President and Head of Global Litigation for the Group, who is
contingent liabilities and contingent assets’, we provide for
responsible for all litigation and government investigations, routinely
anticipated settlement costs where an outflow of resources is
brief the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the
considered probable and a reliable estimate may be made of the
Board of Directors on the significant litigation pending against the
likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other expenses arising
Group and governmental investigations of the Group.
from claims against the Group. We may become involved in
significant legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible These meetings, as appropriate, detail the status of significant litigation
to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, and government investigations and review matters such as the number
that could result from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these of claims notified to us, information on potential claims not yet notified,
cases, appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included assessment of the validity of claims, progress made in settling claims,
in the Annual Report, but no provision would be made. recent settlement levels and potential reimbursement by insurers.
This position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no The meetings also include an assessment of whether or not there
assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal is sufficient information available for us to be able to make a reliable
proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the amount of the estimate of the potential outcomes of the disputes. Often, external
provisions reported in the Group’s financial statements. counsel assisting us with various litigation matters and investigations
will also assist in the briefing of the Board and senior management.
Following these discussions, for those matters where it is possible to
make a reliable estimate of the amount of a provision, if any, that may
be required, the level of provision for legal and other disputes is
reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. These matters are discussed
further in Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Treasury policies
We report in Sterling and pay dividends out of Sterling cash flows. Capital management
The role of Treasury is to monitor and manage the Group’s external Our financial strategy, implemented through the Group’s Financial
and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of architecture, supports GSK’s strategic priorities and it is regularly
our strategic objectives. GSK operates on a global basis, primarily reviewed by the Board. We manage the capital structure of the
through subsidiary companies, and we manage our capital to ensure Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity.
that our subsidiaries are able to operate as going concerns and to
GSK’s long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A+
optimise returns to shareholders through an appropriate balance
(stable outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’)
of debt and equity. Treasury activities are governed by policies
is A2 (negative outlook). Our short-term credit ratings are A-1 and
approved annually by the Board of Directors, and most recently
P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
on 21 July 2016. A Treasury Management Group (TMG) meeting,
chaired by our Chief Financial Officer, takes place on a monthly Liquidity risk management
basis to review treasury activities. Its members receive management Our policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated funding
information relating to these activities. requirements. Our cash flow forecasts and funding requirements are
monitored by the TMG on a monthly basis. Our strategy is to diversify
Treasury operations
liquidity sources using a range of facilities and to maintain broad
The objective of our Treasury activity is to minimise the post-tax net
access to financial markets.
cost of financial operations and reduce its volatility in order to benefit
earnings and cash flows. We use a variety of financial instruments to Each day, we sweep cash from a number of global subsidiaries to
finance our operations and derivative financial instruments to manage central Treasury accounts for liquidity management purposes.
market risks from these operations. These derivatives, principally Interest rate risk management
comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts Our objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and to
and swaps, are used to swap borrowings and liquid assets into balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over time.
currencies required for Group purposes and to manage exposure The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount of
to financial risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of operating
interest rates. profit.
We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes
and GSK’s Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity.
All transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage
the risks arising from underlying business activities.78 GSK Annual Report 2016
Group financial review continued
Treasury policies continued
Foreign exchange risk management Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external trade that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated
flows are not normally hedged. Foreign currency transaction as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major
exposures arising on internal trade flows are selectively hedged. currencies are also used to reduce exposure to the Group’s
Our objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating investment in overseas Group assets. The TMG reviews the
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies monthly.
with local currency costs where possible. GSK’s internal trading
Counterparty risk management
transactions are matched centrally and we manage inter-company
We set global counterparty limits for each of our banking and
payment terms to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from
cash flows can be hedged selectively under the management of
Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Treasury’s usage of these limits
Treasury and the TMG. These include hedges of the foreign
is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer (CCO) who
exchange risk arising from acquisitions and disposals of assets.
operates independently of Treasury. Any breach of these limits would
Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing
be reported to the CFO immediately.
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and,
currency. when changes in ratings occur, notifies Treasury so that changes can
be made to investment levels or to authority limits as appropriate.
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek
In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are reviewed
to denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets
regularly and a report is presented annually to the TMG for approval.
and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US Dollars,
Euros and Sterling. Borrowings can be swapped into other
currencies as required.
Strategic report
The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on
13 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
Simon Dingemans
Chief Financial Officer
13 March 201779 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Corporate
Governance
In this section
Chairman’s Governance statement 80
Our Board 82
Our Corporate Executive Team 86
Leadership and effectiveness 88
Nominations Committee report 94
Accountability 97
Audit & Risk Committee report 97
Relations with shareholders 107
Engagement activities 107
Corporate Responsibility Committee report 108
Directors’ report 11080 GSK Annual Report 2016
Chairman’s Governance statement
Dear Shareholder Under Sir Andrew’s leadership, GSK has
successfully developed market-leading
positions in Vaccines and Consumer
I am pleased to present our Corporate
Healthcare. These provide excellent
Governance Report for 2016.
platforms for sustainable, long-term growth,
The Board remains committed to the highest and we are confident Emma will successfully
standards of corporate governance and build on these strengths and further
integrity. Our governance structure operates strengthen the Pharmaceuticals business.
from the Board across the Group, and we Since her appointment as CEO Designate
believe that it is critical in underpinning our in September 2016, and in the run up to
ability to deliver our strategy and to create assuming the role of CEO on 1 April 2017,
Last year, we reported long-term value for our shareholders. she is focusing completely on the transition.
the steps taken to refresh CEO and executive management She is spending time with Sir Andrew so
succession he can share his knowledge and experience
our non-executive
Last year, we reported the steps taken to and make key introductions, while also
representation on the refresh our non-executive representation on deepening her understanding of the
the Board to address a number of planned business, especially R&D, Pharmaceuticals
Board to address a retirements. This year, the Board’s primary and Vaccines. She has also started to meet
number of planned focus was on executive succession. The with major shareholders to listen to their
review of Talent and Leadership Strategy views on GSK. She will share her strategic
retirements. This year, has been an annual item of Board and overview and vision for the Group later in
Nominations Committee discussion and the year. Details of her induction plan are
the Board’s primary
oversight. When Sir Andrew Witty indicated, set out on page 91.
focus was on executive in March 2016, his intention to retire from the A further change was made to our executive
Board in early 2017, we were well placed to representation on the Board when Dr
succession.
accelerate an orderly CEO succession and Moncef Slaoui, Chairman, Global Vaccines,
transition plan. The process we followed is indicated his intention to retire from the
described in the report of our Nominations Board in 2017. In addition, Dr Patrick
Committee on pages 94 to 96. Vallance, President, R&D, has been
The Board was unanimous in supporting appointed to the Board.
the appointment of Emma Walmsley, who I would like to express my gratitude to both
previously led GSK’s Consumer Healthcare Sir Andrew and Moncef for their dedication
business, as our new CEO. It was felt that and service to GSK over the years and their
her leadership skills, history of delivering professionalism and support in facilitating an
growth and driving performance and fresh orderly Board succession process.
thinking made her an ideal choice.81 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Review of our Board governance Finance Committee: After reviewing the I seek to ensure that everything that we as a
arrangements role of our Finance Committee, the Board Board do is guided by our commitment to
The Board keeps the functioning of its decided that a specific committee was no our values and to being in compliance with
governance framework under regular review. longer required. Its responsibilities have the local laws and regulations within which
During the year, it made the following been reassigned to the Board or our Audit we operate. GSK’s Code of Conduct
enhancements: & Risk Committee. (Code) draws together a number of our key
policies that lay the foundations of these
Science Committee: The Board decided Culture and values
commitments and provides a working guide
to establish a Science Committee to look As Chairman, I am responsible for leading
for the way in which we apply our values
at our science, pipeline and R&D capital and ensuring we have an effective Board.
across our global operations.
allocation priorities. It is chaired by Dr Jesse I also actively encourage a culture and
Goodman, one of our designated Scientific environment in the boardroom that facilitates Indeed, the Board felt it was important
and Medical Experts, and its members all debate and where our Non-Executive to lead by example and has chosen to
have a background in life sciences from Directors are able to provide constructive undertake the same annual training on
either a specialist or commercial perspective. challenge to management. I am pleased to our Code obligations as our employees.
This matter has been under consideration advise that I believe the Board is hard- The latest version of the Code, which was
for some time and the timing of its working and engaged, with an appropriate updated and strengthened in April 2016,
implementation has been driven by the balance of skills and experience. The newer is available in the governance area of
following considerations: appointees are bringing fresh insights and www.gsk.com.
perspectives to further improve our decision
– science and innovation underpins each UK Corporate Governance Code
making. Our recent annual Board evaluation
of our businesses in Pharmaceuticals, compliance
exercise was carried out by the Company
Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare; I am pleased to report that we were in full
Secretary and centred on identifying further
compliance with the requirements of the
– our R&D organisation continues to deliver performance improvements. The evaluation
Financial Reporting Council’s 2014 UK
significant innovation for the Group, with outcomes are set out on page 92. Our 2017
Corporate Governance Code (UK Code)
a number of decisions for potential new Board evaluation will be undertaken by an
– a copy of the UK Code is available on
medicines and vaccines coming up in the independent external Board review
www.frc.org.uk. The following pages outline
next two years. This Committee can help specialist. The last such independent
our approach to corporate governance.
bring a greater focus to the Board’s evaluation was carried out in 2014.
deliberations on R&D at a critical phase I commend this report to all of our
No less important for myself, in setting the
for the company; shareholders.
tone of the organisation from the top, is
– the Board is looking to further increase its promoting the values-based conduct and
scientific capabilities with a search for a behaviours of our people that flow from
third Scientific and Medical Expert and the Boardroom through every artery of
establishing this Committee is in step with the business.
this approach.
Philip Hampton
Chairman
13 March 201782 GSK Annual Report 2016
Our Board
Board composition
Gender diversity
Board
As at date of publication As at 1 April 2017
Male 69% Male 64%
Sir Philip Hampton 63 Sir Andrew Witty 52
Female 31% Female 36%
Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer
Executive N
As at date of publication As at 1 April 2017
Nationality Nationality
Male 80% Male 67% British British
Female 20% Female 33% Appointed Appointed
1 January 2015. Deputy Chairman 31 January 2008. Chief Executive
from 1 April 2015 and Non-Executive Officer from 21 May 2008. Sir
Non-Executive Chairman from 7 May 2015 Andrew is retiring from the Board
As at date of publication As at 1 April 2017 on 31 March 2017.
Skills and experience
Male 62% Male 62% Prior to joining GSK, Sir Philip Skills and experience
chaired major FTSE 100 companies, Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985.
Female 38% Female 38% including The Royal Bank of He has worked in the UK, South
Scotland Group plc and J Sainsbury Africa, the US and Singapore in
plc. He has also served as Group various senior roles. In 2003, he was
TeTneurne uNroen- ENxeocnu-tiEvexecutive Finance Director at Lloyds TSB appointed President of Europe and
Group, BT Group plc, BG Group joined GSK’s Corporate Executive
As at 1 April 2017
plc, British Gas plc and British Team. Andrew has served in
1
4 1. Up to 3 years 63% Steel plc. Sir Philip was previously numerous advisory roles to
appointed an Executive Director Governments around the world,
2. 3-6 years 25%
of Lazards and a Non-Executive including South Africa, Singapore,
3. 7-9 years 0% Director at RMC Group Plc and Guangzhou China and the UK,
4. Over 9 years 12% Belgacom SA. Until 2009, he was where he was a member of the Prime
2 Chairman of UK Financial Minister’s Business Advisory Group
Investments Limited, which manages from 2010-2015. He was awarded
the UK Government’s shareholdings a Knighthood for services to the
1C. oUCmpop tomos 3ipt ioyoenasristion 62% in banks. e pc ho arn mom acy
e
a un tid
c
ato
l
inth de
u
sU tK
ry in the
2. 3-6 years 25% As at 1 April 2017 External appointments 2012 New Year Honours List.
3. 7-9 years 1 0% Sir Philip is currently the Senior
4. Over 9 years 13% 1. Executive 27% Independent Director of Anglo External appointments
2. Non-Executive 73% American Plc, Chairman of its Sir Andrew is a UK Business
Remuneration Committee and Ambassador and serves on the
member of its Audit Committee. China-Britain Business Council
2
Sir Philip is also Chair of the Advisory Council and the EDB
Hampton-Alexander Review International Advisory Committee,
on FTSE Women Leaders, an Singapore. Sir Andrew is also
independent review on improving Co-Chair of a UK EU Life Sciences
1. EInxetceurtniveational expe3r8ie%nce gender balance in FTSE leadership. Steering Group to advise the UK
2. NInotne-rEnxaectiuotnivael experie6n2c%e As at 1 April 2017 Government on life science priorities
in the context of the UK leaving the
EU, Visiting Professor to the Institute
of Global Health Innovation at
Imperial College, London, and
Global US Europe EMAP
Chancellor of the University of
73% 100% 91% 64%
Nottingham.
Key
Committee Chair N Nominations
A Audit & Risk
R Remuneration
C Corporate Responsibility
S Science83 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Emma Walmsley 47 Simon Dingemans 53 Dr Moncef Slaoui 57 Dr Patrick Vallance 56
CEO Designate Chief Financial Officer Chairman, Global Vaccines President, R&D
Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality
British British Moroccan, Belgian & American British
Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed
1 January 2017. Chief Executive 4 January 2011. Chief Financial 17 May 2006. Moncef is retiring from 1 January 2017
Officer from 1 April 2017 Officer from 1 April 2011 the Board on 31 March 2017.
Skills and experience
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Patrick joined GSK in 2006 as
Emma joined GSK in 2010 with Prior to joining GSK, Simon had Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in Head of Drug Discovery and was
responsibility for Consumer over 25 years of experience in 1988 where he engineered the subsequently appointed Senior
Healthcare, Europe and was investment banking at SG Warburg development of a robust vaccines Vice President, Medicines Discovery
subsequently appointed President and Goldman Sachs. Simon advised pipeline. He then led Worldwide and Development. He has been
of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer GSK for over a decade before his Business Development for a member of GSK’s Corporate
Healthcare. She has been a member appointment and was closely pharmaceutical products before his Executive Team since 2010
of GSK’s Corporate Executive Team involved in a number of GSK’s appointment to lead R&D in 2006. and was appointed President,
since 2011 and, in 2015, was key strategic projects. He was given overall responsibility Pharmaceuticals R&D in January
appointed CEO of GSK Consumer for GSK’s Oncology Business in 2012. Patrick joined the GSK
Healthcare, a joint venture between External appointments 2010; for GSK Vaccines in 2011; Board on 1 January 2017.
GSK and Novartis. Emma joined the Simon is Deputy Chairman of the and for all Global Franchises in 2012.
Prior to joining GSK, Patrick was a
GSK Board on 1 January 2017 and 100 Group of Finance Directors, Moncef is Chairman of the Board of
clinical academic and, as Professor
will formally succeed Sir Andrew having been Chairman from 2014 Directors of Galvani Bioelectronics,
of Medicine, led the Division of
Witty as GSK CEO when he retires to early 2017. the company launched in November
Medicine at University College
on 31 March 2017. 2016 that GSK jointly owns with
London. He has over 20 years’
Verily Life Sciences.
Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked experience of research clinical
with L’Oreal for 17 years where she Moncef has advised the US medicine, general internal medicine,
held a variety of marketing and President’s Council of Advisors cardiovascular medicine and clinical
general management roles in Paris, on Science and Technology, was a pharmacology. He was elected to
London and New York. From 2007, member of the Board of the Agency the Academy of Medical Sciences
she was based in Shanghai as for Science, Technology & Research in 1999.
General Manager, Consumer (A*STAR) until January 2011, the
Products for L’Oreal China. Emma PhRMA Foundation Board from External appointments
was a Non-Executive Director of 2008 to 2016 and the Advisory Patrick is a Non-Executive Director
Diageo plc from 1 January to 21 Committee to the Director of of Genome Research Limited and
September 2016. She holds an MA National Institutes of Health from UK Biobank.
in Classics and Modern Languages 2011 to 2016.
from Oxford University.
He has a PhD in Molecular Biology
External appointments and Immunology from Université
Libre de Bruxelles and has published
None
more than 100 scientific papers
and presentations. Prior to joining
GSK, Moncef was Professor of
Immunology at the University of
Mons, Belgium.
External appointments
Moncef is a member of the
Biotechnology Industry Organization
Board in the US. He is also an
adviser to the Qatar Foundation,
and a member of the Qatar
Biomedical Research Institute
Scientific Advisory Committee.
Moncef serves as a Non-Executive
Director for the International AIDS
Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) and is a
member of the Board of Artizan
Biosciences Inc.84 GSK Annual Report 2016
Our Board continued
Manvinder Singh (Vindi) Banga 62 Professor Sir Roy Anderson 69 Dr Vivienne Cox 57 Lynn Elsenhans 60
Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive
Non-Executive Director Director & Scientific Expert Director Director
N A R N C S R C C N A
Nationality Nationality Nationality Nationality
Indian British British American
Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed
1 September 2015 and as Senior 1 October 2007 1 July 2016 1 July 2012
Independent Non-Executive Director
from 5 May 2016 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience
Professor Sir Roy is a world- Vivienne has wide experience of Lynn has a wealth of experience
Skills and experience renowned medical scientist with business gained in the energy, of running a global business and
Prior to joining GSK, Vindi spent advanced knowledge of infectious natural resources and publishing significant knowledge of the global
33 years at Unilever plc, where his disease epidemiology, and is sectors. She also has a deep markets in which GSK operates. She
last role (amongst several senior currently Professor of Infectious understanding of regulatory and served as Chair, President and Chief
positions) was President of the Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, government relationships. She Executive Officer of Sunoco Inc.
Global Foods, Home and Personal Imperial College, London. He is worked for BP plc for 28 years, from 2009 to 2012. Prior to joining
Care businesses, and he was a a Fellow of the Royal Society, the in Britain and Continental Europe, Sunoco in 2008 as President and
member of the Unilever Executive Academy of Medical Sciences and in posts including Executive Vice Chief Executive Officer, Lynn worked
Board. Vindi sat on the Prime the Royal Statistical Society. He is President and Chief Executive of for Royal Dutch Shell, which she
Minister of India’s Council of Trade an Honorary Fellow of the Institute BP’s gas, power and renewable joined in 1980, and where she held
& Industry from 2004 to 2014, of Actuaries and a Foreign Associate business and its alternative energy a number of senior roles, including
and was on the Board of Governors Member of the National Academy unit. Vivienne was previously a Executive Vice President, Global
of the Indian Institute of Management of Medicine at the US National Non-Executive Director of BG Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
(IIM), Ahmedabad. Vindi is also the Academy of Sciences and the French Group plc and Rio Tinto plc.
recipient of the Padma Bhushan, Academy of Sciences. Professor Sir Vivienne was appointed Commander External appointments
one of India’s highest civilian Roy brings scientific expertise to the of the Order of the British Empire in Lynn is a Non-Executive Director
honours. Between 2015 and 2016, Board’s deliberations. the 2016 New Year Honours for of Baker Hughes Inc. and Flowserve
Vindi was a Non-Executive Director services to the UK Economy and Corporation, a Director of the
of Thomson Reuters Corp and a External appointments Sustainability. Texas Medical Center, and a
member of its HR committee. Professor Sir Roy is a member of Non-Executive Director of The First
the International Advisory Board External appointments Tee of Greater Houston. She is also
External appointments of Holdingham Group and he is a Vivienne is Senior Independent a Trustee of the United Way of
Vindi is a Partner at private equity member of the Science Advisory Director of Pearson plc, a Non- Greater Houston.
investment firm Clayton Dubilier Board of the Natural History Executive Director of Stena
& Rice. He is also Chairman of Museum, London. He is also a International and Chairman of the
the Supervisory Board of Mauser member of the Vaccine International Supervisory Board of Vallourec,
Group, Chairman of Kalle GmbH, Advisory Board (VACCIAB) of AJ a supplier to the energy industry.
Senior Independent Director of Pharma Holding Sdn. Bhd in She is also Lead Independent
Marks & Spencer Group plc and Malaysia, the International Director at the UK Government’s
a member of its Nominations and Alzheimer’s Consortium at Harvard Department for International
Remuneration Committees. Vindi University, Boston, and Chairman Development.
is on the Governing Board of the of the Scientific Advisory Board
Indian School of Business (ISB), (SAB) of the Netherlands Centre
Hyderabad, and is a member of the for One Health (NCOH).
Indo UK CEO Forum.
Key
Committee Chair N Nominations
A Audit & Risk
R Remuneration
C Corporate Responsibility
S Science85 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Dr Jesse Goodman 65 Judy Lewent 68 Urs Rohner 57
Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive
Director & Scientific Expert Director Director
S C A N R S R N
Nationality Nationality Nationality Other Board members
American American Swiss Sir Deryck Maughan was
Senior Independent Non-
Appointed Appointed Appointed
Executive Director and a member
1 January 2016 1 April 2011 1 January 2015 of the Nominations, Audit & Risk
and Remuneration Committees
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience
until his retirement from the
Dr Goodman previously served in Judy has extensive knowledge of the Urs has a broad range of business
Board on 5 May 2016.
senior leadership positions at the global pharmaceutical industry and and legal experience having served
US Food and Drug Administration of corporate finance, having joined as Chairman on a number of Boards, Dr Stephanie Burns was an
(FDA), including most recently as the Merck & Co in 1980 and then served most recently for Credit Suisse, Independent Non-Executive
FDA’s Chief Scientist and previously as Chief Financial Officer from 1990 a world-leading financial services Director and a member of the
as Deputy Commissioner for to 2007 when she retired. Judy was company. Prior to joining Credit Remuneration and Corporate
Science and Public Health and as previously a Non-Executive Director Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Responsibility Committees until
Director of the Center for Biologics of Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp Chairman of the Executive Board her retirement from the Board
Evaluation and Research (CBER). Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited and CEO of ProSieben and on 5 May 2016.
Dr Goodman played a leadership and certain Mundipharma ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG. This Dr Daniel Podolsky was an
role in developing the FDA’s International Limited companies followed a number of years in private Independent Non-Executive
Regulatory Science and Medical until 31 December 2014. Judy practice at major law firms in Director and a member of the
Countermeasures Initiatives and has previously served as a Non- Switzerland and the US, having been Audit & Risk and Corporate
worked collaboratively with industry, Executive Director of Dell Inc., admitted to the bars of the canton of Responsibility Committees until
academia, government and global Quaker Oats Company and Zurich in 1986 and the state of New his retirement from the Board
public health and regulatory partners Motorola Inc. York in 1990. on 5 May 2016.
to prepare for and respond to major The Board has determined that External appointments Hans Wijers was an
public health threats, including Judy has recent and relevant Urs is currently Chairman of the Independent Non-Executive
emerging infectious diseases, financial experience, and agreed Board of Credit Suisse Group Director and a member of the
disasters and terrorism. He led the that she has the appropriate AG and of the Chairman’s and Remuneration and Corporate
FDA’s response to West Nile Virus qualifications and background to be Governance Committee. He is Responsibility Committees until
and to the 2009 H1N1 influenza an audit committee financial expert. also Chairman and member of the his retirement from the Board
pandemic and served on the Senior Board of Trustees of Credit Suisse on 5 May 2016.
Leadership Team for the 2010 White External appointments
House Medical Countermeasure Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Research Institute and Credit Suisse Stacey Cartwright was an
Foundation. Urs was appointed
Review. Dr Goodman brings Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc and Independent Non-Executive
Vice-Chairman of the Governing
scientific and public health expertise Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also Director and a member of the
Board of the Swiss Bankers
to the Board’s deliberations. a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Audit & Risk Committee until
Association in 2015.
Trust and Chairperson of the Audit her retirement from the Board
External appointments Committee of Rockefeller Financial on 31 December 2016.
Dr Goodman, currently Professor of Services, a life member of the
Medicine at Georgetown University, Massachusetts Institute of
directs the Georgetown University Technology Corporation and a
Center on Medical Product Access, member of the American Academy
Safety and Stewardship of Arts and Sciences.
(COMPASS) and is an active
clinician who serves as Attending
Physician in Infectious Diseases.
He also serves as President and
Member of the Board of the United
States Pharmacopeia (USP) and as
a member of the Scientific Advisory
Board (SAB) of the Coalition for
Epidemic Preparedness Innovations
(CEPI).86 GSK Annual Report 2016
Our Corporate Executive Team
1
David Redfern Claire Thomas
2
Chief Strategy Officer Senior Vice President, Human Resources
David joined CET as Chief Strategy Officer Claire was appointed to CET as Senior Vice
in 2008 and is responsible for corporate President, Human Resources in 2008.
development and strategic planning. He
Claire joined the company in 1996 as Senior
was appointed Chairman of the Board of
Manager, Human Resources, Sales and
ViiV Healthcare Ltd. in April 2011 and a
Marketing Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before
Non-Executive Director of Aspen
becoming Director of Human Resources for
Pharmacare Ltd.
UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997. She was appointed
3
Previously, he was Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Human Resources,
Northern Europe with responsibility for GSK’s Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, and Senior Vice
pharmaceutical businesses in that region and, President, Human Resources, Pharmaceuticals
prior to that, was Senior Vice President for International in 2006.
Central and Eastern Europe. David joined
Prior to GSK, she worked for Ford Motor
GSK in 1994.
Company, holding various positions in Human
David has a Bachelor of Science degree Resources.
from Bristol University in the UK and is a
Claire has a Bachelor of Science degree in
Chartered Accountant.
Economics, Management and Industrial Relations
4 from the University of Wales.
1. Sir Andrew Witty
Chief Executive Officer
2. Emma Walmsley
CEO Designate
3. Simon Dingemans
Abbas Hussain Dan Troy
Chief Financial Officer
President, Global Pharmaceuticals Senior Vice President & General Counsel
4. Patrick Vallance
President, R&D Abbas joined CET in 2008 and was appointed Dan joined GSK and CET as Senior Vice
President, Global Pharmaceuticals in 2014, President & General Counsel in 2008.
For biographical details, see pages 82 having joined the company as President, Emerging
He was previously a Partner at the Washington
and 83. Markets & Asia Pacific in 2008. He joined the
law firm Sidley Austin LLP, where he principally
ViiV Healthcare Ltd Board in October 2009.
represented pharmaceutical companies and trade
Previously, he spent 20 years at Eli Lilly where associations on matters related to the US Food
he held positions including President, Europe. and Drug Administration (FDA) and government
He also worked for Eli Lilly in Australia, the US, regulations. Dan was formerly Chief Counsel for
India, Turkey and Germany in several roles, the FDA.
including business development, sales and
Dan holds a B.S. in Industrial and Labor Relations
marketing, and management.
from Cornell University and a J.D. from Columbia
He has a degree in Medicinal Chemistry & University School of Law. He chairs the US
Pharmacology from Loughborough University Chamber of Commerce Litigation Center.
and was born in Madras, India.
In January 2017, GSK announced Abbas’
decision to leave the company later in the year.87 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Phil Thomson Roger Connor Nick Hirons
Senior Vice President, Communications President, Global Manufacturing Senior Vice President, Global Ethics
and Government Affairs & Supply and Compliance
Phil joined CET in 2011 and was appointed Roger joined CET in 2012 and was appointed Nick was appointed to CET in 2014 as Senior
Senior Vice President, Communications and President, Global Manufacturing & Supply (GMS) Vice President, Global Ethics and Compliance,
Government Affairs in 2014. He has responsibility in 2013, after working for a year as President responsible for compliance, risk management
for Media Relations, Investor Relations, Corporate Designate, GMS. Roger joined GSK in 1998 and corporate security and investigations.
Responsibility, Internal Communications, Product from AstraZeneca and worked in a number of
Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an International
Communications, Government Affairs and GSK’s finance and manufacturing strategy roles.
Auditor. He was later Head of Audit & Assurance,
Global Brand and Community Partnerships. Prior to his current position, he was Vice
where he combined five audit functions into an
President, Office of the CEO and Corporate
He joined the company as a commercial trainee independent team with a common risk-based
Strategy, from February 2010.
in 1996, moving from pharmaceutical brand methodology. In 2013, Nick relocated to China
marketing to product communications. In 1999, He holds a degree in Mechanical and to establish a governance model for our China
he became Director of Media Relations and was Manufacturing Engineering from Queen’s business that created a consistent approach
then Director, Investor Relations from 2001 to University Belfast and a Masters in to compliance.
2004, when he returned to Corporate Media Manufacturing Leadership from Cambridge
Nick is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of
Relations as Vice President. University. He is also a Chartered Accountant.
Management Accountants.
In July 2016, he became a Co-Opted Member
of the China-Britain Business Council.
Phil earned his degree in English and History
from Durham University.
Luc Debruyne Brian McNamara
President, Global Vaccines CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare
Luc joined CET in 2016 as President, Global Brian joined CET in 2016, when he was appointed
Further information
Vaccines, a role he has held since 2013. He joined CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare. Brian joined
During the year Dr Moncef Slaoui
GSK in 1991 and worked as a commercial GSK in March 2015 as Head of Europe and
was a member of CET and stood down
strategy director in R&D, before leading the Americas for GSK Consumer Healthcare,
on 31 December 2016 (see page 83).
European Commercial Centre of Excellence in following the creation of a joint venture between
2005. In 2006, Luc became General Manager of GSK and Novartis. Previously, he was head of In January 2017, Luke Miels was appointed
the Netherlands and then in 2010 Senior Vice Novartis’s OTC division. Brian began his career President, Global Pharmaceuticals; his start
President and General Manager in Italy. In 2012, at Procter and Gamble. He is a board member of date with GSK is to be confirmed.
he was appointed Senior Vice President, Pharma the World Self-Medication Industry Association.
Europe, prior to his current role. Luc is a member
He earned an undergraduate degree in Electrical
of the International Federation of Pharmaceutical
Engineering from Union College in New York
Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) Vaccines
and an MBA in Finance from the University of
CEO Roundtable, as well as the Management
Cincinnati.
Committee of the Belgian Federation of
Enterprises.
He holds a Master’s degree in Physical Education
from University of Leuven.88 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Leadership and effectiveness
Corporate governance framework
The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities. The framework is
designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and to provide a robust platform to realise the Group’s strategy to Grow,
Deliver and Simplify. Our internal control and risk management arrangements, which are described on pages 18 to 19, and 105 to 106,
are an integral part of GSK’s governance framework.
For the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established as set out below.
Board
Chief Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Corporate Science
Executive Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee
Officer Committee
Read more on Read more on Read more on Read more on Read more on
Corporate page 97 page 112 page 94 page 108 page 81
Executive
Team See www.gsk.com See www.gsk.com See www.gsk.com See www.gsk.com See www.gsk.com
for terms of reference for terms of reference for terms of reference for terms of reference for terms of reference
2016 Board and Committee meeting attendance
Board Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Corporate Responsibility
Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum
Members Attended possible Attended possible Attended possible Attended possible Attended possible
Sir Philip Hampton 6 6 6 6
Sir Andrew Witty 6 6
Simon Dingemans 6 6
Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 6 6 4 4
Vindi Banga 6 6 6 6 5 5 5 6
Dr Vivienne Cox
Appointed on 1 July 2016 3 3 3 3
Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 6 6 6 4 4
Dr Jesse Goodman 6 6 4 4
Judy Lewent 6 6 6 6 5 5 6 6
Urs Rohner 5 6 4 5
Stacey Cartwright
Retired on 31 December 2016 5 6 5 6
Dr Stephanie Burns
Retired on 5 May 2016 3 3 2 2 1 1
Sir Deryck Maughan
Retired on 5 May 2016 2 3 2 3 2 2 2 3
Dr Daniel Podolsky
Retired on 5 May 2016 2 3 2 3 1 1
Hans Wijers
Retired on 5 May 2016 3 3 2 2 1 1
D etails of other regular attendees at Committee meetings, such as the Chairman, CEO and other Executive Directors, are set out in the reports of our Committees. These
reports are included later in the Corporate Governance Report.89 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2016 Board programme
Areas of focus Strategic priorities link
Strategy The Board’s oversight of the execution of our strategy included:
– Reports from our principal businesses, R&D, and GMS organisations
– Discussion and approval of the strategic combination with Verily Life Sciences to develop bioelectronic
medicines, resulting in the Galvani joint venture
– Holding a joint Board & CET strategy day to discuss the evolution of our strategy, external landscape
changes, competitor advantage and governance arrangements
– Reports on our pensions, insurance, tax and treasury strategies
– Review of our R&D pipeline and new products
– Review of our ViiV Healthcare joint venture
Performance During the year, the Board regularly discussed:
– Reports from the CEO, the heads of our principal businesses and R&D and GMS organisations
– The Group’s financial performance
– The annual budget and forward looking three year plan
– Progress on our Finance transformation programme to enhance our processes and service capabilities
– Brexit impacts and planning
Governance The Board undertook the following corporate governance duties:
– Received reports from Board Committees
– Approved the 2015 Annual Report
– AGM preparation
– Considered observations and actions from the internal evaluation of the Board’s performance
– Received reports on corporate governance and regulatory developments
– Training on our Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA), the new Market Abuse Regulations (MAR), and
our updated Code of Conduct
– Approved the appointment of new CEO and Directors
– Approved the appointment of new auditor with effect from 2018
Talent and succession The Head of HR briefed the Board on:
– the Talent and Leadership Development strategy
Strategy key: Grow Deliver Simplify90 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Key Board roles and responsibilities
Strong leadership I ndependent oversight and rigorous challenge
Chairman
Philip Hampton Non-Executive Directors
– Leads and manages the business of the Board – Provide a strong independent element to the Board
– Provides direction and focus – Constructively support and challenge management and
– Ensures clear structure for effective operation of the Board scrutinise their performance in meeting agreed deliverables
and its Committees – Shape proposals on strategy and management
– Sets Board agenda and ensures sufficient time is allocated to – Each has a letter of appointment setting out the terms and
promote effective debate and support sound decision making conditions of their directorship
– Ensures the Board receives precise, timely and clear – Devote such time as is necessary to the proper performance
information of their duties
– Meets with each Non-Executive Director on an annual basis – Are expected to attend all Board meetings and additional
to discuss individual contributions and performance, together meetings as required.
with training and development needs
Independence statement
– Shares peer feedback that is provided as part of the Board
evaluation process The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors who are
– Meets with all the Non-Executive Directors independently identified on pages 84 to 85, including Professor Sir Roy Anderson
of the Executive Directors with tenure of more than nine years, to demonstrate an appropriate
– Leads discussions with shareholders to whom he is degree of independence in character and judgement and to be
responsible for the Group’s performance free from any business or other relationship which could materially
– Satisfied the Financial Reporting Council’s UK Corporate interfere with the exercise of their judgement. The independence
Governance Code independence test on appointment. and commitment of those Non-Executive Directors who have served
on the Board for over six years has been subjected to a rigorous
The Chairman’s role description
is available on www.gsk.com review.
Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Sir Andrew Witty Vindi Banga
– Is responsible for the management of the business – Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted
– Develops the Group’s strategic direction for consideration intermediary for other Directors
and approval by the Board – Leads the review annually of the Chairman’s performance,
– Implements the agreed strategy canvassing views from the Non-Executive Directors collectively
– Is supported by members of the Corporate Executive Team. – Discusses the results of the Chairman’s effectiveness review
The Chief Executive Officer’s role description with the Chairman
is available on www.gsk.com – Leads the search and appointment process and
recommendation to the Board of a new Chairman
– Acts as an additional point of contact for shareholders
– In doing so, maintains an understanding of the issues and
concerns of major shareholders through briefings from the
Investor Relations team and the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director’s role
description is available on www.gsk.com
Timely support and advice
Company Secretary – Acts as a Secretary to the Board and all Board Committees
Victoria Whyte – Supports the Board and Committee Chairmen in annual agenda plan setting
– Ensures information is made available to the Board members in a timely fashion
– Facilitates the flow of information within the Board and Committees and between
Non-Executive Directors and management
– Supports the Chairman in designing and delivering Board inductions
– Coordinates ongoing business awareness and training requirements for the
Non-Executive Directors
– Undertakes internal Board and Committee evaluations at the request of the Chairman
– Advises the Directors on Board practices and procedures and corporate
governance matters
– Chairs the Group’s Disclosure Committee
– Acts as a point of contact for shareholders on corporate governance.91 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Board induction
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in individually Each new Director receives a general induction. A personalised
designing and facilitating induction programmes for new Directors. induction is then devised which is individually tailored to each new
They are designed with the purpose of orientating and familiarising Director’s background, education, experience and role.
new Directors with our industry, organisation, governance and
strategy to Grow, Deliver & Simplify. During the year, Emma Walmsley,
our CEO Designate, Dr Jesse Goodman, a new US-based Science
and Medical Expert, and Dr Vivienne Cox, a highly experienced
UK-based Non-Executive Director, were all appointed to the Board.
General Board induction
Executive Non-Executive All Directors
– Emma Walmsley – Dr Jesse Goodman – Director’s duties and
– Role of an Executive – Dr Vivienne Cox responsibilities
Director – GSK’s Corporate
– Role of a Non-Executive
– Build relationship with Governance structure
Director
Chairman and the – GSK Corporate Integrity
– GSK strategy,
Board Agreement (CIA) training
competitors and
– Fill any capability gaps – GSK’s Code of Conduct
external environment
training
– Meet CET members
– GSK’s financial
structure
Customised Executive Director induction Customised Non-Executive Director induction
Emma Walmsley Dr Jesse Goodman Dr Vivienne Cox
CEO Designate Scientific & Medical Expert
– Maximise handover opportunity with CEO – R&D and Vaccines – Briefing on US business
– Continue to build knowledge of business and external deep dives and commercial model
environment – Site visits to: Ware, – Site visits to: Ware,
– Engage broadly across the business and externally in Stevenage and Wavre Stevenage and Wavre
‘listening’ mode – Corporate Responsibility – Remuneration and
– Define her leadership brand as CEO Committee induction Corporate Responsibility
Committee inductions
– Finalise her strategy, its narrative and financial plan
– Define the culture/ways of working for the CET and the
wider GSK Group
– Legal responsibilities and duties of a CEO
Board, business awareness and training The Chairman meets with each Director annually on a one-to-one
To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and development
a greater insight and understanding of the business, they are invited requirements. The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory
to attend internal management meetings, including meetings of and governance matters through regular papers and briefings
the CET, Research Advisory Board, the Research & Development from the Company Secretary and presentations by internal and
Management Team (RDMT), the Portfolio and Discovery Investment external advisers.
Boards, the Global Pharma Operations Committee, the US
During 2016, the Board members undertook specific refresher
Commercial Leadership Team and the Risk Oversight and
training on GSK’s CIA and on the new MAR regulations and
Compliance Council (ROCC). They also meet employees
agreed to undertake training on GSK’s Code of Conduct.
informally during visits to the Group’s operations and at
receptions held around Board meetings.92 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Leadership and effectiveness continued
2016 Internal evaluation of the Board
Internally facilitated by the The Company Secretary drew
Company Secretary at the all the responses together
Chairman’s request. from the information gathering
stages of the evaluation
She prepared an online survey
process and discussed them
comprising a small number
with the Chairman.
of focused questions.
Phase one Phase two Phase three Phase four
Preparation Interviews Review Outcomes
The Company Secretary had The Company Secretary
follow-up face-to-face or prepared a Board paper for
telephone interviews with the January 2017 meeting
Board members to discuss that formed the basis of the
their responses and to invite discussions with the Board.
members to provide any Learning points/successes and
clarifications and further areas of focus for the Board
insights and perspectives on were identified and are set out
the performance of the Board. below.
Successes Areas of focus for 2017
– The CEO succession process had been a – Create more opportunities for deeper strategic
comprehensive, reflective and informative process, discussions, particularly on the evolution of the
which concluded successfully to schedule. pharmaceuticals industry, the competitive landscape,
therapy areas and GSK culture and performance.
– Work to increase the Board’s visibility and
understanding of the pipeline and R&D organisation – Identify ways to further improve the Board’s
had been appreciated. decision making.
– The creation and establishment of the Science – Further increase Board oversight of science and
Committee would further enhance the Board’s innovation in collaboration with the new Science Committee.
oversight of the Group’s R&D.
– Consider how data from the new IT systems can
– New Board members had settled in quickly and contribute to greater understanding and hence help
made immediate and positive contributions following evolve the business strategy.
comprehensive inductions.
– The Board had successfully created increased
opportunity for strategic debate.93 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2016 Board performance action points
Progress against the conclusions of the 2015 Board evaluation review, internally facilitated by our Company Secretary, is set out below.
Action points Progress/Achievements
Strategy – Assist newer Directors with additional background briefing materials Additional materials are now provided on the
ahead of debates on strategy. company’s Board portal.
– Arrange more regular discussion of medium and longer term strategy The Board agenda was compiled to include more
with fresh insights from different perspectives. opportunities to consider strategy from different
perspectives.
– Implement suggestions to further enhance the effectiveness of the The Board provided positive feedback on the
annual Board & CET strategy meetings. 2016 meetings held at the newly acquired
Siena sites.
Executive – Further increase the focus on executive succession plans and ensure The Board was well positioned to operate its
succession and the effectiveness of the disaster recovery plan. executive succession plans, that resulted in
NED refreshment appointments to the Board and CET. These are
described in more detail in the report of the
Nominations Committee on pages 94 to 96.
– Consider alternative suggestions for Non-Executive Director refreshment. New approaches to identifying potential scientific
and medical experts were utilised during 2016,
supported by external recruitment experts.
Deep dives – Consider further deep dives particularly on: The 2016 Board meeting programme was adjusted
and sites visits R&D strategy and pipeline, product launches, US pricing, joint ventures, to consider these matters during the year.
new business models and GMS.
– Consider holding one site visit to an operational site each year. The joint Board & CET strategy meetings in
September 2016 were held in Siena, Italy at the
manufacturing and R&D facilities acquired as a
result of the Novartis transaction. The Board had
the opportunity to meet employees and were able to
learn at first-hand how these facilities, people and
processes had been integrated into the wider Group.
Shareholders – Review and look to further enhance how the company communicates During the year, the Board and Audit & Risk
with shareholders. Committee continued to enhance quarterly reporting
to assist shareholders’ understanding of the
company’s performance and standing.
Board materials – Continue the drive to make Board/Committee materials more concise
and logistics and also effective in highlighting issues and concerns.
The Chairman, Committee Chairmen and the
– Aim to have less presentation time and more time for discussion and
Company Secretary focused on these issues in
debate at meetings.
the preparations for, and when chairing, meetings
– Allow for social time for Board members to get to know each other during 2016.
better given the number of new Board members.94 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Nominations Committee Report
Dear shareholder
Philip Hampton 2016 was a busy year for the Committee.
Nominations Committee
Our CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, indicated in March 2016, his intention
Chairman
to retire from the Board in early 2017, after nearly 10 years as CEO
and almost 32 years with GSK. Our principal focus for 2016 then
became the CEO succession process and related executive
management succession planning.
CEO and executive management succession
The Committee has for some years annually scrutinised the
robustness of succession planning arrangements for the Executive
Role
Directors and each executive management role. The annual review
The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board:
of Talent and Leadership Strategy has been a key and regular item of
– the structure, size and composition of the Board and
Board and Committee discussion and oversight. The overall aim of
the appointment of Directors, members to the Board
this process is for the Board and Committee to seek assurance that
Committees and the CET
there is a continuous and adequate supply of high-quality internal
– succession to the Board and the CET.
candidates to potentially step up to the Board and CET as required.
Membership
The Committee engaged Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry, who
Committee members Committee member since
specialise in the recruitment of high calibre Board directors. Using
Philip Hampton 27 January 2015 both firms ensured that the review process could be truly global
Chairman and no companies were inaccessible.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012
The Committee, with full participation of all the Non-Executive
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016
Directors, then spent time considering the future strategic direction
Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015
of the company and, with input from the executive recruitment firms,
Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 compiled a CEO role profile. The profile contained a brief of the
Urs Rohner 1 January 2017 requirements and the desired skill-set that a potential successor
Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 to 5 May 2016 to Sir Andrew would need. This brief was drafted to emphasise the
importance that the Board and Committee placed on the CEO
D etails of the Committee members’ skills and experience being a great business leader and team builder.
are given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages
The executive recruitment firms then initiated global searches
84 to 85. See page 88 for Committee member attendance
against this agreed profile across all large global pharmaceutical and
levels.
healthcare companies. This yielded a pool of internal and external
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and candidates which was reduced to a shortlist of potential candidates.
attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee meetings The firms reported regularly to the Committee as the process
may include: progressed.
Regular Attends as The shortlisted internal and external candidates then met with key
Attendees attendee required Board members first and were subjected to interviews, continuous
Chief Executive Officer ✓ assessments and reviews over an extended period. Each Non-
Head of Human Resources ✓ Executive Director then met each shortlisted candidate at least once.
Appropriate external advisers ✓ This culminated in one-to-one discussions between me and each of
our Non-Executive Directors to seek their views on the candidates.
I was very pleased that each Non-Executive Director made it clear
that they considered that the right candidate to succeed Sir Andrew
was Emma Walmsley, CEO of GSK’s Consumer Healthcare division.
The Committee then met to agree a proposal for the Board to
recommend Emma’s appointment as CEO Designate.
The recommendation received unanimous Board approval and on
20 September 2016 it was announced that Emma would join the
Board as an Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2017
and would become CEO with effect from 1 April 2017.95 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Nominations Committee Report continued
The Committee was well-positioned to appoint Emma’s successor New Non-Executive Director appointment
and Brian McNamara, Head of Americas and Europe for GSK During 2016, in addition to the search for two new Executive
Consumer Healthcare, succeeded her at the end of September Directors and a US-based SME, the Committee searched for
2016. Brian became a CET member with immediate effect. He joined another Non-Executive Director. Egon Zehnder were engaged to
GSK in March 2015 after the completion of the Novartis transaction. conduct the search, which used broad selection criteria, and
dossiers of potential Non-Executive appointees were considered by
Since 1 October, Emma has focused her attention completely
the Committee. Candidates were shortlisted for interview on merit,
on her transition into the role of GSK’s next CEO. Details of her
after assessing their relevant qualifications and time commitments.
transition and induction arrangements can be found on page 91.
After interviewing selected candidates, the Committee was pleased
During the year, the Committee also conducted a search and to recommend to the Board Dr Vivienne Cox as a Non-Executive
appointment process for a new Executive Director when Dr Moncef Director. She was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 July
Slaoui, our Chairman, Global Vaccines, indicated in June 2016 his 2016. The Board considered that her many years of international
intention to retire from the company in 2017 after over 10 years on business experience in global manufacturing organisations with
the Board and 28 years with GSK. Moncef will step down from the challenging technologies would bring fresh insights to the Board’s
Board on 31 March 2017 and will retire from the company on 30 deliberations.
June 2017.
Board appointments and retirements
The Committee recommended Dr Patrick Vallance’s appointment The ongoing refreshment of the Board has led to the following
to the Board and on 19 December the Board approved Patrick’s planned changes.
appointment. He joined the Board as an Executive Director on
1 January 2017. Director Appointment date Retirement date
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 January 2016
In addition, Luc Debruyne, our President, Global Vaccines,
since 2013, was appointed a CET member in September 2016 in Dr Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016
anticipation of Dr Slaoui’s retirement from the CET in December Emma Walmsley 1 January 2017
2016. Dr Patrick Vallance 1 January 2017
Stephanie Burns 5 May 2016
Luke Miels has been appointed President, Global Pharmaceuticals
and will join GSK and the CET later this year from AstraZeneca Sir Deryck Maughan 5 May 2016
where he was Executive Vice President of their European business. Dr Daniel Podolsky 5 May 2016
Hans Wijers 5 May 2016
Abbas Hussain, President, Global Pharmaceuticals has decided to
leave the company after serving nine years on the CET, and he has Stacey Cartwright 31 December 2016
agreed that he will leave GSK later this year. Sir Andrew Witty 31 March 2017
Dr Moncef Slaoui 31 March 2017
Enhancing the Board’s scientific capabilities
The Board’s scientific capabilities have recently been refreshed with
Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry provide recruitment consultancy
the appointment of Dr Jesse Goodman, the former Chief Scientist for
services to the Committee, in addition to recruitment and HR
the US FDA, who was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2016. He
services which they provide to the company.
succeeded Dr Daniel Podolsky, who retired as planned, after 9 years
of service at our AGM in May 2016, as our designated US-based
Scientific and Medical Expert (SME). The Committee is currently
seeking to further enhance the Board’s science capabilities by
engaging Korn Ferry to conduct a global search for a further
Non-Executive Director as an SME.
In addition, a new wholly independent Board Committee, the
Science Committee, was established in December 2016 to provide
oversight of GSK’s R&D pipeline and scientific research strategy.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the Science
Committee be chaired by Dr Jesse Goodman. Other Non-Executive
Directors appointed to the Science Committee included our
UK-based SME, Professor Sir Roy Anderson, and Judy Lewent. The
SME currently being recruited will also be appointed to the Science
Committee. In light of this new Board Committee and to ensure
effective continuity, Professor Sir Roy Anderson, who joined the
Board in 2007, has agreed to stand for re-election by shareholders
before stepping down from the Board at the 2018 AGM. The Board
has confirmed that Professor Sir Roy continues to demonstrate the
characteristics of independence in carrying out his role on the Board.96 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Leadership and effectiveness continued
Nominations Committee Report continued
Board Committee Chairman and membership changes
During the year, the Committee approved the following changes to the membership of our Board Committees.
Director Committee membership Appointment date Retirement date
Vindi Banga Nominations, Audit & Risk and Remuneration 1 January 2016
Committees member
Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Dr Jesse Goodman Corporate Responsibility Committee members 1 May 2016
Dr Vivienne Cox Corporate Responsibility Committee member 1 July 2016
Dr Jesse Goodman Science Committee Chairman 1 January 2017
Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Judy Lewent Science Committee members 1 January 2017
Dr Vivienne Cox Remuneration Committee member 1 January 2017
Urs Rohner Nominations Committee member 1 January 2017
Stephanie Burns Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility 5 May 2016
Committees member
Sir Deryck Maughan Nominations, Audit & Risk and Remuneration 5 May 2016
Committees member
Dr Daniel Podolsky Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility 5 May 2016
Committees member
Hans Wijers Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility 5 May 2016
Committees member
Stacey Cartwright Audit & Risk Committee member 31 December 2016
Board composition and diversity The representation of women in management positions at GSK is
The Committee has sought to balance the composition of the Board illustrated on page 49 as part of the gender diversity of GSK’s global
and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so workforce and alongside initiatives to promote diversity and inclusion
that it can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors throughout the organisation. We also support the engagement of
and benefit from new external perspectives and insights which executive search firms such as Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry who
more recent appointees can bring to the Board’s deliberations. have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity
and best practice.
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries
and backgrounds, including pharmaceuticals and R&D, vaccines, We have also noted the recommendation set out in the Parker
consumer products and healthcare, medical research and academia Review Committee’s report ‘Beyond One by ’21’, published in
and financial services, and have a wealth of experience of complex November 2016, that each FTSE 100 board should have least one
organisations with global reach. The majority of our Board have a director of colour by 2021 and have adjusted our diversity policy
scientific or mathematical background and are attuned to the industry accordingly to reflect this new target.
in which we operate.
Committee evaluation
We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom just as GSK The Committee’s annual evaluation was internally facilitated by the
is committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at all levels Company Secretary on behalf of the Committee Chairman, and
of the organisation. The Board and management seek to encourage supplemented by a questionnaire circulated to Committee members.
a diverse and inclusive culture throughout GSK. It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate
effectively.
A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises a
range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and It was agreed for 2017 that the Committee would seek to identify
independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge each another experienced Scientific and Medical Expert and additional
other and work as a team. This needs to be backed by a diversity of consideration would be given on an ongoing basis to performance
personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound judgement, and succession planning for the CET and top talent and GSK’s
honesty and courage. performance culture. The Committee would continue to plan for
Non-Executive Director retirements based on the evolution of
The Committee is responsible for developing measurable objectives
Group strategy.
to support the implementation of the Board’s diversity policy,
including gender, and monitoring progress towards the achievement
of these objectives. Our diversity policy is in line with Lord Davies’
new voluntary target of at least 33% female Board level
representation by 2020. We currently have 31% women on our Philip Hampton
Board and 14% on our Corporate Executive Team. Closing this Nominations Committee Chairman
gap between Board and CET gender representation and further
13 March 2017
increasing the pipeline of female direct reports to the CET is a
particular area of attention. Female pipeline development was also
a central theme of my review, together with Dame Alexander, across
the FTSE 350, which is continuing and developing the valuable work
that Lord Davies initiated in 2011.97 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Accountability Investor information
Audit & Risk Committee Report
Dear Shareholder
Judy Lewent In the following pages of this report, we aim to share insights into
Audit & Risk Committee the activities undertaken or overseen by the Audit & Risk Committee
Chairman (the Committee) during the year. The Committee has worked largely
to a recurring and structured programme of activities. I devise this
programme with the Company Secretary and agree its content with
management and the external auditors at the start of each year.
It is then adapted as appropriate as the year progresses.
Running and concluding a successful tender of the external audit
contract was a significant undertaking for the Committee, supported
Role by management, during the year. This exercise, together with the
The Committee reviews and is responsible for: Committee’s scrutiny of further enhancements and simplifications
– financial and internal reporting processes to our internal control, risk management and financial reporting
– the integrity of the financial statements, including the systems and processes, is covered below.
Annual Report and quarterly results announcements
External auditors
– the system of internal controls
Conclusion of audit tender: Last year, we advised shareholders
– identification and management of risks and external and
that the Committee was putting the external audit contract out to a
internal audit processes
competitive tender process, which the Committee initiated in July.
– initiating audit tenders, the selection and appointment
The process was concluded in December 2016 when the Board
of external auditors, their remuneration and oversight of
appointed the Committee’s preferred choice of Deloitte LLP
their work.
(Deloitte) as the company’s new auditors. Our current external
Membership auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), was not invited to
Committee members Committee member since participate in the tender due to the prevailing rules on audit firm
Judy Lewent 1 April 2011 rotation. They will continue in office during 2017. Subject to their
Chairman reappointment by shareholders at our 2017 AGM, they will retire
Vindi Banga 1 January 2016 after completing the 2017 audit.
Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 From GSK’s 2018 financial year onwards, Deloitte will be appointed
Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 to 31 December 2016 in PwC’s place, subject to shareholder approval. We wish to thank
Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 to 5 May 2016 each firm that participated in the tender for the professionalism and
commitment they demonstrated through the process.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 to 5 May 2016
A full report on the key steps, governance arrangements and outputs
D etails of the Committee members’ financial, accounting from the audit tender process is given on page 102. The Committee’s
or scientific experience and expertise are given in their judgement was that Deloitte was best placed to succeed PwC and
biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 84 to 85. See deliver a high quality audit for GSK.
page 88 for Committee member attendance levels.
The Committee is currently overseeing the transition from PwC to
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and Deloitte to ensure that:
attends all meetings. The entire Board is invited to attend the
– PwC continues to discharge its auditing responsibilities effectively
Committee meetings and other attendees include:
to the end of its time in office; and
Regular Attends as – Deloitte takes the necessary steps to ensure that it is independent
Attendee attendee required
of GSK by the time it begins to observe PwC at an appropriate
General Counsel ✓ juncture in 2017.
Financial Controller ✓
I look forward to reporting to shareholders on discharging the
Head of Audit & Assurance ✓
activities associated with this transition in GSK’s 2017 Annual
Head of Global Ethics and Compliance ✓ Report.
Chief Medical Officer ✓
Chief Product Quality Officer ✓
External auditor ✓
In accordance with the FRC’s Code, the Board has determined
that Judy Lewent has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has also agreed that Judy Lewent has the
appropriate qualifications and background to be an audit
committee financial expert as defined by the US Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002, and has determined that she is independent
within the meaning of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended.
In addition, Judy Lewent and Vindi Banga are also members
of the Remuneration Committee, which allows them to provide
input on the Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and
oversight on any risk factors relevant to remuneration matters.98 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Accountability continued
Audit & Risk Committee Report continued
The Financial Reporting Council Audit Quality Review: SEC settlement: In 2016, GSK entered into a settlement with the
The Committee’s confidence in the external auditor’s delivery of US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in relation to its
a high quality and effective audit for GSK was reinforced by the inquiry into past sales and marketing practices in China. Under this
outcome of the FRC’s Audit Quality Review team’s (the AQR) review settlement, the company has obligations to provide the SEC with
of PwC’s audit of GSK’s 2015 financial statements. The GSK audit information on the framework and evolution of our ongoing ABAC
was selected as part of the AQR’s annual inspection of the audit programme for monitoring purposes. The Committee reviews and
quality of the largest audit firms in the UK. The Committee discussed considers updates before they are provided to the SEC, as agreed
the results and outcome of the review. The AQR’s findings under the settlement.
corroborated the results of the Committee’s own independent
InfoProtect: To reflect a fast evolving landscape and its potential
evaluation of PwC, which concluded that the external auditor was
impacts on this key enterprise risk, our multi-year InfoProtect
effective. The Committee received a report from PwC detailing how
programme was refreshed in 2016. Heightened attention is being
the 2016 audit would address the small number of findings identified
paid to those areas of our business that have the highest risk
by the AQR team and was satisfied with PwC’s planned response.
exposure. Improvements have been prioritised for delivery to achieve
Competition and Markets Authority compliance statement: the greatest risk reduction and improve the maturity of our information
The Committee considers that, during 2016, the company has security and privacy processes. Our Chief Information Security
complied with the mandatory audit processes and audit committee Officer (CISO) and our CFO (who has Board-level responsibility for
responsibility provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority this enterprise risk) continue to ensure our cyber security defences
Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. This report describes the work remain strong and effective. The CFO and CISO brief the Committee
of the Committee in discharging these responsibilities. regularly on developments.
Pre-approval of non-audit services: The Committee reviewed and Enhanced governance around reporting: The Committee and Risk
discussed adapting the company’s approach to its existing non-audit Oversight & Compliance Council (ROCC) receive internal control
services policy, to comply with new requirements set out in the FRC’s and risk management reports throughout the year. These are based
revised Ethical Standards and the implementation of the EU Audit on their respective governance responsibilities within the wider
Regulation for GSK’s 2017 financial year. In particular, we agreed organisational internal risk governance framework. The efficiency
changes to our non-audit services pre-approval process in line with and quality of this upward reporting mechanism is crucial in assisting
the new restrictions on auditors supplying non-audit services to UK the Committee in properly monitoring GSK’s internal framework for
listed companies. These changes are outlined on page 104. control and risk management. During 2016, the Global Risk Office
has implemented the following Committee and ROCC reporting
Internal framework for control and risk management
improvements into business units and across our risk enterprise
developments
exposures.
This is a core discipline for the Committee. In 2016, the following
developments in the business units and across the enterprise in the The Committee reporting schedules have been improved so that risk
areas of communication, reporting, training and analytics helped management reports from the business units are presented to the
strengthen our culture of compliance and risk management. ROCC after they have been submitted to the Committee. This means
that the Committee’s feedback can be properly incorporated into
Anti Bribery And Corruption (ABAC) and Third Party Oversight
management’s deliberations at the ROCC. In addition, our business
(TPO) programmes: These are a high priority for the Committee and
units now provide six monthly updates to the ROCC that concentrate
it has overseen the following areas of progress made during the year:
on progress against their top three risk management commitments.
– ABAC Global Risk Assessment: This new programme was This simplification has helped foster a more focused discussion at
launched to significantly enhance the way our ABAC risk is the ROCC on each business unit’s risk management priorities.
identified and prioritised across the Group. Existing ABAC
To help the Committee improve its understanding of our enterprise
data has been centrally pooled by our Global Risk Office to help
risk strategies, GSK’s enterprise risk owners are encouraged to
how our ABAC risk exposure is measured. This has enabled
provide commentary on the organisation’s risk tolerance in respect
management to target risk mitigation techniques on the company’s
of the specific risk they are responsible for mitigating. In addition,
highest risk activities, business units and regions.
the development of risk performance dashboards for ABAC,
– TPO programme: This provides a standard framework which Product Quality and Research Practices, has further enhanced the
governs all third party relationships and has moved from design Committee’s ability to understand and monitor our risk exposure
to deployment phase. This supplier assessment programme levels on an ongoing basis.
operates in a large majority of our Latin America and South East
Compliance activities
Asia markets. It is applied across our range of third parties and is
Building trust by embedding our Values: Our Global Ethics &
used in particular to assess suppliers deemed by GSK to be high
Compliance (GEC) function continues to embed its ‘Living our
risk. Risk levels and corrective and preventative action tracking are
Values and Building Trust’ strategy to help motivate employees to put
now managed via an easy-to-use reporting system by our
the company’s core values at the heart of every decision they make.
employees who are enrolled in this programme.
In particular, GEC deployed enterprise-wide training for employees
During 2017, the TPO programme is expected to cover our to coincide with the release in April 2016 of GSK’s updated Code
global operations. This will ensure continued risk management of Conduct. This is at the heart of our compliance programme and
improvements in respect of our third party relationships, focuses on GSK’s core values of Patient Focus and Integrity,
embedding a basic TPO capability into our Supplier Lifecycle Respect for People and Transparency.
Management software and introducing further buying experience
simplifications.99 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Audit & Risk Committee Report continued
In addition to delivering training to our employees across the Global reporting system platforms
enterprise, GEC has also introduced the following training tools The Committee was pleased to oversee significant progress being
specifically aimed at team leaders to help reinforce values based made in moving towards more standardised, global systems which
conduct in their teams: support our end-to-end processes. Management continued to
deploy upgrades as planned, with a major system deployment
– Leader Led Discussion toolkit: This has been launched to enable
completed during the first half of 2016 to schedule and on budget.
leaders and teams to have meaningful discussions on the
The remaining deployments under this multi-year programme are
importance of GSK’s values and ‘right first time’ culture. These
being completed during 2017 and early 2018, with an increasing
discussions are informal and short in length, provide opportunities
focus on capturing the benefits that these new standardised systems
to explore GSK’s values and for leaders and their teams to think
and processes generate for GSK.
about what quality means in their part of the company’s business.
The toolkits use a combination of external events and research My role
such as academic studies around why good employees can Finally, my role as Chair of the Committee continues to be busy and
sometimes make poor decisions. varied. During the year, I had significant interactions with key senior
executives and our auditors, and attended a range of management
– Values Maturity Assessment: This is a leadership team self-
meetings, including those of the ROCC, Consumer Healthcare,
assessment tool which allows teams to assess how well values
Finance GEC and Global Manufacturing & Supply leadership teams.
are embedded into the business and establishes a values
I also led the audit tender process and met the bidding firms’ audit
improvement plan based on the outcome of the assessment.
partners and teams to familiarise myself with their qualities and
During 2016, Values Maturity Assessments (VMA) were
capabilities and to gain an impression of what it could be like to
undertaken by GEC across a third of GSK’s business units, in line
work with them.
with a values objective set by the Corporate Executive Team. This
VMA roll out is continuing in 2017 across all our business units. Along with my Board colleagues, I was pleased to visit our
manufacturing and R&D facilities in Siena, Italy that had been
GM certifications: The General Manager (GM) confirmation process
acquired as part of the Novartis transaction in 2015. We met local
across Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines has continued throughout
senior executives and employees and were able to learn at first-hand
2016, requiring GMs to confirm their adherence to GSK’s Internal
how these facilities, people and processes have been integrated into
Control Framework. A revised confirmation process was launched
the wider Group. I was also pleased to learn how GSK’s internal
in September 2016. It focused on specific risk areas, including
control and risk management practices have been translated and
TPO, Health Care Professional and government official interactions,
embedded in the business.
embedding ABAC, and other risks associated with pricing and
commercial terms. In 2016, Consumer Healthcare implemented a On a personal note I would like to acknowledge Sir Andrew’s
similar process for its GMs to confirm the operation of our internal contribution to the company. He has been a visionary leader driving
control framework for key risks and minimum controls. GSK’s values during his term as CEO and he led positive change in
established industry ways of working. I would like to wish him well in
Corporate Integrity Agreement: The Committee has oversight of
his next endeavours and I very much look forward to working with his
the company’s responsibilities under a US Corporate Integrity
successor, Emma Walmsley, when she succeeds him as CEO from
Agreement (CIA) signed with the US Department of Health and
1 April 2017.
Human Services in 2012, which is now in its final year, although
commitments with certain States regarding salesforce compensation
extend into 2019. During 2016, the Committee continued to receive
quarterly CIA compliance and assurance updates from the Head of
GEC. It also reviewed and recommended to the Board the adoption Judy Lewent
of the annual resolutions that confirm adherence to the terms of the Audit & Risk Committee Chairman
CIA for inclusion in the certification reports the company provides to
13 March 2017
the appropriate US regulatory authorities each year.
Given the success of the GM confirmation and CIA certification
processes so far and because the CIA is due to end in 2017, the
Committee is keen to retain the best practice compliance disciplines
of the CIA. As a result it is assessing GEC’s proposal to roll-out
a tailored Business Unit Confirmation that combines the principles
of these two processes. This proposed simplification is designed to
provide the Committee with consolidated assurance that our internal
control framework requirements are identified and understood, and
that any possible gaps are identified and addressed at each of our
business units.100 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Accountability continued
What the Committee did during 2016
Areas of Committee focus Items discussed Frequency
Financial reporting – Reviewed integrity of draft financial statements, appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern A
assumptions
– Considered approval process for confirming and recommending that 2015 Annual Report is fair, balanced A
and understandable
– Reviewed and recommended approval of 2015 Annual Report and Form 20-F A
– Reviewed and approved Directors’ expenses A
– Reviewed and recommended approval of quarterly and preliminary results announcements and dividends Q
– Reviewed significant issues in relation to the quarterly and preliminary results Q
– Considered evolving market practice on the Viability Statement requirements A
– Reviewed and recommended inclusion of the Viability Statement for the 2015 Annual Report P
– Reviewed accounting developments and their impacts and key accounting issues P
– Reviewed GAAP vs Non-GAAP reporting P
Global internal control – Reviewed Global Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, R&D, GMS and Consumer Healthcare business unit assurance A
& compliance reports
– Reviewed GSK’s internal control framework A
– Confirmed compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act A
– Reviewed Audit & Assurance work during 2015 and approved the planned work for 2016 A
– Undertook Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) training A
– Undertook new Market Abuse Regulation training A
– Received and renewed CIA compliance and assurance reports Q
– Reviewed reports on the Operational Excellence programme Q
– Reviewed the implementation of new systems for Group Support Functions P
– Received litigation reports and updates S
– Received ABAC investigation status reports S
External auditors – Reviewed and approved audit/non-audit expenditure incurred during 2015 A
– Considered the auditors’ report on the 2015 annual results A
– Performed evidence-based assessment of external auditors and the effectiveness of 2015 external audit A
– Considered qualifications, expertise and independence of the external auditors A
– Recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor and for the Committee to agree auditors’ remuneration A
– Approved the 2016 audit plan and audit fee proposal and set performance expectations for auditors A
– Considered initial results of 2016 audit P
– Reviewed and agreed pre-approval of budget for auditors to provide non-audit services for 2017 Q
– Undertook a competitive audit tender process and recommended to the Board two audit firms, including a S
preferred firm, to be appointed for the audit of the 2018 financial statements
Risk – Reviewed risk management framework compliance A
– Reviewed risk elements of Group treasury, pensions, risk and insurance and tax policies A
– Received status reports on following enterprise risks: ABAC, Commercialisation, Crisis and Continuity, EHSS, P
Information Protection, Management and Financial Controls and Reporting, Product Quality and Research Practices
– Received an update on integration following the Novartis transaction P
– Received terrorism risk assessment reports P
– Received update on Brexit implications P
– Received Risk Oversight Compliance Council meeting updates S
– Considered emerging risks S
Governance and – Confirmed compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code A
other matters – Discussed evaluation exercise of Committee, agreed action plan to further improve operation of Committee A
– Reviewed the Committee’s terms of reference A
– Met privately and separately with the Heads of Global Ethics & Compliance and Audit & Assurance A
– Confirmed that the Committee’s terms of reference had been adhered to during 2016 A
– Received corporate governance updates P
– Reviewed and approved the approach to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 P
– Met privately with the external auditors at the end of each meeting S
Committee Activity Key A Annually Q Quarterly P Periodically S Standing101 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Significant issues relating to the financial statements
In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the financial results contained in the 2016 Annual Report, the Committee
reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results. The Committee reviewed papers
prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues and the
judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 are set out in the following
table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate. In addition, the Committee and the external auditors have
discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the
Independent Auditors’ Report on pages 149 to 157.
Significant issues considered by the Committee
in relation to the financial statements How the issue was addressed by the Committee
Going concern basis for the preparation The Committee considered the outcome of management’s half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net
of the financial statements debt positions and the various financing facilities and options available to the Group. Following a review
of the risk and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the
going concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including returns The Committee reviewed management’s approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for
and rebates (RAR) accruals customer returns and rebates. The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was
£2.2 billion at 31 December 2016 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been
made and concurred with management’s judgements on the amounts involved. A fuller description of the
process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual
necessary is set out in ‘Critical accounting policies’ on page 76.
Provisions for legal matters, including The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external
investigations into the Group’s legal counsel, together with a number of detailed updates on investigations into the Group’s commercial
commercial practices practices. Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary
in respect of potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to
determine if a provision was necessary, or its amount. At 31 December 2016, the provision for legal matters
was £0.3 billion, as set out in Note 29 to the financial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with
management’s judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required. At 31 December 2016, the
Group’s balance sheet included a tax payable liability of £1.3 billion.
Impairments of intangible assets The Committee reviewed management’s process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible
assets for potential impairment. The Committee accepted management’s judgements on the intangible
assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of £29 million in 2016. See
Note 19 to the financial statements, ‘Other intangible assets’ for more details.
Valuation of contingent consideration The Committee considered management’s judgement that following the further improved sales
in relation to ViiV Healthcare performance of Tivicay and Triumeq and the significant weakening of Sterling in the latter part of the year,
it was necessary to increase the liability to pay contingent consideration for the acquisition of the former
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. At 31 December 2016, the Group’s balance sheet included a
contingent consideration liability of £5.3 billion in relation to ViiV Healthcare. See Note 39 to the financial
statements, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’ for more details.
Consumer Healthcare put option The Committee considered management’s judgement on the valuation of the liability recognised in respect
of Novartis’ put option over its shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture. This included a
review of the unwinding impact of the discounting of the liability and the increase in the liability caused
by the significant weakening of Sterling in the latter part of the year.
ViiV Healthcare put options The Committee considered the amendments to the ViiV Healthcare Shareholders’ Agreement made during
the year which resulted in the recognition of the put options held by Shionogi and Pfizer in Q1 2016 and
the subsequent de-recognition of the Shionogi put option in Q4 2016. The Committee reviewed and
agreed the accounting for the put options and concurred with management’s judgement on the valuation
of the Pfizer put option of £1,319 million at 31 December 2016.102 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Accountability continued
Audit tendering
PwC has been the auditor of the company and the Group since the After a detailed market assessment, a number of audit firms,
inception of each in 2000. Their performance has been reviewed including some firms outside the Big Four, were approached to
annually and audit partner rotation requirements have been observed. participate in this process. Judy Lewent then made the final pre-
selection of Audit Lead Partners before the Request for Proposal
As indicated in last year’s Annual Report, GSK decided to undertake
and data room were issued and opened to the bidding firms in July
an external audit tender in 2016 with a view to replacing PwC from our
2016. Site meetings took place at GSK House over three days in
2018 financial year onwards. This was done in the best interests of our
September 2016, which was an opportunity for our finance and
shareholders and to comply with the audit firm rotation requirements.
functional leaders to meet with the bidding firms’ teams face-to-face.
A robust governance structure was implemented, headed by the
These meetings, which Judy Lewent oversaw with her ESC
Audit & Risk Committee (ARC), to manage, support and deliver
colleagues, were a means of discussing GSK’s audit requirements
a successful audit tender process.
with each firm to help them develop their proposals, and to evaluate
Judy Lewent chaired the Executive Steering Committee (ESC), which their technical knowledge, strengths and weaknesses and get a feel
has overseen the audit tender process, evaluated the audit firms and of what it could be like to work with them. Feedback from GSK’s
liaised with the ARC. The other members of the ESC were the CFO, participants was discussed with the Committee and shared with the
Group Financial Controller and Company Secretary. The Group audit partners prior to the submission of their audit tender proposals
Financial Controller chaired the Operations Steering Committee, in October 2016.
which was made up of finance heads, and coordinated the audit
The bidding firms’ proposals were subject to detailed evaluation
tender process and a cross-functional Planning Team has provided
with key areas to probe identified for discussion with the audit
day-to-day support and advice. These levels of governance and their
partners and their teams at their oral presentations to the Committee
purpose are illustrated in last year’s Annual Report on page 92.
and other GSK attendees that took place in November 2016. All
The key objective of the ARC was to deliver a fair, transparent and information from the evaluation stages of the process – site meetings,
successful audit contract tender process with minimum disruption written proposal submissions and oral presentations – were shared
to the business. It endorsed weighted selection criteria and with and discussed by the ARC at the conclusion of the process.
evaluation methodology based on GSK’s expectations for the This enabled the ARC to recommend to the Board the appointment
external auditors. These were equally divided into Audit Quality of Deloitte as the preferred new auditor from two shortlisted bidding
and Service and Audit Team Capability and Competence. firms, a recommendation which the Board subsequently endorsed.
In addition, five critical success factors were prioritised and guided GSK has now entered the transition phase of the process leading
the Committee and the Board in making their final recommendation up to Deloitte taking on the external audit contract with effect from
and decision which comprised: 1 January 2018 and an update on these activities will be disclosed
– Audit Approach and Strategy; in our 2017 Annual Report.
– High Quality Independent Audit;
– Effective Partnership;
– Risk in Transitioning Auditors ‘in’ and ‘out’; and
– Value for Money
2016 External Audit Tender Process
Governance oversight and key steps
Pre-Tender Evaluation Decision making
Key steps
Invitation to RFP issued Site Written Oral ARC Board
Participate and and Data Meetings Proposals Presentations Recommendation Decision
Interview of Lead Room Evaluation to ARC Panel
Partners Opened
May – July September October November December
Governance
ARC Chair, Executive Executive ARC, Executive ARC and ARC Board
CFO and and Operations and Operations and Operations Executive
Group Financial Steering Co Steering Co Steering Co Steering Co
Controller
Outputs
Short listing and Knowledge Initial feedback Proposal Debrief and Recommended Successful firm
pre-selection building by firms shared with Lead Evaluation and Final Evaluation two firms for appointed with
of Lead Partners Partners as input ‘Exam Questions’ of each firm appointment, with effect from 1
to development For Oral a preference January 2018
of their proposals Presentations expressed for
one firm103 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Auditors’ appointment
Ongoing effectiveness and quality of external audit process
The Committee is committed to ensuring on an ongoing basis that GSK receives a high quality and effective audit. In evaluating the
effectiveness of the audit process prior to making a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditor, the Committee
reviews the effectiveness of their performance against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, at the beginning of
each year’s audit.
The activities the Committee typically undertakes each year to satisfy itself of external audit quality and effectiveness, together with
their timelines, are set out below.
Auditor appointment Auditor expectations Formal auditor appointment Committee evaluation
process setting and audit planning and budget setting
Matters addressed: Matters addressed: Matters addressed: Matters addressed:
– review effectiveness of external – agree the performance – shareholders vote at AGM on – review feedback from Committee
auditor against expectations set expectations of the auditor resolutions to appoint auditor members independently as part
in previous year for the upcoming audit and determine their remuneration of annual Committee evaluation
– review auditor’s independence, – review and agree audit plan covering:
appropriate level of qualifications, for upcoming audit – relationship with auditor
expertise and resources – consider auditor’s quality control – quality of insights they provide
– consider whether the auditor procedures Committee on their work
exhibited appropriate level – agree and set statutory audit fee – whether they have sufficient
of challenge/scepticism in – receive management feedback access to auditor without
their work on prior year’s audit process management
– consider whether to initiate or through survey covering: – pre-approve budget for non-audit
defer an audit contract tender – robustness of audit process services (ideally below 50% of
– once satisfied, recommend to statutory audit fee) for following
– quality of delivery, people
the Board auditor re-appointment year
and service
at next AGM
January March May December
The detailed criteria the Committee uses for judging the effectiveness of the external auditor and their overriding responsibility to deliver
a smooth running, thorough and efficiently executed audit are set out below:
Performance expectations for GSK’s external auditor
Specific auditor – Discuss approach and areas of focus in advance with early engagement on understanding the implications of GSK’s new operating model
responsibilities
– Ensure Sarbanes-Oxley scope and additional procedures are discussed and endorsed by management and communicated on a timely
basis within GSK and PwC
– Avoid surprises through timely reporting of issues at all levels within the Group
– Ensure there is clarity of roles and responsibilities between the auditor and local management
– Respond to any issues raised by management on a timely basis
– Meet agreed deadlines
– Provide continuity and succession planning of key employees of the auditor
– Provide sufficient time for management to consider draft auditor reports and respond to requests and queries
– Employ consistent communication between local and central audit teams.
Wider auditor – Provide up-to-date advice on the new Viability statement requirement
responsibilities
– Provide up-to-date knowledge of technical and governance issues, including evolving market practice on the Viability statement requirements
– Serve as an industry resource; communicating best practice and industry trends in reporting and integrated reporting
– Adhere to all independence policies (including GSK’s policies, the Financial Reporting Council’s ISA 240 and applicable Securities
and Exchange Commission standards)
– Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reflects local risks and materiality
– Liaise with GSK’s Audit & Assurance team to avoid duplication of work and Global Ethics and Compliance team to ensure common
understanding of audit outcomes
– Provide consistency of advice at all levels of the organisation
– Ultimately provide a high quality service to the Board, be scrupulous in their scrutiny of the Group and act with utmost integrity.104 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Accountability continued
Non-audit services
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the Prohibitions: GSK’s policy has been updated so that the ‘black list’
external auditor for the provision of certain services such as legal, of prohibited non-audit services in the new regulations are applied
actuarial, internal audit outsourcing or financial information systems across the Group for GSK’s 2017 financial year onwards. This is
design. Where the external auditor is permitted to provide non-audit subject to those exceptions outside the EU that the Committee can
services (such as audit-related, tax and other services), the approve.
Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are
Pre-approval: The FRC’s new guidance for audit committees restricts
safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the Committee
the category-wide pre-approval process in GSK’s policy from 2017.
for such services. There were no contractual or similar obligations
This policy has been updated so that all non-audit services:
restricting the Group’s choice of external auditor.
– over £50,000 are pre-approved by the Committee Chairman
All non-audit services over £50,000 are put out to competitive
and CFO as delegated by the Committee;
tender with financial service providers other than the external auditor,
in line with the Group’s procurement process, unless the skills and – between £25,000 and £50,000 are pre-approved by the
experience of the external auditor make them the only suitable Group Financial Controller; and
supplier of the non-audit service under consideration. In this case, a – under £25,000 are approved by a designate of the Group
request for proposal is submitted by the relevant CET member to the Financial Controller.
CFO for approval. Non-audit services spending is monitored by the
Fees paid to the company’s auditor and its associates are set
Committee on a quarterly basis and discussed with the Committee
out below. Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial
Chairman.
statements, ‘Operating profit’.
The following policy guidelines on engaging the external auditor
Where possible, other accounting firms are engaged to undertake
to provide non-audit services are observed:
non-audit services.
– ascertaining that the skills and experience of the external
auditor make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services;
– ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity Audit/non-audit services three year comparison graph (£m)
and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or
compromised; and 40
– ensuring that the total fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual
30
audit fee, except in special circumstances where there would be 8.0
a clear advantage in the company’s auditor undertaking such 20 26.6
20.1 20.1
additional work.
10 8.6 8.6
This policy, which has been maintained for a number of years by the
Committee, was reviewed in December 2016 for compliance with 5.3 5.3 3.5
0
the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC’s) revised Ethical Standards 2014 2015 2016
and the EU Audit Regulation (new regulations). The following three Audit and assurance services
key policy guidelines were considered by the Committee as part of The fee for audit and assurance services in 2015 included £8.0 million arising
its review: from the Novartis transaction and the subsequent increase in complexity of the
Group. Approximately half of this is expected to be recurring
Fee cap: GSK’s existing non-audit services fees cap of 50% of the Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and treasury-related
annual audit fee in GSK’s policy is more stringent than the FRC’s services
new fees cap set at 70% of the average of the audit fees for the Services related to the Novartis transaction
preceding three year period. GSK’s existing policy cap of 50% has
been retained.
Fair, balanced and understandable assessment
One of the key compliance requirements of a group’s financial Committee evaluation
statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and The Committee’s annual evaluation was internally facilitated by
understandable. The coordination and review of Group-wide the Company Secretary, and supplemented by a questionnaire
contributions into the Annual Report follows a well established circulated to Committee members on behalf of the Committee
and documented process, which is performed in parallel with Chairman. It was concluded that the Committee continued to
the formal process undertaken by the external auditor. operate effectively. In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s
deliberations the following improvement points were agreed:
The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by
management in the preparation of GSK’s 2016 Annual Report The Committee would focus on ways to further improve the
to ensure that it met the requirements of the FRC’s Code. transparency of the company’s reporting to reflect best practice.
This enabled the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm
The Committee considered its ways of working and agreed
that GSK’s 2016 Annual Report taken as a whole is fair,
enhancements to reflect the Committee’s changing agenda.
balanced and understandable.
The Committee asked management to continue to improve the
Code of Conduct and reporting lines
crispness of reports it received.
We also have a number of well established policies, including
a Code of Conduct, which is available on the governance section The Committee was keen to continue to receive regular updates on
of our website, and confidential ‘Speak Up’ reporting lines for cyber security and to understand how data analytics and technology
the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct. An updated could help to monitor employee and supplier behaviour against the
version of the Code of Conduct was published in April 2016. company’s values.105 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Internal control framework
The Board recognises its obligation to present a fair, balanced To ensure effective governance and promote an ethical culture,
and understandable assessment of GSK’s current position and the Group has in place the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council
prospects. The Board is accountable for evaluating and approving (ROCC). This team of senior leaders is authorised by the Board to
the effectiveness of the internal controls, including financial, assist the Audit & Risk Committee (the Committee) in overseeing
operational and compliance controls, and risk management risk management and internal control activities. It also provides the
processes operated by the Group. business units with a framework for risk management and upward
escalation of significant risks. Each business unit has a risk board
The Internal Control Framework (the Framework) is the means by
structure which reports to the ROCC. The business unit Risk
which the Group ensures compliance with laws and regulations, the
Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) are responsible
reliability of financial reporting and comprehensive risk management.
for promoting the local ‘tone from the top’ and risk culture, as well
The Framework supports the continuous process of the Board’s
as ensuring effective oversight of internal controls and risk
identification, evaluation and management of the Group’s Principal
management processes.
Risks, as required by the Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC’s) UK
Corporate Governance Code (UK Code), and is designed to Each Principal Risk has an assigned risk owner who is a member
manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of not achieving business of senior management. The risk owner is responsible for reporting
objectives. on the risk management strategy for their respective Principal Risk
to the ROCC and the Committee at least once every two years.
A fit for purpose Framework, in conjunction with our values and
‘Speak Up’ processes, ensures that the risks associated with our The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by the Global Ethics and
business activities are actively and effectively controlled in line with Compliance division (GEC), which is responsible for advancing risk
the agreed risk appetite. We believe the Framework provides management and the development of practices that drive compliance
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material with policies and support risk-based decision making. GEC actively
misstatement or loss. promotes ethical behaviours through enabling all members of the
organisation to operate in accordance with our values, and to comply
with applicable laws and regulations.
Enterprise oversight
Audit & Assurance
Assurance ness
Monitoring
DiscB
i
Eu
p nl
fs ii
onL
rn
i
e
cne ees
a
s
mn
m
em
da
nna tan ga eg Im ne dm e
i B
n
v
Re iAt dn
i
ua
ss
ut c
s
aka sc lec o ac
s
icu no
s
cnu
m
ot en a ub et
n
sa i
n
tlb ait
st
bi yli it
l
w iy
ty
itw h i t ch
&
o
mc CWo
op
rm
nili ta
ttp
ren
ol
nc
li sa
e
Sn tc
a
ne
d a rd s
I n d
e p e n d e n t B In d e p e n d e
nt e d n e p e d n I
usi
B tn e d n e p e
d
nI
o t P ro b le m seR s p o n di n g
MoM na in toa rg ine
gmA ec nt tiv i t i e Cs
omm u
nication Training gnirotinoM
sseu
nis
ecnarussn
At
GSK values106 GSK Annual Report 2016
The Audit & Assurance division (A&A), in line with an agreed The Board’s review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries
assurance plan, provides independent assurance to senior and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint
management and the Board on how risk is being managed across ventures or other investments, although it considers the risk of the
the Group. This assurance helps senior management and the Board company’s participation in these activities. There are established
to meet their oversight and advisory responsibilities in fulfilling the procedures and controls in place to identify entities whose results
Group’s strategic objectives and building trust with patients and must be consolidated with the Group’s results.
other stakeholders. A&A has a dual reporting line into the Chief
We believe the process followed by the Board, through the
Financial Officer and the Committee.
Committee, in reviewing regularly the system of internal controls
The Committee receives regular reports from business units, and risk management processes is in accordance with the Guidance
Principal Risk owners, GEC and A&A on areas of significant risk on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and
to the Group and on related internal controls. These reports provide Business Reporting issued by the FRC.
an assessment on the internal control environment within each
A review of the Group’s risk management approach is further
Principal Risk area, including enhancements to strengthen the
discussed in the ‘How we manage risk’ section of the Strategic
control environment. Following the consideration of these reports,
report on pages 18 to 19. Our management of each Principal Risk
the Committee concludes on the effectiveness of the control
is explained in ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 253 to
environment and reports to the Board annually.
262. The Group’s viability is discussed in the Group financial review
In accordance with the FRC’s UK Code provisions, the Board, section of the Strategic report on page 56.
through the authority delegated to the Committee, has conducted
a robust assessment of the Group’s Principal Risks. This includes
the consideration of the nature and extent of risk it is willing to take in
achieving the Group’s strategic objectives. The Board, through the
Committee, has maintained oversight to ensure the effectiveness of
the internal control environment and risk management processes in
operation across the Group for the whole year, and up to the date of
the approval of this Annual Report.
Governance structure of risk management
gnirotinom
rof
ytilibatnuoccA
gnitnemelpmi
rof
ytilibisnopseR
Corporate Governance continued
Accountability continued
Internal control framework continued
Board of Directors Responsible for our system of corporate governance, strategy,
risk management and financial performance
Audit & Risk Committee – Responsible for reviewing and approving the adequacy and effectiveness
of our risk management and internal controls
Corporate Executive Team Supports the CEO in managing our business and activities
Risk Oversight and – Authorised by the Board to assist the Audit & Risk Committee in overseeing
Compliance Council the risk management and internal control activities of the Group
Business units Responsible for our system of corporate governance, strategy,
risk management and financial performance
Risk Management and – Ensure that appropriate internal controls for effective risk management
Compliance Boards are implemented
– Complemented by Country Executive Risk Boards to ensure a consistent
approach to risk management across local geography level107 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Corporate Governance continued
Financial statements
Relations with shareholders
Investor information
Engagement activities
We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regular
communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities. Governance and remuneration meetings
We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis. The annual
results are included in our Annual Report. All shareholders receive A cornerstone of our investor calendar is the annual meetings
an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual Report and that we hold with our top 30 shareholders, key investment
Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available on our website. industry bodies and influential proxy advisory firms to discuss
corporate governance and remuneration matters. These
During the year, Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans gave
sessions in December 2016, which were attended by the
presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the media
Chairman, our SID, and our Committee Chairs, covered
on the full year results, which are also available via webcast and
a broad range of governance issues and were held morning
teleconference. After the first, second and third quarter results,
and afternoon to allow UK and overseas investors a
we hold webcast teleconferences for the same audience.
convenient opportunity to participate in the discussions.
Our results are available on our website.
Philip Hampton, the Chairman, shared updates on key areas
Our Investor Relations (IR) department, with offices in London and
of focus for the Board including:
Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with investors.
The CEO, CFO and the Chairman maintain an active dialogue with – oversight of management’s execution of strategy and
institutional shareholders on performance, plans and objectives performance;
through a programme of regular meetings. During the year they held – R&D delivery and the assessment of the pipeline;
over 24 individual meetings with investors and they have also hosted
– CEO and executive team succession, including CEO
approximately 13 group meetings with investors and potential
transition activities; and
investors.
– the wider evolution and refreshment of the Board.
The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications
on corporate governance matters. We also have a small central Urs Rohner, our Remuneration Committee Chairman, took
Corporate Responsibility (CR) team which coordinates strategy, the opportunity to discuss progress with the Remuneration
policy development and reporting specifically with respect to CR Committee’s review of executive remuneration ahead of
matters. Meanwhile, the IR department communicates with socially our Remuneration policy vote at our AGM in May 2017.
responsible investors and other stakeholders. In addition, Judy Lewent, who chairs our Audit & Risk
Committee, and Lynn Elsenhans, who chairs our Corporate
The Chairman also meets regularly with institutional shareholders to
Responsibility Committee, provided an overview of the work
hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance, and
of their respective committees.
communicates their views to the other members of the Board.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director (SID) and all the Finally, Vindi Banga, our SID, provided his insights and
Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders. perspectives into the Board’s culture and dynamics, together
with his impressions of GSK’s senior team, its people and
businesses.
Listening to the views of our shareholders and receiving their
feedback at and after these sessions held in the run up to the
corporate reporting and AGM season helps us to shape key
areas of our corporate governance and remuneration
disclosures.
Annual General Meeting
All shareholders are invited to attend our Annual General
Meeting which this year, like last, will be held in May at the
QEII Centre, London. It provides an opportunity to put
questions to our Board and the Chairmen of each of our
Board Committees during the formal AGM proceedings,
while providing shareholders the chance to meet informally
with our Board directors who will make themselves available
before and after the meeting.108 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report
Dear Shareholder
Lynn Elsenhans The Committee acts as custodian of the policies and practices
Corporate Responsibility that define and safeguard the reputation of the company and as
Committee Chairman Chair of the Committee I continue, together with my fellow
Committee members, to challenge and shape the company’s
responsible business agenda.
The Committee members bring a wide range of experience and
insight from across different sectors to provide oversight of the
company’s responsible business opportunities and risks. During
the year, long serving Committee members Dr Stephanie Burns
Role and Dr Daniel Podolsky stood down from the Committee when they
The Committee reviews: retired from the Board in May. Hans Wijers, who had served on the
– external issues that have the potential for serious impact Committee for three years, also stood down at the same time when
upon GSK’s business he retired from the Board. We have greatly appreciated the
– reputation management knowledge and insights they have brought to the work of the
– annual governance oversight of GSK’s responsible business Committee in that time.
commitments
We are pleased to welcome Professor Sir Roy Anderson,
Membership Dr Jesse Goodman and Dr Vivienne Cox as new members of the
Committee. Roy and Jesse, as world-renowned medical scientists
Committee members Committee member since
and researchers, have helped to maintain a continuity of scientific
Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012
advice to the Committee’s deliberations, while Vivienne brings a
Chairman
deep knowledge of sustainable business practices developed over
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 May 2016
many years of service, predominantly in the energy and natural
Dr Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016
resources sectors.
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 May 2016
The work of the Committee has this year again focused on issues
Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 until 5 May 2016
that are material to GSK’s mission, strategy and values. Our
Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 until 5 May 2016
discussions have included exploring how the company seeks to
Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 until 5 May 2016
balance the need for a return on investment in innovation with the
need to price its products appropriately to drive access for a broad
S ee page 88 for Committee member attendance levels.
range of patients. In addition, we have considered the many ways
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and in which GSK seeks to operate with transparency and integrity –
attends all meetings. Other attendees at Committee meetings from its approach to R&D, to its commercial selling model and
may include: relationships with third parties.
Regular Attends as This year we have continued to enjoy positive engagement with
Attendee attendee required
investors on our Responsible Business approach and performance,
Chief Executive Officer ✓ with a particular focus on how these are integrated into the Group’s
Company Chairman ✓ business model and strategy to help enhance investment value,
Chairman, Global Vaccines ✓ create business opportunities and mitigate risk, as well as create
General Counsel ✓ broader social and environmental value.
Head of Communications & Government Affairs ✓
Head of Pharmaceuticals ✓
Lynn Elsenhans
Head of Pharmaceuticals R&D ✓ Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman
Head of Human Resources ✓
Head of External & Market Communication ✓ 13 March 2017
Head of Global Corporate Responsibility ✓
Other Executives ✓
Independent external corporate
responsibility adviser ✓
To augment our engagement with stakeholder opinion, in May
2013, Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external
adviser to the Committee, a position that she had previously held
from March 2009 to July 2011. Ms Tickell has extensive experience
in the pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems
productivity, sustainability in energy supply and distribution,
climate change policy and short-termism in financial markets.
She is the co-founder and Director of Meteos, from where she
directs the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better
societal and shareholder value. She holds a number of other
board and advisory roles.
Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided
independent advice and guidance on corporate and social
responsibility matters to both the Chairman and the CEO.109 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report continued
Main responsibilities – Our people: Enabling our people to thrive and develop as
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from individuals to deliver our mission.
members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress in
– Our planet: Growing our business while reducing our
meeting our Responsible Business Commitments within four areas of
environmental impact across the value chain.
focus is reviewed on an annual basis:
In addition, at each meeting the Committee considers possible
– Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health needs;
emerging issues that may have a bearing on the company’s
improving access to our products, irrespective of where people
reputation and interaction with its stakeholders. The Committee
live or their ability to pay; and controlling or eliminating diseases
also reviews and approves the Responsible Business Supplement
affecting the world’s most vulnerable people.
which is available for reference on www.gsk.com/responsibility.
– Our behaviour: Putting the interests of patients and consumers
first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by
robust policies and strong compliance processes.
Work of the Committee during 2016
During 2016, the Committee focused primarily on the matters set out below:
Areas of Committee focus Items discussed
Health for all – Flexible and open R&D approach for diseases of the developing world and other areas of great medical need, such as
antibiotics and dementia
– GSK’s approach to pricing, in particular how to balance returns for investment in innovation alongside the need to support
access to medicines
– Vaccines strategy to support global public health priorities, including pricing models, Malaria vaccine and Ebola response
Our behaviour – Changes to how GSK engages with healthcare professionals
– Global incentive compensation program and selling competency model
– Further embedding values-based decision making in the organisation, including training and compliance
– Progress on work to align third parties with GSK’s standards and expectations
– Conduct and public disclosure of clinical research, transparency of detailed data behind trial results and patient safety
– Replacement, refinement and reduction in use of animals in research and development
Our people – Organisational change and employee relations
– Inclusion and diversity
– Leadership, development and approach to performance management
– Employee health, safety and wellbeing
– Insights from the staff survey
Our planet – Environmental performance across carbon, water and waste impacts
Committee evaluation
The Committee’s annual evaluation was internally facilitated by the Company Secretary, and supplemented by a questionnaire circulated
to Committee members and the Committee’s adviser on behalf of the Committee Chairman. It was concluded that the Committee continued
to operate effectively. In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s deliberations the following points were agreed:
The Committee’s programme and meeting agendas would be devised to ensure additional time to allow fuller discussion of issues.
Consideration would be given to monitor the Group’s CR work using a scorecard approach.
Directors
Our Directors’ powers are determined by UK legislation and our A Director may cease to be a Director if he or she:
Articles of Association, which contain rules about the appointment
– becomes bankrupt
and replacement of Directors. They provide that Directors may be
appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution – ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or
of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director the Articles
appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following his or her – suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves
appointment. that he or she shall cease to be a Director
Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject – has missed Directors’ meetings for a continuous period of six
to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if they months without permission and the Board resolves that he or
have held office for a continuous period of nine years or more. she shall cease to be a Director
However, the Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors who wish to
– is prohibited from being a Director by law
continue as members of the Board should seek re-election annually
in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code. – resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer
– is required to resign by the Board.110 GSK Annual Report 2016
Corporate Governance continued
Directors continued
Directors’ conflicts of interest Directors’ Report
All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors’
situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December
of interest or possible conflict with the company. Our Articles provide 2016 comprises pages 79 to 110 of the Corporate Governance
a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts. Report, the Directors’ statements of responsibilities on pages
148 and 232 and pages 253 to 282 of Investor Information. The
The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board
Strategic report sets out those matters required to be disclosed
to grant and regularly review any potential or actual conflict
in the Directors’ Report which are considered to be of strategic
authorisations, which are recorded by the Company Secretary
importance to the company, as follows:
and noted by the Board. Directors are not counted in the quorum
for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conflicts. – risk management objectives and policies (pages 18, 19
and 77 to 78)
On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing
the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conflicts that – likely future developments of the company (throughout the
may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may Strategic report)
affect an authorisation previously given. Even when provided with
– research and development activities (pages 20 to 39)
authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory duty
to promote the success of the company. If an actual conflict arises – diversity and inclusion (page 49)
post-authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the Director – provision of information to, and consultation with, employees
from receipt of the relevant information and participation in the (page 48)
debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort,
– carbon emissions (page 50)
require the Director to resign.
The following information is also incorporated into the
The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential
Directors’ Report:
conflict authorisations in January 2017 and reported to the Board
that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the Location in Annual Report
process for authorisation continues to operate effectively. Except
Interest capitalised Financial statements,
as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, ‘Related party
Notes 17 and 19
transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no Director
Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 52
or Person Closely Associated had any material interest in any
contract of significance with a Group company. Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report
Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable
Independent advice
Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable
The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take
independent legal and/or financial advice at the company’s expense Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
where they deem it necessary. Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable
by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking
Indemnification of Directors
Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the
by a listed subsidiary
Companies Act 2006) are in force for the benefit of Directors and
Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable
former Directors who held office during 2016 and up to the signing
shareholder
of the Annual Report.
Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements,
Change of control and essential contracts Notes 15 and 43
We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements,
are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively, Notes 15 and 43
nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable
effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following
a takeover bid. We do not have agreements with any Director that The Directors’ Report has been drawn up and presented in
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and
resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the company’s the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall
share plans may cause options and awards granted under such be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
plans to vest on a takeover. Details of the termination provisions in The Directors’ Report was approved by the Board of Directors on
the company’s framework for contracts for Executive Directors are 13 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by:
given in the full version of the company’s 2014 Remuneration policy
report which is available at www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
Philip Hampton
Chairman
13 March 2017111 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Remuneration
In this section
Chairman’s annual statement 112
Annual report on remuneration 115
2017 Remuneration policy summary 137
2017 Remuneration policy report 138112 GSK Annual Report 2016
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement
Dear Shareholder Remuneration outcomes for 2016
On behalf of the Board of Directors, All awards in relation to 2016 were made in
I am pleased to present to you our accordance with the Remuneration policy
Remuneration report for 2016. This approved by shareholders in May 2014. The
includes my annual statement, our Annual key decisions made by the Remuneration
report on remuneration, a summary of our Committee (the Committee) were as follows:
2017 remuneration policy and the 2017
– The bonus outcomes for the Executive
Remuneration policy report, which
Directors were determined by reference
provides full details of the new policy.
to performance against the agreed
The Annual report on remuneration and financial measures, as well as the
In developing our new this annual statement will be subject to Committee’s assessment of their
an advisory vote at the Annual General individual levels of performance. GSK
Remuneration policy we
Meeting (AGM) on 4 May 2017. The achieved performance in excess of the
have spent considerable Remuneration policy report will be relevant financial targets for the year. In
subject to a binding vote. conjunction with assessments of individual
time listening to performance, this has resulted in bonus
Context for Executive remuneration
payments being made above target, but
shareholders. The at GSK
below maximum opportunities. Further
2016 has seen GSK perform strongly
proposed approach details of the bonus outcomes for the year
with good sales growth across our
are provided on page 119, including
provides better Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer
enhanced disclosure of the bonus targets
Healthcare businesses, excellent new
alignment, reduced product momentum, disciplined cost control for the year and details of the Individual
Performance Multipliers (IPMs) that have
and further pipeline progress. Our results
maximum pay levels been applied for each Executive Director.
against our key financial measures were
and greater simplicity. above target, with core earnings per share – Vesting of the 2014 Performance Share
growth being at the top end of our guidance. Plan (PSP) awards and the matching
In addition, Total Shareholder Return awards under the Deferred Annual Bonus
(TSR) growth of 22% was achieved which Plan (DABP) were based on the agreed
outperformed the FTSE 100 index over measures of relative TSR, adjusted
the year. free cash flow and R&D new product
performance, each with an equal
weighting. Performance was measured
over the three years to 31 December
2016. The threshold targets for the
TSR and cash flow measures were not
met, but the maximum R&D target was
achieved, resulting in an overall vesting
level of 33.3%. Further details of the
vesting outcome for the 2014 PSP and
DABP matching awards are provided
on page 121.113 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Review of Remuneration policy In finalising the proposals and responding Changes to the annual bonus structure
During 2016, the Committee reviewed to a number of points raised during the for 2017
the Remuneration policy with the objective shareholder consultation, the Committee As part of the Remuneration policy review,
of maintaining alignment with strategic were particularly thoughtful about the the Committee decided to simplify the
goals and further aligning the policy with quantum of the incentives and about how structure of the annual bonus. The Individual
best practice. The revised Remuneration the new policy should be implemented for Performance Multiplier has been removed
policy is designed to: Emma Walmsley in 2017. Full details of and from 2017, the annual bonus will operate
the final changes to the policy are set out on an additive basis. 70% of the bonus
– Drive the success of the company and
in the Remuneration policy report on pages opportunity will be subject to a single profit
the delivery of its business strategy;
137 to 146. metric of Core Group PBIT instead of two
– Create shareholder value; separate measures of profit which applied
Executive Director changes and
in previous years. The remaining 30% will
– Simplify pay arrangements; implementation of Remuneration policy
be subject to a scorecard of individual
for 2017
– Deliver an appropriately competitive objectives. This ensures that maximum
package to attract, retain and motivate New appointments to the Board bonus opportunities can only be delivered
executive talent; and As discussed elsewhere in the 2016 Annual if maximum targets are achieved in respect
– Further align remuneration arrangements Report, Sir Andrew Witty will be stepping of both the financial and individual elements
across the senior layers of the down as CEO with effect from 31 March of the plan.
2017 and will be succeeded by Emma
organisation.
Walmsley. As noted above, the Committee Departing executives
As part of the Remuneration policy review, gave careful and detailed consideration to As noted above, Sir Andrew Witty will be
which included reviewing the packages Emma’s remuneration package for 2017, stepping down as CEO with effect from
for the new CEO and President, R&D, taking into account all relevant factors. 31 March 2017. Dr Moncef Slaoui will also
the Committee carried out an extensive This included the constructive feedback be leaving the Board on 31 March 2017,
consultation process with a significant received from shareholders which resulted but will remain with the company until
number of our major shareholders. The in a number of refinements to the original 30 June 2017.
feedback received from shareholders proposals.
No termination payment will be made to
was greatly valued and given careful
Taking into account the fact that this is either Executive and all outstanding incentive
consideration by the Committee.
Emma’s first CEO role, reductions have been awards will be treated in accordance with
The key changes which we proposed to made to all elements of her remuneration the Remuneration policy. A more detailed
our Remuneration policy, with a focus on package in comparison to Sir Andrew’s summary of the treatment of these awards
increasing alignment with shareholders current arrangements. Her overall package is provided on page 136 and full details of
and reducing maximum incentive for 2017 will be c.25% less than that the payments made will be included in future
opportunities, included: received by Sir Andrew. It is the Committee’s Annual reports on remuneration.
– Removal of the bonus matching plan; intention to keep Emma’s package under AGM
review in the coming years subject to her
– Reduction of maximum potential pay development and performance in the role. Finally, I would like to thank shareholders
levels; We would engage with shareholders for their input and engagement during the
Remuneration policy review and I welcome
– Simplification of the Annual bonus regarding any changes within the limits all shareholders’ feedback on this report.
scheme; and set by the Remuneration policy. We look forward to receiving your support
– Increase to the CEO’s Share Ownership A summary of Emma Walmsley’s new for our new Remuneration policy and Annual
Requirement. package is set out after the end of this letter report on remuneration at our AGM on
on page 114. Further details are provided 4 May 2017.
in the Annual report on remuneration.
Dr Patrick Vallance joined the Board in
his role as President, R&D on 1 January
2017. He will receive a base salary of
£780,000 and his pension arrangements, Urs Rohner
annual bonus and PSP opportunities will be Remuneration Committee Chairman
in accordance with those set out in the
Remuneration policy. 13 March 2017114 GSK Annual Report 2016
Remuneration report
Chairman’s annual statement continued
Key changes to our Remuneration policy for 2017
– Increase in the level of mandatory deferral under the annual bonus from 25% to 50%
Alignment with shareholders
– Significant increase in Share Ownership Requirement for the CEO from 4x salary to 6.5x salary
Reduction in overall maximum – The overall maximum incentive opportunity for all Executive Directors has been reduced
opportunity e.g. the total remuneration package of the new CEO is c.25% less than that received by
the current CEO.
– Removal of matching awards under the DABP plan
Simplification
– Alignment of all Executive Directors’ on-target and maximum bonus opportunities
– Change from multiplicative to additive bonus structure
Overview of new CEO’s 2017 remuneration package
Overview Comparison with previous CEO Rationale
– £1,003,000 – 10% reduction – Lower salary awarded on
Base salary
initial appointment
– 20% of salary – Significantly lower – No increase in the level
BPeanssei osnalary
contribution to defined pension benefit than the of pension contribution
contribution plan (and previous CEO’s defined provided to Ms Walmsley
a further 5% matched benefit arrangement prior to her joining the
contribution on salary Board
up to £33,333
– Remains aligned with the
i.e. £1,667)
pension contribution
provided to other
Executives immediately
below the Board
– Target opportunity of – Reduction in the target – Aligns the annual bonus
Annual bonus
100% of salary bonus opportunity from opportunity and structure
– Maximum opportunity of 125% of salary for all Executive Directors
200% of salary
– Maximum opportunity of – Over 20% reduction in – Removal of matching
LTIs
550% of salary total long-term incentive awards under the DABP
opportunity from a simplifies the remuneration
maximum of 700% package and reduces the
of salary (which included overall incentive opportunity
awards under the PSP
– 2017 PSP opportunity
and matching awards
is also lower than that
under the DABP)
previously awarded to Sir
Andrew Witty
– 650% of salary – Significantly above the – Aligns the Share
Share Ownership Requirement
current requirement Ownership Requirement
of 400% of salary with the maximum PSP
opportunity under the
Remuneration policy and
further aligns the interests
of the CEO with those of
shareholders
Total reduction in package
of c. 25%115 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Annual report on remuneration
Investor information
2016 at a glance
Pay for performance
Objectives KPIs Incentive scheme outcomes
Financial: 2016 Annual bonus: financial performance
Grow a balanced business – Core Group Operating Profit
116%
– Core Group PBIT
Maximum
– Vaccines performance
(110% target)
Non-financial: 103% 103%
Health for all – Increase access to healthcare Target
Our behaviour – Putting patients and consumers first
Our people – Talent, development and diversity
Our planet – Reducing environmental impacts Threshold
(90% target)
Core Group Core Group Vaccines
Operating Profit PBIT Performance
Maximum performance target Performance achieved
Long-term strategic objectives: 2014 LTI outcome – performance period ended 31 December 2016
Strong R&D innovation – R&D new products
Relative R&D
Efficient global – Adjusted free cash flow
TSR new products
operating model
1/3rd 0% 33.33% 1/3rd
Three world-leading – Relative TSR
businesses
Adjusted
Award lapsed 0% free cash flow
Award vested 1/3rd
2016 highlights summary
The following shows a breakdown of total remuneration paid to Executive Directors in respect of 2016 and 2015:
Sir Andrew Witty, CEO Simon Dingemans, CFO Dr Moncef Slaoui, Chairman, Global Vaccines
£8m $10m
74% 75% $8m
£6m
58%
$6m 59%
£4m
$4m
69% 70%
£2m $2m 41% 42%
26% 25%
31% 30%
£0m $0m
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Fixed pay – salary, benefits and pension Performance pay – annual bonus and LTIs earned
Executive Directors’ shareholdings (audited) Share ownership vs SOR
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant Sir Andrew Witty 14.8x
holdings of shares in GSK over time. Executive Directors are 4x base salary*
required to continue to satisfy these shareholding requirements Simon Dingemans 5.7x
for a minimum of 12 months following retirement from the 3x base salary
company. CET members are also required to build up a Share
Dr Moncef Slaoui 10.2x
Ownership Requirement (SOR) of 2x base salary. 3x base salary
Current shareholdings compared to the SOR are illustrated in 0 2x 4x 6x 8x 10x 12x 14x
SOR 31.12.2016 shareholding
the chart opposite.
* F ollowing her appointment as CEO, the SOR for Emma Walmsley will increase to 6.5x base salary.
The SOR for Dr Patrick Vallance will be 3x base salary. Their levels of ownership as at 3 March 2017
were 2.5x and 6.9x their base salaries as CEO and President, R&D respectively.116 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Total remuneration for 2016 (audited)
Value earned
Annual Total
Salary Benefits Pension from LTI
bonus remuneration
awards
A. Fixed pay B. Pay for performance
The total remuneration for 2016 for each Executive Director is set out in the table below:
Dr Moncef Slaoui, Chairman,
Sir Andrew Witty, CEO Simon Dingemans, CFO Global Vaccines
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
£000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
A. Fixed pay
Salary See page 117 1,115 1,087 736 718 1,242 1,212
Benefits See page 117 124 110 92 82 495 545
Pension See page 118 520 458 147 144 875 1,316
Total fixed pay 1,759 1,655 975 944 2,612 3,073
B. Pay for performance
Annual bonus See pages 119 and 120 2,167 2,175 915 989 1,726 1,632
LTI awards:
Matching awards under DABP(1) 361 194 119 73 293 274
PSP (1) See page 121 2,543 2,637 1,119 1,160 1,812 2,345
Total pay for performance 5,071 5,006 2,153 2,222 3,831 4,251
A+B = Total remuneration(2) 6,830 6,661 3,128 3,166 6,443 7,324
Notes:
(1) Further details in respect of the vesting of PSP and DABP awards are provided on pages 130 to 133.
(2) The Committee may in specific circumstances, and in line with stated principles, apply clawback/malus, as it determines appropriate. Following due consideration by the Committee,
there has been no recovery of sums paid (clawback) or reduction of outstanding awards or vesting levels (malus) applied during 2016 in respect of any of the Executive Directors.
Deferral of 2016 annual bonus
% £000 Number of shares % £000 Number of shares % $000 Number of ADS
Amount of bonus deferred 25 542 50 458 25 432
Number of shares or ADS purchased 34,353 29,022 10,760117 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Total remuneration for 2016 (audited) continued
The following sections provide details of each element of ‘Total The global pharmaceutical comparator group is also used as the
remuneration’, including how the Committee implemented the basis for the TSR comparator group, which features in our long-term
approved Remuneration policy in 2016. incentive awards.
Comparator groups for pay and TSR (1) Following a review of the pay comparator group during the year,
The Committee used two pay comparator groups for all roles when these comparators have been removed from the group for 2017.
considering executive pay for 2016. The primary group used for each
(2) A bbVie and Amgen are included for remuneration benchmarking,
Executive Director was as follows:
but are not included in the TSR comparator group.
UK cross-industry Global pharmaceutical
When reviewing the CEO’s remuneration, the Committee also
comparator group comparator group
references pay for a group of leading European companies
Sir Andrew Witty Dr Moncef Slaoui
whose selection is based on their size and complexity.
Simon Dingemans
Anglo American(1) France Sanofi
AstraZeneca Switzerland Novartis
BG Group(1) Roche Holdings
BHP Billiton UK AstraZeneca
BP US AbbVie(2)
British American Tobacco Amgen(2)
Diageo Bristol-Myers Squibb
Reckitt Benckiser Eli Lilly
Rio Tinto Johnson & Johnson
Royal Dutch Shell Merck & Co
SAB Miller(1) Pfizer
Tesco(1)
Unilever
Vodafone
Fixed pay (audited)
Salary Other benefits comprise expenses incurred in the ordinary course of
The table below sets out the base salaries of the Executive Directors business, which are deemed to be taxable benefits on the individual
over the last two years. As disclosed last year, the salary increases and, as such, have been included in the table below.
made in 2016 were aligned with those provided to the wider
workforce. Details of salary levels for 2017 are provided on page 135. 2016 benefits 2015 benefits
Sir Andrew Witty (£000)
Base salary
% Employee benefits 63 26
change 2016 2015
Travel 23 48
Sir Andrew Witty 2.5% £1,114,500 £1,087,300
Other benefits 38 36
Simon Dingemans 2.5% £735,600 £717,700
Total 124 110
Dr Moncef Slaoui 2.5% $1,242,100 $1,211,800
Simon Dingemans (£000)
Benefits
Employee benefits 30 29
The following table shows a breakdown of the grossed up cash value
Travel 38 39
of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in 2016 and 2015.
Other benefits 24 14
Employee benefits include all employee share plans, healthcare, Total 92 82
car allowance, personal financial advice and life assurance/death
Dr Moncef Slaoui ($000)
in service cover.
Employee benefits 158 216
Travel expenses include car, travel and spouse/partner costs Travel 34 86
associated with accompanying the Executive Director on GSK Other benefits(1) 303 243
business, which are deemed to be taxable benefits on the individual.
Total 495 545
(1) For Dr Moncef Slaoui, other benefits include UK accommodation of $247,875 in 2016
(2015 – $225,806).118 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Fixed pay (audited) continued
Pensions
Executive Director Pension plan type Member since
Sir Andrew Witty UK defined benefit(1) 1991(2)
Simon Dingemans Cash payment in lieu of pension(3) –
Dr Moncef Slaoui US and Belgian plans 1988
(1) Sir Andrew’s maximum pension entitlement is two-thirds of final salary. Since 1 April 2013, pensionable salary increases have been limited to 2% p.a. for all members. The plan has been
closed to new entrants since 2001.
(2) Since becoming a member, Sir Andrew has built up pensionable service through the different tiers of the Glaxo Wellcome Pension Plan. His current pension entitlement is a
product of his service and progression within GSK.
(3) Simon Dingemans receives a cash payment in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary in line with GSK’s defined contribution pension plan rates.
The following table shows the breakdown of the pension values set out on page 116.
Sir Andrew Witty Simon Dingemans Dr Moncef Slaoui
2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015
Pension remuneration values(1) £000 £000 £000 £000 $000 $000
UK defined benefit 520 472 – – – –
US defined benefit – – – – 742 1,191
Belgian defined benefit(2) – – – – 10 57
Employer cash contributions – – 147 144 123 68
Member contributions to defined benefit plans – (14) – – – –
Total pension remuneration value 520 458 147 144 875 1,316
(1) T he pension remuneration figures have been calculated in accordance with the methodology set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group (Accounts and
Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 2013 (Remuneration Regulations). In calculating the defined benefit pension values for 2016, the difference between the accrued pension as
at 31 December 2016 and the accrued pension as at 31 December 2015 increased by inflation (0% for UK defined benefit, 1.7% for US defined benefit, 1.7% for Belgian defined
benefit) has been multiplied by 20.
(2) A mounts have been translated from Euros into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.11 for 2016 and 1.12 for 2015.
For Sir Andrew and Dr Moncef Slaoui, further details regarding the 2016 pension values are set out in the table below.
Accrued pension as at 31 December
2016 2015 Pension remuneration
Sir Andrew Witty £ (p.a.) £ (p.a.) value for 2016 (£000)
UK – Funded 71,591 71,648
UK – Unfunded 670,500 644,459
Total 742,091 716,107 520
Accrued pension as at 31 December
2016 2015 Pension remuneration
Dr Moncef Slaoui(1) $ (p.a.) $ (p.a.) value for 2016 ($000)
US – Funded 15,434 14,473 14
US – Unfunded 439,393 396,297 728
Belgium – Funded(2) 103,230 101,010 10
US – 401(k) & ESSP – – 123
Total 558,057 511,780 875
(1) Since becoming a member of these plans, Dr Moncef Slaoui has built up pensionable service in the Belgian Plan, and in the US Cash Balance and Supplemental Pension Plans.
Annual employer cash contributions were made to the 401(k) Plan and Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP). His current pension entitlement is a product of his service
and progression within GSK.
(2) A mounts have been translated from Euros into US Dollars using an exchange rate of 1.11 for 2016 and 1.12 for 2015.119 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pay for performance (audited)
Annual bonus The annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal review of performance against stretching financial targets. This
outcome is then adjusted to reflect individual performance by applying an Individual Performance Multiplier (IPM).
The IPM is set by the Committee taking into account performance against individual objectives. The multiplier may be
set between 0% and 150%.
2016 performance against targets
For 2016, the financial measures and weightings were as follows:
Weighting 2016 performance
Performance Positioning
measure Sir Andrew Witty Simon Dingemans Dr Moncef Slaoui 2016 Target(1)(2) Outcome (£)(2) against target
Core Group Operating Profit 75% 75% – £6,706m £6,914m 103%
Core Group PBIT 25% 25% 25% £6,386m £6,592m 103%
Vaccines performance – – 75% £1,038m £1,207m 116%
(1) Threshold and maximum performance targets were set at 90% and 110% of Target respectively.
(2) The Core Group Operating Profit and Core Group PBIT targets and outcomes for the purposes of annual bonus differ from Core Group Operating Profit and PBIT disclosed
elsewhere in this Annual Report, primarily because both the target and outcome numbers are calculated applying GSK budget exchange rates and not actual exchange rates.
The following table shows actual bonuses earned compared to opportunity for 2016:
2016 bonus opportunity 2016 bonus outcome
Financial
performance
Base salary Target Maximum outcome Total 2016 Total 2016
Bonus £/$000 (% of salary) (% of salary) (% salary) IPM % (% of salary) £/$000
Sir Andrew Witty £1,115 125 200 162 120 194 £2,167
Simon Dingemans £736 80 180 104 120 124 £915
Dr Moncef Slaoui $1,242 85 200 126 110 139 $1,726
The table below sets out the matters which the Committee considered in respect of the financial measures and weightings set for the
Executive Directors.
Financial performance
Core Group Operating – Group turnover increased 6% CER on a reported basis to £27.9 billion and 5% CER on a pro-forma basis.
Profit and Core Group
– Core Group Operating Profit increased by 14% CER on a reported basis and 17% CER on a pro-forma basis. Core Group PBIT
PBIT
grew 14% CER on a reported basis. Both of these were ahead of target performance for 2016 but below the maximum targets.
– Core operating margin of 27.9% was 4.6 percentage points higher than in 2015 and 2.6 percentage points higher in CER terms
on a pro-forma basis. This reflected improved operating leverage driven by sales growth and a more favourable mix across all three
businesses as well as delivery of restructuring and integration benefits and tight control of ongoing costs, partly offset by continued
price pressure, particularly in Respiratory, and supply chain and R&D investments.
Vaccines performance – Vaccines sales increased 14% CER on a reported basis to £4,592 million and 12% CER on a pro-forma basis.
– Overall results benefited from the strong performance of Bexsero, as well as higher demand for Fluarix/FluLaval in the US and
International and Menveo in International. Further growth was driven by Synflorix due to market expansion in International and a
tender award in Europe and Boostrix, which grew in Europe and International.
– Vaccines core operating profit increased by 38% in CER terms. The operating profit margin of 31.7% was 7.6 percentage points
higher than in 2015 in CER terms on a pro-forma basis.
– The results were driven primarily by improved product mix and enhanced operating leverage from strong sales growth, together
with integration and restructuring benefits in costs of sales, SG&A and R&D, and higher royalty income.120 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
In determining the appropriate Individual Performance Multiplier (IPM) that should be applied to the annual bonus outcome for each Executive
Director, the Committee took into account performance against a number of key strategic objectives that were set for each individual at the
start of the year.
A summary of the principal achievements of each Executive in respect of these objectives is provided in the table below:
Personal performance 2016 achievements
Sir Andrew Witty – Delivered all key financial objectives ahead of the financial plan.
– Achieved strong progress in the integration of the Novartis businesses in Consumer and Vaccines.
– New product sales more than doubled to £4.5 billion.
– Strong returns on R&D investment during the year with the approval and submission targets for late stage assets exceeded.
– Delivered sustained pipeline progress with 4 assets filed in H2 2016 (Shingrix, Closed Triple, Benlysta SC and Sirukumab)
and 4 key phase III starts in Q4 for assets in HIV, respiratory and anaemia.
– Delivered continued improvement in the quality risk profile across all three businesses.
– Fully implemented the new commercial business model and maintained progress on delivering our responsible business
commitments, e.g. topping Access to Medicines Index for the 5th consecutive year.
– Embedded a number of critical simplification and change programmes, realising benefits from our global platforms.
– Provided effective leadership to the Group during a year of significant change, while also successfully transitioning towards
a new CEO.
Simon Dingemans – Delivered strong financial leadership for the Group during 2016.
– Continued progress on cost savings made. Total annual cost savings now at £3 billion including currency benefit of £0.2 billion and
the Group remains on track to deliver the targeted annual savings of £3 billion at CER by 2017.
– Continued successful implementation of new business operating systems. BISON and IPT successfully went live and legacy systems
have been decommissioned. CERPS accounting systems were successfully deployed in 22 markets and MERPS system deployed
in nine sites.
– All but one exit from Novartis transaction related Service Agreements have been completed and Core Commercial cycle integrated
into financial planning process.
Dr Moncef Slaoui – Led a highly successful year in the Vaccines business overall.
– Effectively managed the Vaccines’ leadership succession and transition to the new Head of Vaccines, Luc Debruyne.
– Finalised the successful creation of Galvani, a bioelectronics joint venture with Verily Life Sciences, with significant opportunity to
create value for shareholders.
– Worked towards the creation of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations in support of biopreparedness and established
GSK’s place on the founding board amongst other major vaccines organisations.
– Supported GSK’s external reputation building in the global public health arena, working directly with WHO, BARDA, Wellcome Trust,
UNGA, and AMR.
Malus and clawback policy
The company’s policy on malus and clawback is set out in the company’s Remuneration policy report, (page 140) and is also available at
www.gsk.com in the Investors section.
From 1 January 2015 in respect of each financial year, the Committee discloses whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has exercised
clawback or malus.
Disclosure will only be made when the matter has been the subject of public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully resolved, where it
is legally permissible to disclose and where it can be made without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore shareholders.
In line with these disclosure guidelines, neither the Committee (nor the Recoupment Committee) has exercised malus or clawback during 2016.121 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Value earned from long-term incentives (LTIs)
In line with the Committee’s agreed principles, for each measure applicable to the 2014 and 2015 LTI awards, actual performance against
targets is reviewed and adjustments made as appropriate to reflect the impact of the Novartis transaction on the business and to ensure that
the vesting outcome reflects genuine underlying business performance. The Committee is satisfied that the adjusted targets remain suitably
stretching. Further details on any adjustments made will be provided at the time of vesting.
2014 awards with a performance period ended 31 December 2016
The Committee reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors against the targets set.
The performance achieved in the three years to 31 December 2016 and the vesting levels are set out in the table below.
Outcome and vesting level
Performance measures % of % of
and relative weighting Performance targets Outcome maximum award
R&D new product R&D new product sales performance measures aggregate three-year sales for new £6.72 bn 100 33.33
performance products launched in the three-year performance period and preceding two years,
(1/3rd) i.e. 2012-16.
Original target Adjusted target % vesting
Maximum £5.26 bn £4.43 bn 100%
£4.78 bn £4.03 bn 75%
£4.54 bn £3.82 bn 50%
Threshold £4.30 bn £3.62 bn 25%
Adjusted free In line with the company’s agreed principles, the AFCF figures included adjustments £9.29 bn 0 0
cash flow (AFCF) for a number of material distorting items, including legal settlements, exchange rate
performance movements and special pension contributions.
(1/3rd)
Original target Adjusted target % vesting
Maximum £16.22 bn £12.95 bn 100%
£15.51 bn £12.38 bn 75%
£14.10 bn £11.26 bn 50%
Threshold £13.68 bn £10.92 bn 25%
Relative TSR Ranked 9th 0 0
TSR ranking within comparator group1 % vesting
performance
Maximum 1st, 2nd, 3rd 100%
(1/3rd)
4th 72%
5th 44%
Threshold2 Median 30%
6th to 10th 0%
1 T SR comparator group: AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GSK,
Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi.
2 T he vesting schedule is based on delivering 30% vesting for median performance.
In a comparator group of ten companies, median falls between two companies.
Total vesting in respect of 2014 awards 33.33%122 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Pay for performance (audited) continued
Historical vesting for GSK’s LTIs
Year of grant Performance measures Total vesting level
2014 T A R 33 DABP matching awards were made from
2010 onwards. In 2010, DABP matching
2013 T A R B 21 17 awards were wholly subject to TSR
performance and had a total vesting level
of 30%. From 2011, awards were subject
2012 T A R B 7 7 to the same measures as the PSP and
vested in line with the figures shown in
the chart.
2011 T A R B 13 16 11
2010 T A 9 16
Performance measures key
2009 T A 9 40 R R&D new product
A Adjusted free cash flow
2008 T 35 T TSR
B Business diversification
2007 T 35 Lapsed
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Update on performance of ongoing LTI awards
The Committee also reviewed the performance of the PSP and DABP matching awards granted to Executive Directors in 2015 and 2016.
The following charts provide an estimate of the vesting levels taking into account performance to 31 December 2016.
Actual vesting levels will only be determined based on performance over the full three-year performance periods. The indications below
should therefore not be regarded as predictions of the final vesting levels.
2015 award – Performance update 2016 award – Performance update
Ranked 3rd 122% of Ranked 3rd 122% of
or above £13.6bn threshold or above £13.8bn threshold
Maximum Maximum
Commercially Commercially
Median £11.5bn sensitive Median £11.6bn sensitive
Threshold Threshold
TSR Adjusted free R&D new TSR Adjusted free R&D new
(1/3rd) cash flow product (1/3rd) cash flow product
Estimated vesting level (1/3rd) (1/3rd) Estimated vesting level (1/3rd) (1/3rd)
For threshold performance, 25% of each award will vest in respect of R&D new product and AFCF measures and 30% for the TSR element. The TSR comparator group remains
unchanged from that shown on page 121 in respect of the 2014 awards.
2016 long-term incentive awards
The levels of participation in the DABP in respect of 2015 are shown in the table below, together with the maximum matching awards granted
in 2016 in respect of the deferrals of 2015 bonuses. The table also shows PSP award levels for 2016.
DABP matching awards PSP awards
2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016
% of total bonus Number of Face value Award level as % Number of Face value
deferred shares/ADSs of award* of base salary shares/ADSs of award*
Sir Andrew Witty 25% 40,003 shares £0.54m 600% 492,052 shares £6.69m
Simon Dingemans 50% 36,381 shares £0.49m 400% 216,512 shares £2.94m
Dr Moncef Slaoui 50% 20,854 ADSs $0.82m 500% 158,714 ADSs $6.21m
* The face values of the awards have been calculated based on a share price of £13.59 for share awards and $39.13 for ADS awards, being the closing prices on 10 February 2016.
** The performance period for the 2016 awards is from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
*** DABP matching awards to UK Executives are made in the form of nil-cost options and PSP awards are made in the form of conditional shares. Awards to US Executives are made
over ADSs in the form of conditional shares.123 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
CEO pay comparison
2016 CEO total remuneration positioning Historic CEO remuneration
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
(£m)
Single figure of 6,830 6,661 3,902 7,207 4,386 6,807 4,562 5,790
12
remuneration
10 Annual bonus 97.2% 100% 42% 88% 44% 100% 59% 100%
award(1)
8 (% of maximum)
Vesting of LTI 33.3% 37.8% 13.5% 31% 24% 70% 35%(2) 35%(2)
6 awards
(% of maximum)
4
UK Global European
(1) 2009 and 2010 bonus amounts include amounts paid under the Operational Efficiency
cross-industry pharmaceutical cross-industry
Bonus in place for those years. The overall maximum bonus receivable was still subject
group group group to a limit of 200% of base salary.
Lower quartile to Median to upper Sir Andrew Witty’s
median quartile current position (2) I n respect of the 2007 and 2008 PSP awards. Sir Andrew also had outstanding awards
over 195,500 and 525,000 share options, granted in 2007 and 2008 respectively,
Remuneration includes salary and the expected value of incentives based on the which lapsed in full. These have not been included in the total vesting percentage due
Committee’s agreed benchmarking methodology. to the distorting effect of aggregating conditional shares and share options.
Percentage change in remuneration of CEO
Performance graph Sir Andrew Witty UK Employees
The following graph sets out the performance of the company relative 2016
to the FTSE 100 index and to the pharmaceutical performance £000 % change % change
comparator group for the eight year period to 31 December 2016. Salary 1,115 2.5% 2.9%
These indices were selected for comparison purposes as they reflect Benefits 124 12.7% 0%
both the primary index of which GSK is a constituent and the industry Annual bonus 2,167 0% (4%)
in which it operates.
This reflects salary earned in, benefits received in and annual
bonus earned in respect of 2016 compared with 2015. For the wider
280 UK employee population, the salary increase includes the annual
salary review as well as any additional changes in the year, e.g. on
260
promotion. The increase in benefits for the CEO is not as a result
240
of a change to his benefit arrangements. The CEO’s benefits were
220 higher in 2016 than in 2015 primarily as a result of an increased level
200 of financial planning fees. This was partially offset by a lower level of
180 travel. UK employee benefits are unchanged on the previous year as
there have been no changes to our benefit policies or levels. It does
160
not reflect any changes to the level of benefits an individual may
140
have received as a result of a change in role, e.g. promotion. The
120 UK population was considered to be the most relevant comparison
100 as it most closely reflects the economic environment encountered
80 by the CEO.
60
31/12/08 31/12/09 31/12/10 31/12/11 31/12/12 31/12/1331/12/14 31/12/1531/12/16
GSK Total Return GSK Pharma Peers FTSE 100
Total Return Index* Total Return Index
* This index comprises AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson &
Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche Holdings and Sanofi-Aventis.124 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Additional remuneration disclosures
Relative importance of spend on pay Shareholder votes on remuneration matters
The table shows the percentage changes in total employee pay and The table below provides details of the shareholder votes for the
the Group’s dividends paid to shareholders. most recent resolutions in respect of the Annual remuneration report
and Remuneration policy report.
2016 2015
£m £m % change
Votes
Total employee pay 8,212 8,030 2.3 Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
2016 AGM cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million)
Dividends 4,850 3,874 25.2
Remuneration report 3.7 84.7 15.3 708
Share buyback – – –
Votes
The figures in the table above, which reflect payments made during Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld
each year, are as set out on pages 174 and 180. However, dividends 2014 AGM cast (billion) for (%) against (%) (million)
declared in respect of 2016 were £3,892 million (2015 – £3,872 Remuneration policy 3.5 97.4 2.6 100
million plus a special dividend of £969 million), i.e. an increase of
0.5% excluding the special dividend. The company does not expect External appointments for Executive Directors
to make any ordinary share repurchases in 2017. No Executive Directors held remunerated external appointments.
Total employee pay is based on 99,827 employees, the average Payments to past Directors (audited)
number of people employed during 2016 (2015 – 101,192). None.
Service contracts Payments for loss of office (audited)
The table below sets out the relevant dates of the Executive None.
Directors’ service contracts, which are available for review at the
company’s registered office during office hours. All Executive
Directors’ service contracts contain a 12-month notice period,
as set out in the Remuneration policy report.
Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
Sir Andrew Witty 18.06.08 22.05.08 31.08.24
Emma Walmsley(1) 20.12.16 01.10.16 30.06.34
Simon Dingemans 08.09.10 04.01.11 30.04.28
Dr Moncef Slaoui 21.12.10 21.12.10 01.08.19
Dr Patrick Vallance(1) 19.12.16 01.01.17 31.03.25
(1) Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2017.
Remuneration governance
Role of the Committee Membership
The role of the Committee is to set the company’s remuneration The membership of the Committee, together with appointment
policy so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its dates, is set out below:
executives.
Committee members Committee member since
The Remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to ensure that it
is consistent with the company’s scale and scope of operations, Urs Rohner 1 January 2015
Chairman
supports the business strategy and growth plans and helps drive
the creation of shareholder value. Vindi Banga 1 January 2016
Terms of reference Dr Vivienne Cox 1 January 2017
The Committee’s full terms of reference are available on the Judy Lewent 1 January 2013
company’s website. The terms of reference, which are reviewed
Dr Stephanie Burns 1 May 2013 to 5 May 2016
at least annually, were last revised in January 2017 to reflect best
practice and corporate governance developments. Sir Deryck Maughan 1 July 2012 to 5 May 2016
Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 to 5 May 2016
Governance
The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to
Committee meetings usually include a closed session, during which
be independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with
only members of the Committee are present. Other individuals may
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
also be invited to attend Committee meetings during the year.
Executives and other Committee attendees are not involved in any
decisions, and are not present at any discussions regarding their
own remuneration.
Details of the Committee members’ skills and experience are
given in their biographies under ‘Our Board’ on pages 84 to 85.
See page 88 for Committee member attendance levels.125 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Remuneration governance continued
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and attends Deloitte provided independent commentary on matters under
all meetings. Other attendees at the Committee include: consideration by the Committee and updates on market practice
and legislative requirements. Deloitte’s fees for advice provided to
Committee attendees
the Committee in 2016 were £205,860. Fees were charged on a
Regular Attends as time and materials basis. Deloitte also provided other consulting,
Attendee attendee required
tax and assurance services to GSK during the year. However, the
CEO ✓
Committee is satisfied that this does not compromise the
CFO ✓ independence of the advice they have received from Deloitte.
Head of Human Resources ✓
Following the announcement that Deloitte will replace
Head of Reward ✓
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors of the company,
Committee Adviser – Deloitte LLP ✓ Deloitte will no longer be the named advisers to the Remuneration
Committee. The company is currently undergoing a tender process
Judy Lewent and Vindi Banga, as members of the Audit & Risk
with the intention that new advisers will be appointed by 1 July 2017.
and Remuneration Committees, provide input on the Audit & Risk
Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and oversight of Willis Towers Watson provided additional market data to the Committee.
any risk factors relevant to remuneration decisions. Committee evaluation
Adviser to the Committee The Committee’s annual evaluation was internally facilitated by
The Committee has access to external advice as required. The the Company Secretary and supplemented by a questionnaire
Committee carried out a formal review of the independent advisers circulated to Committee members on behalf of the Committee
to the Committee in 2013. As a result of this review, the Committee Chairman. It was concluded that the Committee continued to
reappointed Deloitte LLP (Deloitte) to provide it with independent operate effectively. In terms of enhancements to the Committee’s
advice on executive remuneration. The Committee Chairman agrees work, it was agreed that it would seek to gain a deeper
the protocols under which Deloitte provides advice and the understanding of the performance systems and culture and the
Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received from linkage with remuneration arrangements for the Group’s top talent.
Deloitte has been objective and independent.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants’ Group and,
as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation
to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. The code of conduct
can be found at www.remunerationconsultantsgroup.com.
What the Committee did during 2016
Areas of Committee focus Items discussed
Remuneration policy
The Committee sets the broad structure for the Remuneration policy and
determines the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and – Proposed Remuneration policy for 2017
other corporate officers for Board approval. – Engagement with shareholders
– Remuneration environment (including wider employee trends)
Salary review
The Committee periodically reviews and considers the remuneration – Executive Director and CET benchmarking, competitiveness and GSK
environment of Executive Directors & CET, approving annual amendments comparator groups
as necessary. – Executive Director and CET salary recommendations and increases for 2017
– CEO, Executive Director & CET 2015 bonus recommendations and 2016
Annual bonus
bonus objectives
The Committee is responsible for setting specific performance measures
for the annual bonus. – R&D annual bonus target metric
LTI plans
– Deferred Annual Bonus Plan rules
The Committee is responsible for approving LTI plan rule changes, grants,
assessments of performance, and the vesting of LTI awards for the Executive – LTI performance outcomes and vesting of LTI awards for CET and below
Directors, CET and below. – LTI grants for CET and below, including Share Value Plan awards.
– Committee evaluation process
– Shareholder feedback from Annual Investor Meetings
– 2015 Remuneration report
– Remuneration considerations for 2016
– AGM and Remuneration report feedback, the external remuneration
Governance and other areas of focus
environment and performance target disclosure for incentives plans
The Committee adheres to a robust remuneration governance framework,
ensuring alignment between internal actions and external reporting/ – Chairman’s fees
compliance requirements. – 2016 Remuneration report disclosures126 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
2016 Non-Executive Directors’ fees
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors’ fees that applied during 2016 are set
The company aims to provide the Chairman and other Non-Executive out in the table below:
Directors with fees that are competitive with those paid by other
Per annum
companies of equivalent size and complexity, subject to the limits
Standard annual fee £85,000
contained in GSK’s Articles of Association.
Supplemental fees
Chairman’s fees Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee £80,000
Chairman Philip Hampton is paid a fee of £700,000 per annum, Senior Independent Director and Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000
of which he has elected to take 25% in GSK shares. Chairmen of the Remuneration and Corporate £20,000
Responsibility Committees
Non-Executive Directors fees
Non-Executive Director undertaking intercontinental £7,500
No changes to Non-Executive Director fees were made during the
travel to meetings per meeting
year and fees remained at the levels set in January 2013. For each
Non-Executive Director, a minimum of 25% of fees is delivered as
shares deferred until the Non-Executive Director steps down from
the Board.
The table below (audited) sets out the value of fees and benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors in the form of cash and shares or
ADS. Further details of the Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan are set out on page 145. Non-Executive Directors fees that are paid
other than in GBP are converted using an average exchange rate that is reviewed from time to time.
2016 2015
Non-Executive Directors’
Fixed fees Fixed fees
emoluments (000) (audited)
Cash Shares/ADS Benefits(3) Total pay Cash Shares/ADS Benefits(3) Total pay
Professor Sir Roy Anderson £92 £31 £7 £130 £98 £32 £10 £140
Vindi Banga – £112 £8 £120 – £28 £1 £29
Dr Vivienne Cox(1) £32 £11 £5 £48 – – – –
Lynn Elsenhans £14 £128 £54 £196 £14 £122 £63 £199
Dr Jesse Goodman(1) $165 $55 $268 $488 – – – –
Philip Hampton £525 £175 £13 £713 £389 £130 £3 £522
Judy Lewent $239 $80 $218 $537 $249 $83 $171 $503
Urs Rohner £84 £28 £22 £134 £85 £28 £19 £132
Dr Stephanie Burns(2) $51 $27 $21 $99 $91 $91 $77 $259
Stacey Cartwright(2) £69 £23 £5 £97 £75 £25 £7 £107
Sir Deryck Maughan(2) $28 $55 $44 $127 – $241 $146 $387
Dr Daniel Podolsky(2) $56 $50 $78 $184 $60 $181 $155 $396
Hans Wijers £32 £5 £8 £45 £75 £25 £16 £116
(1) Dr Jesse Goodman joined the Board from 1 January 2016. In accordance with the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation Plan, 25% of Dr Jesse Goodman’s fees will
be retained and will be re-invested in the company’s ADSs at a future date, to be mutually agreed. Dr Vivienne Cox joined the Board from 1 July 2016.
(2) Dr Stephanie Burns, Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Daniel Podolsky and Hans Wijers all retired from the Board at the AGM on 5 May 2016. Stacey Cartwright retired from the Board on
31 December 2016.
(3) Benefits primarily consist of travel and subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other
GSK-hosted events which are considered to be taxable. For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the UK.127 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited)
The interests of the Directors of the company in office at 31 December 2016 and their persons closely associated (PCA) are shown in the
tables below.
Total share plan interests as at 31 December 2016
Total directors’ interests as at Shares/ADS Options
(a)Unvested and Unvested and (a)Unvested and Unvested and
3 March 31 December 1 January not subject to subject to not subject to subject to Vested but Exercised in
2017 2016 2016 performance performance performance performance not exercised the year
Executive Directors
Shares
Sir Andrew Witty(b,c,d,f,h) 1,090,542 1,034,521 859,350 70,252 1,462,023 143,640 142,752 – 50,199
Simon Dingemans(b,c,d,f,h) 323,181 263,245 179,527 – 643,346 77,523 76,811 – 19,224
Dr Moncef Slaoui(c,d,e,g) 28,475 28,473 28,300 – – – – – –
Emma Walmsley(k) 161,046 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Dr Patrick Vallance(k) 345,947 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
ADS
Dr Moncef Slaoui(c,d,e,g) 346,846 295,974 234,270 86,519 507,421 – – 3,810 –
Share allocation plan for Non-Executive Directors
Total directors’ interests as at Number of shares or ADS
31 December 1 January
2016 2016
3 March or date of or date of (i)Dividends 31 December Allocated 31 December
2017 retirement appointment reinvested 2016 Paid out & elected 2015
Non-Executive Directors
Shares(i)
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 27,812 25,499 23,969 1,850 25,499 – 1,530 23,969
Vindi Banga 44,825 42,705 37,303 271 7,505 – 5,402 2,103
Dr Vivienne Cox 669 323 – 4 323 – 323 –
Philip Hampton 29,016 25,279 16,696 924 18,361 – 8,583 9,778
Urs Rohner 4,097 3,488 2,080 187 3,488 – 1,408 2,080
Dr Stephanie Burns(j) – 44 44 – – – – –
Stacey Cartwright(j) – 9,631 8,469 – 9,510 – 1,163 8,347
Hans Wijers(j) – 5,223 4,845 – – 5,223 378 4,845
ADS(i)
Lynn Elsenhans 20,809 18,205 14,839 1,177 17,205 – 3,366 13,839
Dr Jesse Goodman(i) – – – – – – – –
Judy Lewent 20,219 19,052 17,636 626 8,886 – 1,417 7,469
Dr Stephanie Burns(j) – 21,263 20,584 – – 21,198 678 20,520
Sir Deryck Maughan(j) – 53,294 51,937 – – 53,294 1,357 51,937
Dr Daniel Podolsky(j) – 38,973 37,745 – 38,973 – 1,228 37,745
a) U nvested shares not subject to performance of 70,252 for Sir Andrew represent 25% of the shares awarded at the end of the three year performance periods
for the 2012 and 2013 PSP grants, together with subsequent re-invested dividends. These shares are subject to further two-year vesting periods. Sir Andrew’s
unvested options not subject to performance of 143,640 represent bonus deferrals of 142,752 and Share Save options of 888.
Unvested options not subject to performance of 77,523 for Simon Dingemans represent bonus deferrals of 76,811 and Share Save options of 712.
Unvested ADS not subject to performance of 86,519 for Dr Moncef Slaoui represent bonus deferrals of 56,646, deferrals under the PSP plan of 22,743 and
Share Value Plan awards for his PCA of 7,130.
b) T otal Directors’ interests includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline Share Reward Plan. During 2016, Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans
were each awarded 99 shares under the plan. The total number of shares held within the plan are as follows:
Share Reward Plan (Shares) 3 March 2017 31 December 2016 1 January 2016
Sir Andrew Witty 3,616 3,541 3,132
Simon Dingemans 1,423 1,375 1,100
Emma Walmsley(k) 1,016 N/A N/A
Dr Patrick Vallance(k) 2,984 N/A N/A
Dr Moncef Slaoui is not eligible to participate in the Share Reward Plan, as this is only open to UK employees.128 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
c) T otal directors’ interests includes shares or ADS resulting from the deferral of bonus (and the subsequent re-investment of dividends) under the DABP. The totals
shown in the table below include bonus deferrals, but exclude any unvested matching awards which are subject to ongoing performance criteria. The amounts
represent the gross share and ADS balances prior to the sale of any shares or ADS to satisfy tax liabilities.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (Bonus deferrals) 3 March 2017 31 December 2016 1 January 2016
Sir Andrew Witty Shares 110,972 142,752 130,307
Simon Dingemans Shares 84,317 76,811 49,729
Dr Moncef Slaoui ADS 46,425 56,646 50,897
Emma Walmsley(k) Shares 73,134 N/A N/A
Dr Patrick Vallance(k) Shares 72,299 N/A N/A
d) T otal directors’ interests at 3 March 2017 includes any shares or ADS which vested due to performance being met under elements of the DABP and PSP
(2014-2016 awards), less those sold to satisfy tax liabilities on the vested amounts (see pages 130 to 133 for further details).
e) F or Dr Moncef Slaoui, total directors’ interests includes ADS purchased within the 401(k) Plan and the US Executive Supplemental Savings Plan (ESSP), and
ADS awarded to Dr Moncef Slaoui’s PCA under the SVP. The relevant balances are as follows:
Dr Moncef Slaoui (ADS) 3 March 2017 31 December 2016 1 January 2016
US Retirement Savings Plans 16,839 16,452 13,431
Share Value Plan 4,830 7,130 7,820
As an Executive Director, Dr Moncef Slaoui is not eligible to receive awards under the SVP. The SVP awards shown above reflect the holdings of Dr Slaoui’s
PCA, who is also an employee of GSK. The awards are subject to three-year vesting periods and vesting is contingent on continued employment within GSK.
Any gains arising on vesting are not included in Dr Moncef Slaoui’s total remuneration figures. During the year, his PCA was granted 2,300 ADS on 22
September 2016 at a grant price of $43.58 (face value of $100,234). Dr Moncef Slaoui’s total share plan interests also include PSP awards held by his PCA.
These awards are subject to performance criteria relevant to employees below the CET. As at 31 December 2016, his PCA held 6,777 ADS under the PSP,
comprising awards made in 2014 (2,384 ADS), 2015 (2,258 ADS) and 2016 (2,135 ADS), all amounts including dividend re-investment.
f) Share Save Plan
For Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans, the unvested options not subject to performance include holdings of 888 and 712 respectively in the Share
Save Plan, in which they participate on the same terms as all other employees. No Share Save options were granted to Sir Andrew Witty during 2016.
Simon Dingemans was granted 208 options under the plan on 30 November 2016.
g) T he ADS vested but unexercised options totalling 3,810 for Dr Moncef Slaoui represent the ADS options held by his PCA.129 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
h) The following table sets out details of options (including nil-cost options under the DABP) exercised during 2016 by Executive Directors. Dr Moncef Slaoui
did not exercise any options during the year.
Number of shares Market Gain on exercise
Type of award Date of grant under option Date of exercise Grant price price at exercise (000)
Sir Andrew Witty
DABP – deferral 28.02.13 36,442 18.03.16 – £13.82 £504
DABP – matching 28.02.13 13,757 18.03.16 – £13.82 £190
50,199 £694
Simon Dingemans
Share Save 30.10.13 216 01.12.16 £12.47 £14.69 –
DABP – deferral 28.02.13 13,799 06.05.16 – £14.50 £200
DABP – matching 28.02.13 5,209 06.05.16 – £14.50 £76
19,224 £276
In respect of options under the Share Save Plan, the remuneration receivable by an Executive Director is calculated on the date that the options first
vest. The remuneration is the difference between the amount the Executive Director is required to pay to buy the shares or ADS and the total value of
the shares or ADS on the vesting date. If the Executive Director chooses not to exercise the options on the vesting date, any subsequent increase or
decrease in the amount realised will be due to movements in the share or ADS price between the vesting date and the date of exercise. This increase
or decrease in value is the result of an investment decision by the Executive Director and, as such, is not recorded as remuneration.
In respect of nil-cost options under the DABP, the bonus which is deferred by the Director is recorded as remuneration (under annual bonus) for the year to
which it relates. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises this remuneration, the total of the amounts received in re-invested dividends prior
to vesting and the gains or losses resulting from movements in the share price between the dates of grant and exercise for the initial bonus amount deferred and
the dates of dividend reinvestment and exercise for the re-invested dividends.
For the matching element of the DABP, the remuneration of the Executive Director is recorded in the year that the performance period ends and represents the
number of vested shares multiplied by the price at vesting. The gain recorded on exercise of the nil-cost option comprises the total of this remuneration and the
gain or loss resulting from the movement in the share price between vesting and exercise.
For Sir Andrew Witty:
– The gain of £503,628 recorded following the exercise of the 36,442 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2012 comprises
remuneration of £452,400 recorded in 2012 as annual bonus and a net gain of £51,228 relating to the re-investment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £190,122 recorded following the exercise of the 13,757 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of
£194,111 recorded in 2015 in relation to the DABP (see page 130) and an investment loss of £3,989 relating to the movement in the share price between
the vesting and exercise dates.
For Simon Dingemans:
– A gain of £480 resulted from the exercise of 216 options granted under the Share Save Plan.
– The gain of £200,086 recorded following the exercise of the 13,799 nil-cost options relating to the deferral of bonus earned in respect of 2012 comprises
remuneration of £171,330 recorded in 2012 as annual bonus and a net gain of £28,756 relating to the re-investment of dividends prior to vesting and
movements in the share price between grant and dividend re-investment dates and the exercise date.
– The gain of £75,531 recorded following the exercise of the 5,209 nil-cost options relating to the DABP matching award comprises remuneration of £73,499
recorded in 2015 in relation to the DABP (see page 130) and an investment gain of £2,032 relating to the movement in the share price between the vesting
and exercise dates.
i) F or Non-Executive Directors, total interests include shares or ADS received as part or all of their fees under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation
Plan. Note that dividends received on shares or ADS under the plan during 2016 and January 2017 were converted into shares or ADS as at 8 February 2017.
In accordance with the share allocation arrangements for Non-Executive Directors, 25% of Dr Jesse Goodman’s fees will be retained and will be reinvested in
the company’s ADS at a future date, to be mutually agreed.
j) D r Stephanie Burns, Sir Deryck Maughan and Hans Wijers all retired from the Board on 5 May 2016. They elected to receive their shares or ADS from the
Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation Plan immediately upon retiring from the Board. Dividend entitlements in respect of the Q3 and Q4 2015 and the
Q1 2016 dividends were paid in cash in accordance with the plan rules. Dr Daniel Podolsky also retired on 5 May 2016, but has not yet been paid out his GSK
ADS under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation Plan as he elected to defer payment until after Q1 2017. Stacey Cartwright retired from the Board on
31 December 2016 and elected to receive her GSK shares under the Non-Executive Directors’ Share Allocation Plan immediately following retirement.
k) E mma Walmsley and Dr Patrick Vallance were appointed to the Board from 1 January 2017.130 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in office at 31 December 2016 in respect of DABP matching awards. Market
price at grant and at vesting represent the closing share prices from the business day prior to those dates.
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant £14.54 £16.43 £15.20 £13.59
Unvested at 31 December 2015 35,947 62,857 31,503 –
Granted – – – 40,003
Face value at grant (000) – – – £544
Dividends reinvested 495 4,195 2,103 2,091
Vested (13,757) – – –
Lapsed (22,685) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2016 – 67,052 33,606 42,094
Dividends reinvested 814 408 511
Vested (22,621) – –
Lapsed (45,245) – –
Unvested at 3 March 2017 – 34,014 42,605
Vested shares
Number of shares 13,757 22,621
Market price at vesting £14.11 £15.95
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2015 £194 –
Remuneration for 2016 – £361
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019
Market price at grant £14.54 £16.43 £15.20 £13.59 £15.77
Unvested at 31 December 2015 13,611 20,791 15,327 – –
Granted – – – 36,381 –
Face value at grant (000) – – – £494 –
Dividends reinvested 187 1,388 1,023 1,901 –
Vested (5,209) – – – –
Lapsed (8,589) – – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2016 – 22,179 16,350 38,282 –
Granted – – – 29,022
Face value at grant (000) – – – £458
Dividends reinvested 269 198 465 –
Vested (7,483) – – –
Lapsed (14,965) – – –
Unvested at 3 March 2017 – 16,548 38,747 29,022
Vested shares
Number of shares 5,209 7,483
Market price at vesting £14.11 £15.95
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2015 £73 –
Remuneration for 2016 – £119131 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan matching awards continued
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant $44.27 $54.17 $46.25 $39.13
Unvested at 31 December 2015 18,325 20,073 12,500 –
Granted – – – 20,854
Face value at grant (000) – – – $816
Dividends reinvested 247 1,321 822 1,076
Vested (7,011) – – –
Lapsed (11,561) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2016 – 21,394 13,322 21,930
Dividends reinvested 251 156 257
Vested (7,215) – –
Lapsed (14,430) – –
Unvested at 3 March 2017 – 13,478 22,187
Vested ADS
Number of ADS 7,011 7,215
Market price at vesting $39.14 $40.57
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2015 $274 –
Remuneration for 2016 – $293
Emma Walmsley and Dr Patrick Vallance were appointed to the Board from 1 January 2017. The following table provides details on their DABP
matching awards granted on 15 February 2017.
Granted shares Emma Walmsley Dr Patrick Vallance
Performance period 2017-2019 2017-2019
Number of shares 31,945 21,632
Market price at grant £15.77 £15.77
Face value at grant (000) £504 £341
Unvested at 3 March 2017 31,945 21,632132 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Performance Share Plan awards
The following tables provide details for each Executive Director in office at 31 December 2016 in respect of PSP awards. Market price at
grant and at vesting represent the closing share prices on those dates.
Performance period
Sir Andrew Witty – Shares
2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant £14.54 £16.43 £15.20 £13.59
Unvested at 31 December 2015 505,239 437,051 448,125 –
Granted – – – 492,052
Face value at grant (000) – – – £6,687
Dividends reinvested 6,954 29,171 29,909 25,715
Vested (193,354) – – –
Lapsed (318,839) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2016 – 466,222 478,034 517,767
Dividends reinvested 5,656 5,800 6,282
Vested (157,279) – –
Lapsed (314,599) – –
Unvested at 3 March 2017 – 483,834 524,049
Vested shares:
Number of shares 193,354 157,279
Market price at vesting £13.64 £16.17
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2015 £2,637 –
Remuneration for 2016 – £2,543
Performance period
Simon Dingemans – Shares
2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant £14.54 £16.43 £15.20 £13.59
Unvested at 31 December 2015 222,312 192,325 197,197 –
Granted – – – 216,512
Face value at grant (000) – – – £2,942
Dividends reinvested 3,060 12,836 13,161 11,315
Vested (85,078) – – –
Lapsed (140,294) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2016 – 205,161 210,358 227,827
Dividends reinvested 2,489 2,552 2,764
Vested (69,210) – –
Lapsed (138,440) – –
Unvested at 3 March 2017 – 212,910 230,591
Vested shares:
Number of shares 85,078 69,210
Market price at vesting £13.64 £16.17
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2015 £1,160 –
Remuneration for 2016 – £1,119133 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Directors’ interests in shares (audited) continued
Performance Share Plan awards continued
Performance period
Dr Moncef Slaoui – ADS
2013-2015 2014-2016 2015-2017 2016-2018
Market price at grant $44.27 $54.17 $46.25 $39.13
Unvested at 31 December 2015 154,179 123,242 136,751 –
Granted – – – 158,714
Face value at grant (000) – – – $6,210
Dividends reinvested 2,082 8,108 8,996 8,187
Vested (58,989) – – –
Lapsed (97,272) – – –
Unvested at 31 December 2016 – 131,350 145,747 166,901
Dividends reinvested 1,539 1,708 1,955
Vested (44,292) – –
Lapsed (88,597) – –
Unvested at 3 March 2017 – 147,455 168,856
Vested ADS
Number of ADS 58,989 44,292
Market price at vesting $39.76 $40.92
Gain: (000) (000)
Remuneration for 2015 $2,345 –
Remuneration for 2016 – $1,812134 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Directors and Senior Management
Further information is provided on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management as a group (‘the group’). For this purpose,
the group is defined as the Non-Executive and Executive Directors, other members of the CET and the Company Secretary. For the financial
year 2016, the following table sets out aggregate remuneration for the group for the periods during which they served in that capacity.
Remuneration for 2016 (£)
Total compensation paid 24,279,911
Aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits (net of inflation) 184,582
Aggregate payments to defined contribution schemes 974,193
During 2016, members of the group (and one PCA who is also an employee of GSK) were awarded shares and ADS under the company’s
various share plans, as set out in the table below.
Awards Dividend reinvestment awards
Awarded during 2016 Shares ADS Shares ADS
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 237,822 35,614 33,451 5,281
Performance Share Plan 1,828,527 260,411 323,503 49,964
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) – – 13,493 284
Share Value Plan(b) 11,060 2,300 – –
At 3 March 2017, the group and their PCAs had the following interests in shares and ADS of the company. Holdings issued under the various
executive share plans are described in Note 43 to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’ on page 223.
Interests at 3 March 2017 Shares ADS
Owned 2,262,806 421,300
Unexercised options 179,582 20,170
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 1,235,336 165,711
Performance Share Plan 3,821,454 708,471
Deferred Investment Awards(a) (b) 118,012 23,907
Share Value Plan(b) 37,132 27,199
(a) N otional shares and ADS.
(b) Executive Directors are not eligible to receive Deferred Investment Awards or participate in the Share Value Plan.
Other share plans and dilution limits
All-employee share plans Dilution limits
The Executive Directors participate in various all-employee share All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution
plans, including Share Save and Share Reward. limits consistent with the guidelines published by the Investment
Association. These limits are 10% in any rolling ten year period for
The Share Save Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs approved
all plans and 5% in any rolling ten year period for executive share
plan open to all UK employees. Participants may save up to £250
plans. Estimated dilution from existing awards made over the last
a month from their net salaries for a fixed term of three years and
ten years up to 31 December 2016 is as follows:
at the end of the savings period they have the option to buy GSK
shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price set at the
launch of each savings contract. Sir Andrew Witty and Simon
Dingemans each contribute £250 and £225 respectively a month All GSK employee share plans Executive share plans
into the Share Save Plan.
10
The Share Reward Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs approved 10%
plan open to all UK employees on the same terms. Participants
08
contribute up to £125 a month from their gross salaries to purchase
GSK shares and the company matches the number of GSK shares
06
bought each month under this arrangement. Sir Andrew Witty and
Simon Dingemans each contribute the maximum of £125 a month 04 5%
to buy shares under the Share Reward Plan.
02 2.53% 2.20%
0
Actual Limit135 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2017
Salary Inevitably, targets linked directly to the financial and strategic plan
The Committee determined the following salary increases taking into are commercially sensitive. The Committee does not consider it
account the average increase for the wider workforce: appropriate to disclose annual bonus targets during the year as it
may result in competitive harm. However, details of the performance
2017 % change targets will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the 2017 Annual
Wider workforce(1) – 2.5 Report.
Sir Andrew Witty £1,114,500 0
As Sir Andrew and Dr Moncef Slaoui will cease to be Executive
Dr Moncef Slaoui $1,242,100 0
Directors during the year, in accordance with the Remuneration
Simon Dingemans £754,000 2.5 policy they will receive a pro-rata on-target bonus payment for 2017.
Emma Walmsley(2) £1,003,000 N/A The Committee has set role specific objectives for them for this
Dr Patrick Vallance(3) £780,000 N/A period. As the two individuals will cease to be Executive Directors
before the new Remuneration policy is approved, the target bonus
(1) Based on the average increase budget for employees below the level of CET in the UK.
opportunities will be as set out in the policy approved by
(2) Effective from appointment to the role of CEO on 1 April 2017 and is 10% lower than
shareholders in 2014 (i.e. 125% of salary for Sir Andrew and 85%
that received by Sir Andrew Witty. Emma Walmsley was appointed to the Board on
1 January 2017 as CEO Designate with a base salary of £850,000. of salary for Dr Moncef Slaoui).
(3) Effective from appointment to the Board on 1 January 2017. Legacy awards – matching awards under the DABP
Benefits 2017 was the last time matching awards were made under the
No significant changes to the provision of benefits are proposed for DABP. These awards relate to 2016 bonus outcomes under the
2017. For full details of the policy in relation to benefits, please refer 2014 Remuneration policy.
to the details in the Remuneration policy report on page 138.
The table below provides details of the level of participation in the
Pension DABP in respect of 2016 annual bonus payments and associated
The table below provides an overview of the pension arrangements matching awards granted.
for each Executive Director in 2017.
Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui did not receive matching
Pension contribution awards in 2017 as they will cease to be Executive Directors during
Sir Andrew Witty(1) UK defined benefit the year. However, their 2016 annual bonus payments were subject
Dr Moncef Slaoui(1) US and Belgian plans to a 25% mandatory deferral.
Simon Dingemans 20% of base salary in lieu of pension
% of total bonus 2017 matching
Emma Walmsley(2) 20% of base salary and matching contributions
deferred into award (number
Dr Patrick Vallance 20% of base salary in lieu of pension shares shares)
Emma Walmsley(1) 50 31,945
(1) Further details provided on page 118.
Simon Dingemans 50 29,022
(2) As a member of the defined contribution plan, is eligible to receive a matching award
of up to 5% on the first £33,333 of her salary in accordance with the terms of the plan Dr Patrick Vallance(1) 50 21,632
(i.e. £1,667).
(1) Matching awards based on bonus earned in respect of 2016 prior to appointment
Annual bonus plan to the Board.
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards
A number of changes have been made to the operation of the It is intended that awards under the PSP will be made later in the year
Annual bonus plan for 2017 to simplify and align it for all following the approval of the PSP rules at the AGM on 4 May 2017.
Executive Directors. No awards will be made in 2017 to Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef
Slaoui. Awards to the remaining Executive Directors will be made at
– The matching awards have been removed from the Deferred
the following levels.
Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) and the percentage of the bonus
that will be subject to mandatory deferral into shares for a 2017 PSP award
(% of salary)
period of three years has increased from 25% to 50%.
Emma Walmsley 550
– Financial performance will now be measured by reference
Simon Dingemans 400
to just one profit related measure, Core Group PBIT, with
Dr Patrick Vallance 500
operating profit removed as a measure. Group PBIT has
been selected as being the profit measure most aligned to
Performance measures
shareholders.
The metrics for the PSP and DABP matching awards remain
– The calculation of the bonus will now operate on an additive unchanged. The 2017 awards will continue to be based on three
basis, with the removal of the Individual Performance Multiplier equally weighted measures: R&D new product performance,
and the introduction of a scorecard of individual objectives adjusted free cash flow and relative TSR.
aligned to the strategic goals of the business for the year.
TSR will continue to be measured against global pharmaceutical
peers. As in prior years, targets for R&D new products are
commercially sensitive at the time of grant. However, the Committee
Bonus opportunity Weighting of
% of salary performance measures intends to disclose targets in full following the end of the
Core Scorecard performance period. In addition, the Committee will continue to
Group of individual provide shareholders with interim performance updates for this
Target Maximum PBIT % objectives % element over the course of the performance period. The adjusted
Emma Walmsley free cash flow targets will be disclosed to shareholders on a
Simon Dingemans 100 200 70 30 prospective basis at the time of grant, and will thereafter be reported
Dr Patrick Vallance in the 2017 Annual report on remuneration.136 GSK Annual Report 2016
Annual report on remuneration continued
Implementation of Remuneration policy for 2017 continued
Termination arrangements for Sir Andrew Witty and Non-Executive Director fees for 2017
Dr Moncef Slaoui Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed during the year following
As announced in 2016, both Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef the last increase in January 2013.
Slaoui will leave the Board by mutual agreement on 31 March
It was agreed to increase the fees for the Chairmen of the
2017. Dr Moncef Slaoui will remain an employee of the Group until
Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees from
30 June 2017.
£20,000 to £30,000. The Chairman of the new Science Committee
No termination payments will be made to Sir Andrew Witty and will also receive a fee of £30,000. All other fees remain unchanged.
Dr Moncef Slaoui. Defined benefit pension arrangements and A minimum of 25% of fees will continue to be delivered as shares
outstanding incentive awards will be treated in accordance with deferred until the Non-Executive Director steps down from the
the Remuneration policy as approved by shareholders in 2014. Board.
Full disclosure of all payments made upon cessation will be included
in the 2017 Annual report on remuneration.
Remuneration element Summary of treatment
2017 Annual bonus Will receive an on-target bonus payment
pro-rated for the proportion of the financial
year worked
2017 PSP award and Will not be granted 2017 PSP awards and no
DABP matching award DABP matching awards will be granted in
respect of their 2016 bonuses
2016 and 2015 PSP Will vest at the normal vesting dates, subject
and DABP matching awards to the achievement of performance conditions
assessed at the end of the performance
periods
2016, 2015 and 2014 Awards in respect of bonuses deferred in
deferred bonuses respect of prior years will vest at the normal
vesting dates
In addition to the above, both Executive Directors will be required to
maintain a shareholding equal to their respective share ownership
requirements for at least 12 months after leaving the company.137 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
2017 Remuneration policy summary
Investor information
Remuneration policy review
Our first Remuneration policy was approved by our shareholders In addition, changes to the policy have been made to:
at our AGM on 7 May 2014. As required under the regulations,
– Further align remuneration arrangements across the senior layers
shareholders are being asked to approve a new Remuneration policy
of the organisation;
at our AGM on 4 May 2017 which it is intended will apply for the
next three financial years. – Deliver an appropriately competitive package to attract, retain and
motivate executive talent; and
During 2016, the Committee reviewed the Remuneration policy to
ensure that the Policy continues to: – Simplify pay arrangements.
– Be aligned with best practice; The Committee consulted with our largest shareholders in respect of
the proposed changes and took shareholders’ feedback into account
– Create shareholder value; and
when finalising the revised Remuneration policy. The table below
– Drive the success of the company and the delivery of its provides an overview of the main changes that are proposed in
business strategy. respect of the Remuneration policy.
The full Remuneration policy that shareholders are asked to approve
is set out on pages 138 to 146.
Remuneration element Proposed changes to policy Rationale for the change
Mandatory deferral of Annual bonus – Increased from 25% to 50% of any bonus Alignment with shareholders:
earned. Further aligns executives with the long-term
interests of shareholders.
Simplification of the Annual bonus – Simplify and align structure for all Executive Simplification:
Directors. Consistent approach for all Executive Directors,
– Reduce the level of pay-out for threshold that can be clearly communicated.
performance to nil. Pay for performance:
Ensures that higher levels of bonus pay-out are
only received for significant performance.
Annual bonus and Performance Share Plan – Provide additional flexibility for the Committee Flexibility:
(PSP) performance measures to determine the performance measures used In the context of the appointment of the new
on an annual basis during the three year life CEO, it is considered appropriate to provide
of the Remuneration policy. sufficient flexibility to ensure performance
– The Committee would consult with metrics chosen over the next three years will
shareholders prior to changing the remain aligned with the key financial and
performance measures used. strategic objectives of the company.
LTI opportunities – The matching element of the DABP has been Simplification:
removed. Going forward, the PSP will be the only
long-term incentive plan that is used.
– The maximum LTI opportunity for the CEO Reduction in maximum opportunity:
will be reduced from 700% to 650% of Total LTI opportunity for all Executive Directors
salary. has been reduced. In 2017, the award to the
CEO will be below the maximum opportunity
(550% of salary).
Share Ownership Requirements (SOR) – Formally include the shareholding guidelines Alignment with shareholders:
as part of the Remuneration policy. To provide further alignment with shareholders.
– Increased SOR for CEO to 6.5x salary.138 GSK Annual Report 2016
Remuneration policy report
Future policy table
Subject to shareholder approval at the company’s AGM on 4 May 2017, the Remuneration Policy for each remuneration element will be as
outlined in the table below.
Salary No material change
Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity
To provide a core reward for the role. There is no formal maximum limit and, ordinarily, salary increases
will be broadly in line with the average increases for the wider GSK
Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre individuals
workforce.
needed to deliver the Group’s strategic priorities.
However, increases may be higher to reflect a change in the scope
Operation
of the individual’s role, responsibilities or experience. Salary
Individual’s role, experience, performance and independently
adjustments may also reflect wider market conditions in the
sourced data for relevant comparator groups considered when
geography in which the individual operates.
determining salary levels.
Details of current salary levels are set out in the Annual report on
Salary increases typically take effect in the first quarter of each year.
remuneration.
Salaries are normally paid in the currency of the Executive Director’s
Performance measures
home country.
The overall performance of the individual is a key consideration
when determining salary increases.
Benefits No material change
Purpose and link to strategy role, Executive Directors are also entitled to car travel and may be
Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre individuals to execute accompanied by their spouse/partner on business trips. Other
the business strategy. benefits include expenses incurred in the ordinary course of
business, which are deemed to be taxable benefits on the individual.
Operation
Executive Directors are eligible to receive benefits in line with the Benefit provision is tailored to reflect market practice in the
policy for other employees which may vary by location. These include, geography in which the Executive Director is based and different
but are not limited to, car allowances, healthcare, life assurance/ policies may apply if current or future Executive Directors are based
death in service (where not provided as part of the individual’s in a different country.
pension arrangements), personal financial advice and contractual
Opportunity
post-retirement benefits. In line with the policy for other employees,
There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs can fluctuate
Executive Directors may be eligible to receive overseas relocation
depending on changes in provider cost and individual circumstances.
allowances and international transfer-related benefits when required.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in all-employee Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the Annual report
share schemes (e.g. Share Save and Share Reward Plan), under on remuneration.
which they are subject to the same terms as all other employees. Performance measures
In order to recognise the high business travel requirements of the None.
Pension No material change
Purpose and link to strategy UK:
Pension arrangements provide a competitive level of retirement – 20% of salary contribution to defined contribution plan and further
income. 5% in matched contributions subject to any relevant cap and in
line with implementation principles for other members of the plan;
Operation
or
Pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the plans
operated in the country in which the individual is likely to retire. Where – 20% of salary cash payment in lieu of pension contribution.
the individual chooses not to become a member of the pension plan, US:
cash in lieu of the relevant pension contribution is paid instead. Eligible for the same benefits as other US senior executives:
Executive Directors in the UK are entitled either to join the defined – Cash Balance Pension Plan and Supplemental Cash Balance
contribution pension plan or to receive a cash payment in lieu of Pension Plan, including Executive Pension Credit, provide maximum
pension contribution. contribution of 38% of base salary across all pension plans.
Where an individual is a member of a GSK legacy defined benefit – GSK 401(k) plan (formerly the US Retirement Savings Plan) and
plan, a defined contribution plan or an alternative pension plan the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan with core contributions
arrangement and is subsequently appointed to the Board, he or she of 2% of salary and bonus and matched contributions of 4% of
may remain a member of that plan. salary and bonus .
Opportunity Global:
The policy for all current Executive Directors and new external – Eligible for appropriate equivalent arrangement not in excess of the
recruits is: US/UK arrangements.
Performance measures
None.139 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Future policy table continued
Annual bonus Change
Purpose and link to strategy The Committee may apply judgement in making appropriate
To incentivise and recognise execution of the business strategy adjustments to bonus outcomes to ensure they reflect underlying
on an annual basis. business performance.
Rewards the achievement of stretching annual financial and Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as described on page 140.
strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives.
Opportunity
Operation The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is 200% of
Financial, operational and business targets are set at the start of salary. For threshold performance, the bonus pay-out will be nil.
the year by the Committee and bonus levels are determined by the
For target performance, the bonus payout will be 50% of the
Committee based on performance against those targets.
maximum opportunity.
Individual objectives are set at the start of the year by the Committee
Performance measures
and performance against those objectives is assessed by the
Based on a combination of financial targets and individual/strategic
Committee.
performance objectives, with the majority of the bonus assessed
Executive Directors are required to defer 50% of any bonus earned against the financial measures. The weighting between different
into shares, or ADS as appropriate, for three years. measures will be determined each year according to business
priorities.
Deferred bonus shares are eligible for dividend equivalents up to
the date of vesting. Further details, including the measures to be used in the financial
year, are provided in the Annual report on remuneration.
Selection of annual bonus measures
The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of GSK’s The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal
annual financial and strategic business targets and the delivery of review of performance against stretching financial targets with the
personal objectives. remainder of the bonus subject to a balanced scorecard of strategic
and individual targets which are aligned to the company’s key
objectives for that financial year.
Performance Share Plan (PSP) Change
Purpose and link to strategy Clawback and/or malus provisions apply as described on page 140.
To incentivise and recognise delivery of the longer term business
Opportunity
priorities, financial growth and increases in shareholder value
The normal maximum award limits that may be granted under the
compared to other pharmaceutical companies.
PSP to an individual in any one year are set out in the table below:
In addition, to provide alignment with shareholder interests, a
In 2017, the award to the CEO will be 550% of salary.
retention element, to encourage long-term shareholding and
% of salary
discourage excessive risk taking.
CEO 650
Operation CFO 400
Conditional awards are made annually with vesting dependent on
Other Executive Directors 500
the achievement of performance conditions over three years and
are subject to an additional two-year holding period. Performance measures
Based on a combination of financial, share price related and
Awards are eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of
strategic performance conditions which are aligned to the
vesting and release.
company’s strategic plan. Up to 30% of awards will vest at
The Committee may adjust the formulaic vesting outcome (either threshold performance. Further details, including the performance
up or down) to ensure that the overall outcome reflects underlying targets attached to the PSP in respect of each year, are provided
business performance over the vesting period. in the Annual report on remuneration.
Selection of long-term incentive measures
The Committee selects performance measures which focus Any major adjustment in the calculation of performance measures will
Executive Directors’ long-term remuneration on the delivery of GSK’s be disclosed to shareholders on vesting. The Chairman of the Audit
key strategic priorities over the longer term. In addition to setting and Risk Committee and other members, who are also members of
robust targets, the Committee has implemented a number of the Remuneration Committee, provide input on the Audit & Risk
safeguards to ensure the targets are met in a sustainable way and Committee’s review of the Group’s performance and oversight of
performance reflects genuine achievement against targets and any risk factors relevant to remuneration decisions.
therefore represents the delivery of value for shareholders.
Details of the rationale behind the performance measures selected
For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition or and how they are calculated are set out in the Annual report on
divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the event. remuneration.140 GSK Annual Report 2016
Remuneration policy report continued
Future policy table continued
Legacy arrangements – Deferred Annual Bonus Plan (DABP) Removed from 2017 onwards
Purpose Performance measures
To incentivise and recognise delivery of longer term business Outstanding matching awards are subject to the same measures as
priorities and to provide alignment with shareholder interests and awards made under the PSP in any given year.
encourage long-term shareholding.
Further details of outstanding awards are provided on pages 122
Operation and maximum opportunity and 135 of the Annual report on remuneration. No matching awards
For bonus payments up to and including the bonus in respect will be made under the DABP in respect of bonus from 2017
of 2016, Executive Directors were required to defer 25% of onwards.
any bonus earned into shares for three years. They could also
voluntarily defer up to an additional 25% of any bonus earned.
These deferred shares were matched up to a maximum of 1:1 subject
to the achievement of performance conditions over three years.
Matching awards were conditional shares or nil-cost options and
eligible for dividend equivalents.
Share Ownership Requirements Increase in requirement for CEO
To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of Executive Directors are also required to continue to satisfy these
shareholders, they are required to build and maintain significant requirements for a minimum of 12 months following retirement from
holdings of shares in GSK over time. The requirements for each the company.
Executive Director are as follows:
% salary
CEO 650
Other Executive Directors 300
Clawback and malus No change
In the event of a ‘triggering event’ (e.g. significant misconduct by way In respect of each financial year, the Remuneration Committee will
of violation of regulation, law, or a significant GSK policy, such as the disclose whether it (or the Recoupment Committee) has exercised
Code of Conduct), the company will have the ability to claw back up clawback or malus. Disclosure will only be made when the matter has
to three years’ annual and deferred bonuses as well as vested and been subject to public reports of misconduct, where it has been fully
unvested LTIs. In addition, if a participant in the new 2017 PSP or resolved, where it is legally permissible to disclose and where it can
DABP, which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2017 AGM, be made without unduly prejudicing the company and therefore
is subject to an investigation, then the vesting of their awards may be shareholders.
delayed until the outcome of that investigation.
Additionally, where there has been continuity of responsibility
A separate Recoupment Committee has been established to between initiation of an adverse event and its emergence as a
investigate relevant claims of misconduct. The Recoupment problem, the adverse event should be taken into account in
Committee exercises this authority for the wider employee base. assessing annual bonus awards and LTI vesting levels in the year
It comprises of senior executives with relevant oversight and the problem is identified and for future periods. The Remuneration
appropriate experience, including the Senior Vice President, Global Committee (or Recoupment Committee) may make appropriate
Ethics and Compliance, and the Senior Vice President & General adjustments to individual annual bonuses as well as grant and
Counsel. vesting levels of LTI awards to reflect this.141 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Approach to recruitment remuneration
The Committee determines the remuneration package of new The Committee is mindful of the sensitivity relating to recruitment
Executive Directors on a case-by-case basis depending on the packages and, in particular, the ‘buying out’ of rights relating to
role, the market from which they will operate and their experience. previous employment. It will therefore seek to minimise such
Total remuneration levels will be set by reference to a relevant pay arrangements. However, in certain circumstances, to enable the
comparator group and, where appropriate, will allow for future recruitment of exceptional talent, the Committee may determine
development in the role. that such arrangements are in the best interests of the company
and its shareholders. Such arrangements will, where possible,
It is expected that new Executive Directors will participate in short
be on a like-for-like basis with the forfeited remuneration terms.
and long-term incentive plans on the same basis as existing directors.
Arrangements will therefore vary depending on the plans and
However, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee reserves the
arrangements put in place by the previous employer and may be
flexibility to set the incentive limit for a new Executive Director at up
in the form of cash or shares and may or may not be subject to
to an additional 50% of the existing limits.
performance conditions. Explanations will be provided where
The Committee retains this flexibility in recognition of the high payments are made as compensation for previous remuneration
levels of variable pay in GSK’s global pharmaceutical competitors. forfeited.
However, the Committee will only use this flexibility when it is
The remuneration arrangements for any newly appointed Executive
considered to be in the best interests of the company and its
Director will be disclosed as soon as practicable after the
investors.
appointment.
Pension arrangements for any external recruit as an Executive
Director will be as set out in the Remuneration policy table on The following policy and principles apply to the roles of Chairman
page 138. and Non-Executive Director.
Other benefits will be provided in line with the policy for existing Chairman
Executive Directors. Fees will be set at a level that is competitive with those paid by
other companies of equivalent size and complexity. Fees will be
Where required to meet business needs, relocation support
paid partly in shares.
will be provided in line with company policy.
For any internal appointments, entitlements under existing Non-Executive Directors
remuneration elements will continue, including pension Fee levels for new Non-Executive Directors will be set on the
entitlements and any outstanding awards. However, where not same basis as for existing Non-Executive Directors of the company.
already the case, internal appointments will be required to move Subject to local laws and regulations, fees will be paid partly in
to Executive Director contractual terms, including termination shares.
provisions. In the event of a Non-Executive Director with a different role and
responsibilities being appointed, fee levels will be benchmarked and
set by reference to comparable roles in companies of equivalent size
and complexity.142 GSK Annual Report 2016
Remuneration policy report continued
Loss of office payment policy
The company does not have a policy of fixed term contracts. Generally, Notice period on termination by the employing company or the
contracts for new appointments will expire in line with the applicable Executive Director is 12 calendar months.
policy on retirement age, which since 2009 has been 65.
The ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period (and a
Contracts for existing Executive Directors will expire on the dates shown non-solicitation restriction) on an Executive Director is considered
on page 124. important by the company to have the ability to protect the Group’s
intellectual property and staff. In light of this, the Committee
believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation
in the contracts.
Termination of employment
In the event that an Executive Director’s employment with the company terminates, the following policies and payments will apply.
Element of
Remuneration Loss of office payment policy
Termination payment Termination by notice: 12 months’ annual salary payable on termination by the company (pro-rated where part of the notice period is
worked). No termination payment is made in respect of any part of a notice period that extends beyond the contract expiry date.
A bonus element is not normally included in the termination payment. However, the terms of the contracts seek to balance commercial
imperatives and best practice.
Redundancy: As above, for termination by notice. In the UK, only statutory redundancy pay will apply. In the US, general severance
policy does not apply.
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: No termination payment.
LTI awards PSP and DABP matching awards are governed by the plan rules as approved by shareholders. For awards made prior to the
approval of the 2017 PSP and DABP rules, the following provisions will normally apply:
Termination by notice: Unvested awards will lapse.
Redundancy and retirement: Generally, awards will continue to vest over the original timescales, subject to the original performance
conditions. Awards made in the last 12 months are forfeited.
Death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other reason: Generally, performance will be assessed following the end of the financial
year in which cessation of employment occurs and awards will vest up to 12 months following cessation. Awards may be pro-rated
for time.
For awards made under the approved rules of the 2017 PSP, the following provisions will normally apply:
Termination by notice: Unvested awards will lapse.
Redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other reason: Generally, awards will continue to vest over the
original timescales subject to performance and pro-rated for time.
In the event of a change of control, PSP and DABP matching awards will vest, taking into account performance to date and normally
taking into account the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed. Alternatively, the awards may be exchanged for new
awards.
Annual bonus Termination by notice by individual: If an individual serves notice and the termination date falls before 31 December, the bonus is
forfeited.
Termination by notice by the company, redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury or disability: If the termination date falls
during the financial year, eligible for pro-rated on-target bonus (if employed on 31 December, bonus payable based on actual results).
DABP deferred DABP deferred bonus awards are governed by the plan rules as approved by shareholders. For awards made prior to the approval of
bonus awards the 2017 DABP rules, the following provisions will normally apply:
Termination by notice: Awards will vest in full on the date of termination or original vesting date as determined at the date of grant
Redundancy, retirement, death, ill-health, injury, disability or any other reason: Generally, awards will vest in full on the original
vesting date.
For awards made under the approved rules of the 2017 DABP, the following provisions will normally apply:
Termination for gross misconduct: Generally, unvested awards will lapse
Any other reason: Generally, awards will vest in full on the original vesting date.
In the event of a change of control, awards will vest or may be exchanged for new awards.
Benefits Generally, benefits will continue to apply until the termination date. The Committee may make payments in connection with an existing
legal obligation or in respect of any claim related to the cessation of employment. This may include fees for outplacement assistance,
legal and/or professional advice.
Termination by notice by the company and retirement (US executives): In line with the policy applicable to US senior executives,
the Chairman, Global Vaccines may become eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing medical and dental insurance after
termination/retirement.
Termination by mutual agreement
In certain circumstances, it can be in the best interests of the company for the Board to manage proactively succession planning and the development of the
senior talent pipeline. In such circumstances, the Board may therefore agree that an Executive’s departure will be by mutual agreement. In order for this to apply,
the Committee will need to be satisfied that the Executive has demonstrated performance in line with expectations, where required they should have contributed
to an orderly succession, and they should have completed at least 20 years’ service with the Group on the termination date. In the case of an Executive Director,
they would then be treated as a ‘good leaver’ for the purposes of GSK’s long-term incentive plans. If the termination date falls during the financial year, they
would be eligible for a pro-rated on-target bonus and if they are employed on 31 December, the bonus payable would be based on actual results.143 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Loss of office payment policy continued
The Committee does not anticipate the exercise of discretion Where an Executive Director leaves the company, the Committee
provided by the PSP and DABP plan rules in respect of termination will carry out an assessment of the individual’s performance and
payments in a manner which would benefit an Executive Director. conduct over the time in role. If it is determined that the individual’s
However, there may be unforeseen circumstances where this is in performance or conduct was contrary to the legitimate expectations
the best interests of the company and its shareholders. Where it of the company, the Committee reserves the right to apply
is necessary to exercise discretion, explanations will be provided. appropriate mechanisms such as clawback or reduction or lapsing
of outstanding incentive awards (malus), to ensure that any
termination payments are in the best interests of the company
and its shareholders (see page 140).
Differences between remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other employees
When setting remuneration levels for the Executive Directors, – Salary and benefits (including pension) are tailored to the local
the Committee considers the prevailing market conditions, market.
the competitive environment (through comparison with the
– The annual bonus plan applies to the wider employee population
remuneration of executives at companies of similar size, complexity
and is based on business and individual performance.
and international reach) and the positioning and relativities of pay
and employment conditions across the broader GSK workforce. – A combination of performance-related and restricted share plans
apply to the wider employee population.
In particular, the Committee considers the range of base salary rises
for the workforces of those parts of GSK where the Executive – All-employee share plans are available to employees in the UK,
Directors are employed. This is considered to be the most relevant including the HM Revenue & Customs approved UK Share Save
comparison as these populations reflect most closely the economic and Share Reward Plans.
environments encountered by the individuals. While employees are not formally consulted in respect of the
The same principles apply to the Remuneration policy for Executive Remuneration policy, the company conducts regular employee
Directors and other employees although the remuneration offered surveys which include feedback on remuneration matters.
to Executive Directors under this policy has a stronger emphasis In the wider organisation, we have aligned our performance
on performance-related pay than that offered to other employees and reward systems with our values and since 2014, our
of the Group. performance system formally evaluates employees on both ‘what’
they need to do and ‘how’ they do it. Also, for our most senior
people we dis-incentivise unethical working practices using a
clawback mechanism that allows us to recover performance-
related pay.144 GSK Annual Report 2016
Remuneration policy report continued
Scenarios for future total remuneration
The charts opposite provide illustrations of the future total
remuneration for each of the Executive Directors in respect of the Emma Walmsley, new CEO (£000)
remuneration opportunity granted to each of them in 2017 under the
policy. A range of potential outcomes is provided for each Executive
10,000
Director and the underlying assumptions are set out below. £8.85m
All scenarios: 62%
8,000
– 2017 base salary has been used.
– 2016 benefits and pension figures have been used for the CFO, 6,000
i.e. based on actual amounts received in 2016 in respect of the
ongoing policy. As the new CEO and President, R&D were not in 4,000 £3.80m
role during 2016, the benefits value for each is based on the value 39% 23%
of benefits (excluding pensions) provided in 2016 to the current 2,000 £1.33m 26%
CEO and CFO respectively. 100% 35% 15%
– The amounts shown under value of PSP awards are based on 0
Fixed Expected Maximum
the relevant multiples for 2017. They do not include amounts in
respect of dividends reinvested and do not factor in changes to
share price over the vesting period. Simon Dingemans, CFO (£000)
Fixed:
– None of the pay for performance (annual bonus and PSP) would 6,000 £5.52m
be payable. 55%
Expected: 4,000
– For the annual bonus, it is assumed that target performance is £2.56m
achieved. 2,000 31% 27%
£1.0m 30%
– For the PSP awards, threshold levels of vesting are assumed. 100% 39% 18%
0
Maximum: Fixed Expected Maximum
– It is assumed that the annual bonus would be payable at the
maximum level and that the awards under the PSP would vest
Dr Patrick Vallance, President, R&D (£000)
in full.
8,000
£6.49m
6,000 60%
4,000
£2.85m
2,000 37% 24%
£1.03m 27%
100% 36% 16%
0
Fixed Expected Maximum
Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP145 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Non-Executive Director remuneration policy 2017
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation
There is no formal maximum. However, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference
to a review of the Chairman’s performance and independently sourced market data.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board
on the fees payable to the Chairman. The Chairman does not participate in discussions in
To provide an inclusive flat rate fee that is respect of his fees.
competitive with those paid by other
Fees can be paid in a combination of cash and/or GSK shares or ADS via the Non-Executive
companies of equivalent size and complexity
Directors’ Share Allocation Plan.
subject to the limits contained
Chairman’s fees in GSK’s Articles of Association.
As with the Chairman, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference to independently
sourced data.
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the
Board on the fees payable to the company’s Non-Executive Directors.
A minimum of 25% is delivered in the form of GSK shares or ADS. Using the Non-Executive
Directors’ Share Allocation Plan which delivers the shares or ADS to the Non-Executive
Basic fees As above Director following retirement from the Board.
To compensate Non-Executive Directors
(other than the Chairman) for taking on
Supplemental additional Board responsibilities or Additional fees for Committee Chairmen, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director,
fees undertaking intercontinental travel. Science and Medical Experts and intercontinental travel.
Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the normal course of
business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other GSK-hosted
events. For overseas-based Non-Executive Directors, this includes travel to meetings in the
UK. In the event it is necessary for business purposes, whilst not normal practice, Non-
Executive Directors may be accompanied by their spouse or partner to these meetings or
events. The costs associated with the above are all met by the company and, in some
To facilitate execution of responsibilities and instances, they are deemed to be taxable and therefore treated as benefits for the Non-
Benefits duties required by the role. Executive Director.146 GSK Annual Report 2016
Remuneration policy report continued
Operation and scope of Remuneration policy
The proposed Remuneration policy (Policy) is set out on pages 138 Performance Share Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Plan awards
to 146 of the 2016 Annual Report and it is intended that the Policy are subject to the terms of the relevant plan rules under which the
for GSK’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors will apply from award has been granted. The Committee may adjust or amend
the close of the company’s Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2017 awards only in accordance with the provisions of the plan rules.
after it has been submitted by the Committee for approval by This includes making adjustments to reflect one-off corporate
shareholders. events, such as a change in the company’s capital structure.
The Committee has written this Policy principally in relation to the The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy
remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors, whilst taking set out in this report (for regulatory, exchange control, tax or
into account the possible recruitment of a replacement or an administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation)
additional Executive Director during the operation of this Policy. without obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments.
The Committee intends this Policy to operate for the period set out
Statement of consideration of shareholder views
above in its entirety. However, it may after due consideration, seek
The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and
to change the Policy during this period, but only if it believes it is
holds annual meetings with GSK’s largest investors to discuss and
appropriate to do so for the long-term success of the company,
take feedback on its Remuneration Policy and governance matters.
after consultation with shareholders and having sought shareholder
approval at a general meeting. The annual meetings were held in December 2016, at which Urs
Rohner, the Committee Chairman, shared updates on remuneration
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration
matters in the last 12 months and proposals for 2017 onwards.
payments and/or payments for loss of office (including exercising
Further shareholder consultations were carried out in February
any discretions available to it in connection with such payments)
and March 2017 by the Committee Chairman on the proposed
notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out
Remuneration policy. The Committee took into account the feedback
above where the terms of the payment were agreed:
from shareholders in determining the Policy which shareholders are
(i) before the AGM on 7 May 2014 (the date the company’s first being asked to approve at the AGM on 4 May 2017.
shareholder-approved Directors’ Remuneration Policy came into
effect);
(ii) before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the
terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved
Remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed; or
(iii) at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the
company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was
not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the
company. For these purposes ‘payments’ includes the Committee
satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an
award over shares or ADS, the terms of the payment are ‘agreed’
at the time the award is granted.
Basis of preparation
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
(Amendment) Regulations 2013 (the Regulations). In accordance
with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report on
Remuneration are subject to audit: total remuneration figures for
Executive Directors including further details for each element of
remuneration (salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long-term
incentive awards); Non-Executive Directors’ fees and emoluments
received in the year; Directors’ interests in shares, including interests
in GSK share plans; payments to past Directors; payments for loss of
office; and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which the
opinion thereon is expressed on page 156. The remaining sections
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report are not subject to audit nor
are the pages referred to from within the audited sections.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the
Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:
Urs Rohner
Remuneration Committee Chairman
13 March 2017147 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial
statements
In this section
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 148
Independent Auditors’ report 149
Financial statements 158
Notes to the financial statements 162
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP 232148 GSK Annual Report 2016
Directors’ statement of responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, – the Strategic report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
the Remuneration report and the Group financial statements which represent the management report, include a fair review of
in accordance with applicable law and regulations. the development and performance of the business and the position
of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial
uncertainties that it faces.
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance Disclosure of information to auditors
with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each
by the European Union. In preparing the Group financial statements, confirmed that:
the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS as issued by the
– so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Under company
of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state – he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
of affairs of the Group and its profit or loss for that period. as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are
of that information.
required to:
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
consistently;
Going concern basis
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are
Pages 53 to 78 contain information on the performance of the
reasonable and prudent;
Group, its financial position, cash flows, net debt position and
– state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as borrowing facilities. Further information, including Treasury risk
adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the hedging activities, is given in Note 42 to the financial statements,
Group financial statements; and ‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. Having assessed the
principal risks and other matters considered in connection with the
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless
viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt
it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial
business.
statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
Internal control
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that
in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of
the Group financial statements and the Remuneration report comply
internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by
with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group
of Directors.
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities. The UK Corporate Governance Code
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December
and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
2016, comprising principal statements and supporting notes,
Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described
are set out in ‘Financial statements’ on pages 158 to 231 of this
in the Corporate Governance section on pages 80 to 110. The Board
report. The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group
further considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair,
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report
balanced and understandable, and provides the information
on pages 149 to 157.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and
The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December performance, business model and strategy.
2016 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules,
printed form and made available on our website. The Directors are
the auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
in relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code
on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
which are specified for their review.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to
the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable Annual Report
legislation may be different. The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016,
comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration report,
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed
the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has
in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2016
been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge:
– the Group financial statements, which have been prepared
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS Philip Hampton
as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, Chairman
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and
13 March 2017149 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Independent Auditors’ report
Investor information
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the Group financial statements
Our opinion Our other areas of focus have been refined to reflect developments
In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s Group financial statements: in the Group’s business including continued competitive pricing
pressure and discounting in the US and the resolution of the
– give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s affairs at 31
investigation into the Group’s commercial practices by the SEC-DoJ.
December 2016 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then
ended; Overview
– have been properly prepared in accordance with International Materiality
Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) as adopted by the – Overall group materiality: £260 million which represents 4%
European Union; and of profit before tax adding back certain items (‘adjusted profit
before tax’) (2015 – £200 million).
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Audit scope
– Our audit included full scope audits of 15 reporting components
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB
with specific audit procedures performed at a further 45 reporting
As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group,
components.
in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union,
has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting – Taken together, the components at which audit work was
Standards Board (IASB). performed accounted for 71% of consolidated revenue, 71% of
consolidated profit before tax and 73% of adjusted profit before
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as
tax and covered all components that individually contributed more
issued by the IASB.
than 2% of revenue, profit before tax and adjusted profit before tax.
What we have audited
Areas of focus
The Group financial statements, included within the Annual Report,
– Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US
comprise:
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business
– the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2016;
– Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets
– the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement
– Acquisition-related liabilities
of comprehensive income for the year then ended;
– Uncertain tax positions
– the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended;
– Litigation
– the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then
ended; and – Finance transformation
– the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a – Investigations into the Group’s commercial practices
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory The scope of our audit and our areas of focus
information. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (‘ISAs (UK & Ireland)’).
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements. We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In
identified as audited. particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting
preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law. events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also
addressed the risk of management override of internal controls,
Our audit approach
including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the
Context directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to
The context of our audit is set by the Group’s activities in 2016. fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition. Procedures
Having reduced the extent of finance transformation in 2015 because designed and executed to address these risks included use of data
of the completion of the three-part transaction with Novartis, the enabled auditing techniques to test journal entries and post-close
Group increased the pace of change in 2016, with a number of adjustments, testing and evaluating management’s key accounting
markets migrating onto the Group’s common enterprise-wide estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off
resource planning platforms (‘ERP’) or moving financial transaction procedures to verify proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and
processing and accounting services to business process testing the existence and accuracy of revenue transactions. In
outsourcing locations (‘BPO’) and to in-house business service addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our
centres (‘BSC’) as well as establishing two new BPOs in Europe and audit work each year.
one in Asia. The Group also migrated to a new consolidation platform
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on
(BISON) and implemented a new system for tracking intercompany
our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are
inventory transfers and calculating intra-group unrealised profit in
identified as areas of focus in the table below. We have also set out
inventory (IPT). As a result, transformation of the Group’s finance
how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order
processes is included as an area of focus in our 2016 report.
to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole and
In addition, the Group has made certain changes in 2016 to its any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be
agreements with Pfizer and Shionogi in respect of the non-controlling read in this context. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by
interest each holds in ViiV Healthcare. These changes, together with our audit.
remeasurements to ViiV and other acquisition-related liabilities, had a
significant impact on the corresponding accounting and valuation
judgements and have therefore also been included as an area of focus.150 GSK Annual Report 2016
Independent Auditors’ report continued
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the US We obtained management’s calculations for accruals under applicable
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business schemes and validated the assumptions used by reference to the
Refer to notes 3 and 27 in the Group financial statements. Group’s stated commercial policies, the terms of the applicable
contracts, third party data related to patient enrolment in US
The Group makes sales to various customers in the US that fall
government funded benefit schemes and historical levels of product
under certain commercial and government mandated contracts
returns.
and reimbursement arrangements, of which the most significant
are Medicaid and Medicare. The Group also provides a right of We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates,
return to its customers for certain products. discounts, allowances and returns levels (where relevant) and to current
payment trends. We also considered the historical accuracy of the
These arrangements result in deductions to gross sales in arriving
Group’s estimates in previous years, and the impact of competitive
at turnover and give rise to obligations for the Group to provide
pricing pressures and greater discounting in the US market more
customers with rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of
generally. We formed an independent expectation of the largest
return, which for unsettled amounts are recognised as an accrual.
elements of the accrual at 31 December 2016 using third party data
We focused on this area because rebates, discounts, allowances and compared this expectation to the actual accrual recognised by the
and returns arrangements are complex and because establishing Group.
an appropriate accrual requires significant judgement and
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material
estimation by the directors. This judgement is particularly complex
differences between our independent expectations and the accrual.
in a US healthcare environment in which competitive pricing
pressure and product discounting are growing trends. The
directors have determined an accrual of £2,218 million to be
necessary at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015 – £1,671
million). The increase in the accrual in 2016 is primarily due to
foreign exchange rate impacts. Two other factors driving the
increased accrual were higher sales, as well as greater discounts
due to competitive pressures, particularly in relation to Advair.
Carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets Deploying our valuations specialists, we obtained the Group’s
Refer to notes 3, 18 and 19 in the Group financial impairment analyses and tested the reasonableness of key
statements. assumptions, including profit and cash flow growth or decline,
terminal values, the impact of the expiry of patents, potential product
The Group has £17.8 billion of intangible assets (31 December
obsolescence and the selection of discount rates. We challenged
2015 – £16.0 billion), comprising significant licences, patents
management to substantiate its assumptions, including comparing
and acquired trademarks (and excluding computer software). In
relevant assumptions to industry and economic forecasts.
addition, the Group has £6.0 billion of goodwill at 31 December
2016 (31 December 2015 – £5.2 billion). We interrogated the integrity of supporting calculations and we
corroborated certain information with third party sources, including
The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are
expectations of performance of certain assets and components of
contingent on future cash flows and there is a risk that the assets
the business. We obtained and evaluated management’s sensitivity
will be impaired if these cash flows do not meet the Group’s
analyses to ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes in
expectations. The impairment reviews performed by the Group
key assumptions and we performed our own independent sensitivity
contained a number of significant judgements and estimates
calculations to quantify the downside changes to management’s
including revenue growth, the success of new product launches,
models required to result in impairment.
genericisation of existing products following patent expiry, profit
margins, cash conversion, terminal values and discount rate. As a result of our work, we determined that the impairment charge of
Changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment to £22 million recorded for intangible assets was appropriate. For those
the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill. intangible assets, including goodwill, where management determined
that no impairment was required, we found that these judgements were
During the year, the Group changed its basis of aggregating
supported by reasonable assumptions which would require
individual cash generating units (‘CGUs’) for goodwill impairment
unreasonable downside changes before any additional material
testing purposes now comprising Global Pharmaceuticals,
impairment was necessary.
Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines. This exercise was
undertaken to align to the Group’s operating segments, which In respect of the aggregation of CGUs, we confirmed that this is
resulted in the aggregation of Pharmaceuticals and ViiV the lowest level at which management monitors goodwill for internal
Healthcare. purposes and that it is consistent with the way in which the Group’s
results are reported to the Board and the Corporate Executive Team.
We focused on intangible assets acquired through historical
acquisitions, as these are the most significant individually and in
aggregate, and a number have indefinite lives, including the most
significant of the intangible assets acquired from Novartis in 2015.
The Group has also recognised goodwill from a number of its
acquisitions, including the three-part transaction with Novartis.151 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Acquisition-related liabilities We deployed our valuations specialists in evaluating certain key
Refer to notes 3, 27, 30, 38, 39 and 42 in the Group financial assumptions, including growth projections and discount rate as well as
statements. the integrity and mechanical accuracy of each of management’s valuation
models. We considered whether reasonably possible changes would have
In recent years, the Group has completed a number of significant
a significant impact on the value recorded. Certain procedures are specific
transactions, including:
to individual liabilities and included the following:
– The three-part transaction with Novartis in 2015;
– Consumer Healthcare put option: The redemption price will contractually
– The establishment of ViiV Healthcare in 2009; and be based on a multiple (to be agreed between GSK and Novartis) of
– The acquisition by ViiV Healthcare of the remaining 50% interest Consumer Healthcare’s revenue and profit. We compared the earnings
in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare in 2012. forecast approved by the Consumer Healthcare board of directors and
used by management in its model to the actual earnings in 2016 and
Each of these transactions resulted in the recognition and
understood the reasons for changes. We also considered the
measurement of material acquisition-related liabilities, which
appropriateness of earnings multiples applied to this forecast and the
necessitate significant management judgement at each balance
assumption about option exercise date;
sheet date.
– ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration: We compared the projections
In addition, during February 2016 the Group waived certain rights it
for the Group’s dolutegravir products to third party expectations of
had in respect of non-controlling interests held by Pfizer and Shionogi
growth and considered the potential upside and downside impact of
in ViiV Healthcare and the terms of the arrangement with Shionogi
products launched and expected to be launched by the Group’s
were amended again in December 2016.
competitors; and
The most significant of the acquisition-related liabilities are outlined – ViiV Healthcare put options: We obtained and reviewed the written
below: agreements between the Group and each of Pfizer and Shionogi. Certain
– Consumer Healthcare put option: The Group recorded a liability assumptions related to forecast revenue from dolutegravir products used
for the present value of the expected redemption price of a written in the valuation of these liabilities are consistent with the ViiV Healthcare
put option over Novartis’ non-controlling interest in Consumer contingent consideration. For other components of the valuation, we
Healthcare. At 31 December 2016, this liability had a carrying considered the appropriateness of the assumptions made about forecast
value of £7,420 million (2015 – £6,287 million); growth rates and margins by reference to historical performance and to
Board approved budgets and third party forecast data.
– ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration: On acquisition of the
remaining 50% interest in the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture Each of these three acquisition-related liabilities is subject to significant
in 2012, £659 million was recorded as contingent consideration. estimation uncertainty and the range of possible outcomes is very broad.
This represented the fair value of expected payments to be made However, we are comfortable that the value of each liability at 31 December
to Shionogi, contingent on future sales of dolutegravir products. 2016 is reasonable and reflects management’s best estimates at this time.
This liability is required to be re-measured to its fair value at each We reviewed the disclosures about each acquisition-related liability,
reporting date. Since initial recognition, it has been increased in including management’s commentary about estimation uncertainty and the
response to actual and future sales significantly exceeding original range of alternative outcomes. We are satisfied that these disclosures are
expectations including the impact of changes in foreign exchange appropriate.
rates. At 31 December 2016, the liability was £5,304 million
(2015 – £3,409 million); and
– ViiV Healthcare put options: In 2009 and 2012, both Pfizer and
Shionogi were granted written put options by the Group that
enabled each to put its non-controlling interest back to the Group
in the future. Up to and including 31 December 2015, no financial
liabilities were recorded for these two options as each arrangement
contained clauses that enabled the Group to avoid acquiring these
interests if certain conditions were met. In February 2016, the
Group unilaterally waived certain of its rights. As a result, liabilities
with an aggregate value of £2,172 million were recognised. In
December 2016, agreement was reached with Shionogi, whereby
it agreed to forego its rights to exercise its written put option. As
a result, the Group’s associated liability of £1,244 million was de
recognised during December 2016. At 31 December 2016, the
liability in respect of Pfizer’s written put option had a carrying value
of £1,319 million.
In addition to these liabilities, the Group has recorded certain
other acquisition-related liabilities at 31 December 2016, including
£545 million in relation to contingent consideration payable on the
acquisition of Novartis’ Vaccines business in 2015.
We focused on this area as the carrying value of each of the financial
liabilities is material and is determined by management judgements
and estimates, including projections of future sales of products, the
potential impact of competitor products and the delivery of anticipated
synergies. In addition, each valuation is sensitive to changes in other
assumptions, including discount rates and tax rates.152 GSK Annual Report 2016
Independent Auditors’ report continued
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Uncertain tax positions In conjunction with our UK, US, international tax and transfer pricing
Refer to Notes 3 and 14 in the Group financial statements. specialists, we evaluated and challenged management’s judgements
in respect of estimates of tax exposures and contingencies in order
The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment
to assess the adequacy of the Group’s tax provisions. This included
and there are open tax and transfer pricing matters with UK and
obtaining and evaluating certain third party tax opinions that the Group
overseas tax authorities. In addition, from time to time the Group
has obtained to assess the appropriateness of any assumptions used.
enters into transactions with complicated accounting and tax
consequences, including the three-part transaction with Novartis In understanding and evaluating management’s judgements, we
in 2015. Judgement is required in assessing the level of provisions considered the status of recent and current tax authority audits and
required in respect of uncertain tax positions. At 31 December enquiries, the outturn of previous claims, judgemental positions taken
2016, the Group has recorded provisions of £1,892 million in in tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax
respect of uncertain tax positions (2015 – £1,687 million). environment. We noted that the assumptions and judgements that are
required to formulate the provisions mean that the range of possible
outcomes is broad. However, based on the evidence obtained we
considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context
of the Group financial statements taken as a whole. We considered
management’s disclosures in this regard and we agree with
management’s view that a material change to the Group’s estimates
of tax exposures is not expected within the next 12 months.
Litigation We discussed the status of significant known actual and potential
Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 46 in the Group financial litigation with in-house legal counsel. We obtained and substantively
statements. tested evidence to support the decisions and rationale for provisions
held or the decisions not to record provisions, including correspondence
The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases
with legal counsel. We also monitored and considered external
inherent litigation risk. The Group is engaged in a number of legal
information sources to identify potential legal actions.
actions, including product liability, anti-trust and related private
litigation, of which the most significant are disclosed in Notes 29 We developed an independent expectation of the litigation provisions
and 46. based on product litigation history and other available evidence to
challenge the valuation and completeness of the provisions recognised
We focused on this area as the eventual outcome of claims is
by the Group. We obtained confirmations from external legal counsel
uncertain and the positions taken by the directors are based on
to confirm our understanding of settled and outstanding litigation
the application of material judgement and estimation. Accordingly,
and asserted claims. We evaluated significant adjustments to legal
unexpected adverse outcomes could significantly impact the
provisions recorded during the year to determine if they were indicative
Group’s reported profit and balance sheet position.
of management bias.
At 31 December 2016, the Group held provisions of £344 million
As disclosed in Notes 29 and 46 to the Group financial statements,
in respect of legal actions (31 December 2015 – £352 million).
the eventual outcome of legal proceedings is dependent on the
outcome of future events and the position taken by the Group is
inherently judgemental. We found in the context of the Group financial
statements taken as a whole that the judgements made by management
were reasonable and the disclosures made in respect of these
provisions and contingent liabilities were appropriate.153 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus
Finance transformation We centrally managed the work performed by component audit teams at
The Group continues to rationalise and simplify its finance BPOs and BSCs, which consisted of controls and substantive testing,
processes including the roll-out of an enterprise-wide resource and we conducted oversight visits to key BSC and BPO sites in Group
planning system (ERP) and migrations of accounting services audit scope (namely India, Malaysia, Romania, the US and the UK) to
to in-house business service centres (BSCs) and to third party direct the work performed.
business process outsourcing locations (BPOs). In addition,
We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of
the Group migrated onto new platforms for consolidation and
key automated and manual controls both before and after the migration
for tracking intercompany inventory transfers and calculating
to the centralised processing environment, including IT general controls
intra-group unrealised profit in inventory in 2016.
and controls in respect of data migration between ERP systems.
These changes represent a financial reporting risk while migrations We also substantively tested the accuracy and completeness of data
are happening as controls and processes that have been migration into the new ERP along with the controls over this process
established and embedded over a number of years are updated and we did not note any significant exceptions. Similar procedures were
and migrated into a new environment. There is an increased risk performed for the migrations onto the consolidation and intercompany
of breakdown in internal financial controls during the transition and profit tracking systems. In respect of the latter, because of the
an increased risk of inaccurate or incomplete migration of financial significance of the inter-company profit in inventory adjustment we
data, which would in turn increase risk of material misstatements performed detailed testing of the calculation at a component and Group
to the Group financial statements. level, supported by validation of key manual controls over this process.
We did not note any significant or unresolved exceptions in our testing.
Investigations into the Group’s commercial practices We met with the directors, management and in-house legal counsel
Refer to Notes 3, 29 and 46 in the Group financial and spoke with the Group’s external advisors to assess the risk of
statements. occurrence of inappropriate activities, the status of ongoing
investigations and the potential for further fines and penalties.
The SEC-DoJ investigation into the Group’s commercial practices
This included understanding and evaluating the Group’s internal
was concluded in September 2016, resulting in the Group paying
investigations processes, which assess risks and allegations reported
a penalty of $20 million. The Group remains subject to an ongoing
through various channels including whistle-blowing hotlines. We also
investigation by the SFO in the UK. At 31 December 2016, the
evaluated the ongoing enhancements and changes that have been
Group concluded that it does not have sufficient clarity on the
made to other control processes and business practices in recent years.
likely timing of the completion of this investigation nor is it able
to make a sufficiently reliable estimate of any fine or penalty Deploying our forensic specialists, we assessed the scope and findings
that the SFO might impose on the Group on completion of of the investigative work performed by the Group as well as the risk
its investigation. As a result, the Group has stated in Note 46 assessment exercise that management has performed into third party
that it is unable to recognise a provision for its estimate of the interaction and engagement more broadly. We used the output of this
eventual outcome. assessment to instruct ten component teams (including certain markets
not otherwise included in Group audit scope) to undertake risk-focused
In addition, the Group continues to carry out its own investigations
audit procedures to address the audit risk that the Group financial
in a number markets to ascertain whether inappropriate
statements might be materially misstated due to the potential financial
commercial practices may have taken place.
implications of alleged illegal acts.
We focused on the following risks, which might have a material
In respect of the SEC-DoJ investigation, we verified the settlement
impact on the Group’s financial statements:
agreement and payment. In respect of the SFO investigation, we
– That a fine and penalty might be forthcoming in respect of independently circularised external legal counsel engaged by the Group
ongoing investigation into the Group’s commercial practices to obtain its views about the status of the investigation and to ascertain
by the SFO, which could give rise to the need for a material the reasonableness of management’s assertions in respect of the likely
provision; and outcome.
– That inappropriate activities have occurred, which could
Based on these procedures, we were satisfied with the Group’s
also give rise to material fines or penalties or result in asset
provisioning decisions at 31 December 2016 and with the adequacy
impairment.
of the disclosures given the status of investigations.154 GSK Annual Report 2016
Independent Auditors’ report continued
Report on the Group financial statements continued
How we tailored the audit scope Further specific audit procedures over central functions, the Group
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed consolidation and areas of significant judgement (including taxation,
enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements goodwill, intangible assets, treasury, post-retirement benefits and the
as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the elimination of unrealised intercompany profit in inventory) were
Group, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in directly led by the Group audit team.
which the Group operates.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of over 500 audit work accounted for 71% of consolidated revenue, 71% of
reporting components. We identified 15 reporting components that, consolidated profit before tax and 73% of adjusted profit before tax.
in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information This was before considering the contribution to our audit evidence
due to their size or risk characteristics. This excludes 13 central from performing audit work at the divisional and Group levels,
adjustment entities audited at a Group level. Specific audit including testing of monitoring controls and disaggregated analytical
procedures over significant balances and transactions were review procedures, which covers a significant portion of the Group’s
performed at a further 45 reporting components to give appropriate smaller and lower risk components that were not directly included in
coverage of all material balances. Where these reporting our Group audit scope. In addition, we obtained indirect audit
components are supported by shared financial service centres, evidence over certain out-of-scope components through the
these centres were also included in Group audit scope. None of procedures we undertook at the Group’s shared service centres,
the reporting components not included in our Group audit scope encompassing BPOs and BSCs, and over centralised IT
individually contributed more than 2% to consolidated revenue, infrastructure where these processes are standardised.
profit before tax or adjusted profit before tax.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we
determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit
work at those reporting component units. As a result, 19 overseas
components were visited by senior members of the Group audit
team, including each of the Group’s financially significant
components in the US (which are visited at least annually) as well
as Belgium, Japan, China, Switzerland, Germany, Ireland and Italy.
In addition, we visited four of the overseas shared service centres
supporting reporting components in Group audit scope. For those
components in Group audit scope where a site visit was not
undertaken, our involvement included regular dialogue with our
component teams, review of component auditor work papers and
participation in certain component audit clearance meetings.155 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Report on the Group financial statements continued
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial
statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Overall group materiality £260 million (2015 – £200 million).
How we determined it 4% of profit before tax adding back certain items, including the remeasurement charges
for Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration (£2,162 million) and Vaccines
contingent consideration (£64 million), the re-measurement charges for the Consumer
Healthcare (£1,133 million) and ViiV Healthcare (£567 million) put options, major
restructuring costs (£974 million), legal costs (£162 million) and impairment of intangible
assets (£22 million) and deducting net income relating to the gain on disposal of assets
(£525 million).
Rationale for benchmark applied The Group’s principal measure of earnings comprises core results, which adds back to
statutory results a number of items of income and expenditure including those detailed
above. Management uses this measure as it believes that it eliminates the volatility inherent in
one-off items. We took this measure into account in determining our materiality, except that
we did not adjust profit before tax to add back amortisation of intangible assets and certain
other smaller non-core items as in our view these are recurring items which do not introduce
volatility to the Group’s earnings.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to it misstatements identified during our audit above £10 million
(2015 – £10 million) as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern As noted in the directors’ statement, the directors have concluded
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors’ that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
statement, set out on page 148, in relation to going concern. the Group financial statements. The going concern basis presumes
We have nothing to report having performed our review. that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and
that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are also required to report to you if
the Group financial statements were signed. As part of our audit, we
we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to
have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis is
the directors’ statement about whether they considered it appropriate
appropriate.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group financial
statements. We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to. However, because not all future events or conditions can be
predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Group’s
ability to continue as a going concern.156 GSK Annual Report 2016
Independent Auditors’ report continued
Other required reporting
Consistency of other information and compliance with – the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been
applicable requirements prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are
audit: required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in
– the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report. We have nothing to
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are report in this respect.
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland), we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
– information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions
– materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements; or to report.
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the
course of performing our audit; or
– otherwise misleading.
– the statement given by the directors on page 148, in accordance with provision C.1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance We have no exceptions
Code (the ‘Code’), that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and to report.
provides the information necessary for members to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and
strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
– the section of the Annual Report on page 97, as required by provision C.3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit We have no exceptions
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee. to report.
The directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group
Under ISAs (UK & Ireland) we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to:
– the directors’ confirmation on page 106 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.1 of the Code, that they have We have nothing material to
carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business add or to draw attention to.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
– the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated. We have nothing material to
add or to draw attention to.
– the directors’ explanation on page 56 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C.2.2 of the Code, as to how they We have nothing material to
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be add or to draw attention to.
appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors’ statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group
and the directors’ statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of
making enquiries and considering the directors’ process supporting their statements; checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of
the Code; and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit. We have nothing to
report having performed our review.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Corporate governance statement
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the
if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions
explanations we require for our audit. We have no exceptions to of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report
report arising from this responsibility. having performed our review.
Directors’ remuneration
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report
arising from this responsibility.157 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Responsibilities for the financial statements
and the audit
Our responsibilities and those of the directors – the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
As explained more fully in the directors’ statement of responsibilities by the directors; and
set out on page 148, the directors are responsible for the preparation
– the overall presentation of the financial statements.
of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they
give a true and fair view. We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK &
statements.
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit
for the Company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
procedures or a combination of both.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the
agreed by our prior consent in writing. audited financial statements and to identify any information that is
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
What an audit of financial statements involves
with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and
audit. If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable
or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report. With
assurance that the financial statements are free from material
respect to the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, we consider
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an
whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable
assessment of:
legal requirements.
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group’s
circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately
disclosed;
Other matters
We have reported separately on the parent company financial Notes:
statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December
(a) T he maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline plc
2016.
website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out
The parent company has passed a resolution in accordance with by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters
section 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any
auditor’s name should not be stated. changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since
they were initially presented on the website.
(b) L egislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP other jurisdictions.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London
13 March 2017158 GSK Annual Report 2016
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2016
2016 2015 2014
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 6 27,889 23,923 23,006
Cost of sales (9,290) (8,853) (7,323)
Gross profit 18,599 15,070 15,683
Selling, general and administration (9,366) (9,232) (8,246)
Research and development (3,628) (3,560) (3,450)
Royalty income 398 329 310
Other operating income/(expense) 7 (3,405) 7,715 (700)
Operating profit 8 2,598 10,322 3,597
Finance income 11 72 104 68
Finance expense 12 (736) (757) (727)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 843 –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 13 5 14 30
Profit before taxation 1,939 10,526 2,968
Taxation 14 (877) (2,154) (137)
Profit after taxation for the year 1,062 8,372 2,831
Profit/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 150 (50) 75
Profit attributable to shareholders 912 8,422 2,756
1,062 8,372 2,831
Basic earnings per share (pence) 15 18.8p 174.3p 57.3p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 15 18.6p 172.3p 56.7p
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2016
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Profit for the year 1,062 8,372 2,831
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 34 646 (618) (497)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries 34 – – (219)
Deferred tax on exchange movements – – (2)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 251 416 29
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (91) (78)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (245) (346) (155)
Deferred tax reversed on reclassification of available-for-sale investments 51 36 58
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 2 2 5
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 2 – (1)
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement 1 2 (5)
Share of other comprehensive (expense)/income of associates and joint ventures – (77) 18
708 (676) (847)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests 603 8 16
Remeasurement (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans (475) 261 (1,181)
Tax on remeasurement of defined benefit plans 126 (80) 262
254 189 (903)
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 34 962 (487) (1,750)
Total comprehensive income for the year 2,024 7,885 1,081
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 1,271 7,927 990
Non-controlling interests 753 (42) 91
Total comprehensive income for the year 2,024 7,885 1,081159 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Consolidated balance sheet
Investor information
as at 31 December 2016
2016 2015
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 17 10,808 9,668
Goodwill 18 5,965 5,162
Other intangible assets 19 18,776 16,672
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 263 207
Other investments 21 985 1,255
Deferred tax assets 14 4,374 2,905
Other non-current assets 22 1,199 990
Total non-current assets 42,370 36,859
Current assets
Inventories 23 5,102 4,716
Current tax recoverable 14 226 180
Trade and other receivables 24 6,026 5,615
Derivative financial instruments 42 156 125
Liquid investments 31 89 75
Cash and cash equivalents 25 4,897 5,830
Assets held for sale 26 215 46
Total current assets 16,711 16,587
Total assets 59,081 53,446
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 31 (4,129) (1,308)
Contingent consideration liabilities 39 (561) (306)
Trade and other payables 27 (11,964) (8,885)
Derivative financial instruments 42 (194) (153)
Current tax payable 14 (1,305) (1,421)
Short-term provisions 29 (848) (1,344)
Total current liabilities (19,001) (13,417)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 31 (14,661) (15,324)
Deferred tax liabilities 14 (1,934) (1,522)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 28 (4,090) (3,229)
Other provisions 29 (652) (420)
Contingent consideration liabilities 39 (5,335) (3,549)
Other non-current liabilities 30 (8,445) (7,107)
Total non-current liabilities (35,117) (31,151)
Total liabilities (54,118) (44,568)
Net assets 4,963 8,878
Equity
Share capital 33 1,342 1,340
Share premium account 33 2,954 2,831
Retained earnings 34 (5,392) (1,397)
Other reserves 34 2,220 2,340
Shareholders’ equity 1,124 5,114
Non-controlling interests 3,839 3,764
Total equity 4,963 8,878
The financial statements on pages 158 to 231 were approved by the Board on 13 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Hampton
Chairman160 GSK Annual Report 2016
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Non-controlling Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 1,336 2,595 913 2,153 6,997 815 7,812
Profit for the year – – 2,756 – 2,756 75 2,831
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (1,626) (140) (1,766) 16 (1,750)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 1,130 (140) 990 91 1,081
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (205) (205)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,843) – (3,843) – (3,843)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – (58) – (58) (28) (86)
Forward contract relating to non-controlling interest – – – 21 21 – 21
Ordinary Shares issued 3 164 – – 167 – 167
Ordinary Shares purchased and cancelled or held as – – (238) – (238) – (238)
Treasury shares
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 150 (245) (95) – (95)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (450) 450 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 326 – 326 – 326
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – (4) – (4) – (4)
At 31 December 2014 1,339 2,759 (2,074) 2,239 4,263 673 4,936
Profit/(loss) for the year – – 8,422 – 8,422 (50) 8,372
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – (520) 25 (495) 8 (487)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year – – 7,902 25 7,927 (42) 7,885
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (237) (237)
Dividends to shareholders – – (3,874) – (3,874) – (3,874)
Gains on transfer of net assets into Consumer Healthcare
Joint Venture – – 2,891 – 2,891 – 2,891
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture put option – – (6,204) – (6,204) – (6,204)
Changes in non-controlling interests – – – – – 3,370 3,370
Loss on transfer of equity investment to investment in – – (229) – (229) – (229)
associate
Ordinary Shares issued 1 72 – – 73 – 73
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – – (99) (99) – (99)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (175) 175 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 356 – 356 – 356
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 10 – 10 – 10
At 31 December 2015 1,340 2,831 (1,397) 2,340 5,114 3,764 8,878
Profit for the year – – 912 – 912 150 1,062
Other comprehensive income for the year – – 284 75 359 603 962
Total comprehensive income for the year – – 1,196 75 1,271 753 2,024
Distributions to non-controlling interests – – – – – (534) (534)
Dividends to shareholders – – (4,850) – (4,850) – (4,850)
Recognition of liabilities with non-controlling interests – – (2,013) – (2,013) (159) (2,172)
De-recognition of liabilities with non-controlling interests – – 1,244 – 1,244 – 1,244
Changes in non-controlling interests – – 17 – 17 15 32
Ordinary Shares issued 2 87 – – 89 – 89
Ordinary Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – 36 466 (576) (74) – (74)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (381) 381 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 319 – 319 – 319
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 7 – 7 – 7
At 31 December 2016 1,342 2,954 (5,392) 2,220 1,124 3,839 4,963161 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Consolidated cash flow statement
Investor information
for the year ended 31 December 2016
2016 2015 2014
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Profit after taxation for the year 1,062 8,372 2,831
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating cash flows 36 7,044 (3,741) 3,453
Cash generated from operations 8,106 4,631 6,284
Taxation paid (1,609) (2,062) (1,108)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,497 2,569 5,176
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,543) (1,380) (1,188)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 98 72 39
Purchase of intangible assets (809) (521) (563)
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 283 236 330
Purchase of equity investments (96) (82) (83)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 683 357 205
Contingent consideration paid (73) (338) (3)
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 38 17 (3,203) (101)
Disposal of businesses 38 72 10,246 225
Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 (11) (16) (9)
Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary and interest in associate – 564 1
(Increase)/decrease in liquid investments – (2) 1
Interest received 68 99 63
Dividends from associates, joint ventures and equity investments 42 5 5
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from investing activities (1,269) 6,037 (1,078)
Cash flow from financing activities
Shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (74) (99) (95)
Issue of share capital 33 89 73 167
Purchase of own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares – – (238)
Purchase of non-controlling interests – – (679)
Increase in long-term loans – – 1,960
Increase in short-term loans 1,067 – –
Repayment of short-term loans (919) (2,412) (1,709)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (18) (25) (23)
Interest paid (732) (762) (707)
Dividends paid to shareholders (4,850) (3,874) (3,843)
Distributions to non-controlling interests (534) (237) (205)
Other financing cash flows (421) 233 (13)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (6,392) (7,103) (5,385)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts 37 (1,164) 1,503 (1,287)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 5,486 4,028 5,231
Exchange adjustments 283 (45) 84
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,164) 1,503 (1,287)
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 4,605 5,486 4,028
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents* 4,897 5,830 4,719
Overdrafts* (292) (344) (691)
4,605 5,486 4,028
* Comparative figures for 2014 have been restated, see page 162 for further details.162 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business Accounting principles and policies
GSK is a major global healthcare group which is engaged in the The financial statements have been prepared using the historical
creation and discovery, development, manufacture and marketing of cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain items, as
pharmaceutical products including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) stated in the accounting policies, and on a going concern basis.
medicines and health-related consumer products. GSK’s principal
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
pharmaceutical products include medicines in the following
with the Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board
therapeutic areas: respiratory, anti-virals, central nervous system,
and described in Note 2, ‘Accounting principles and policies’.
cardiovascular and urogenital, metabolic, anti-bacterials,
Information on the application of these accounting policies,
dermatology, rare diseases, immuno-inflammation, vaccines
including areas of estimation and judgement is given in Note 3,
and HIV.
‘Key accounting judgements and estimates’.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management
the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, as adopted
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
by the European Union.
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
The financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Implementation of new accounting standards
Composition of financial statements Following an agenda decision by the IFRS Interpretations Committee
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in Sterling, regarding offsetting and cash pooling arrangements, the Group has
the functional currency of GlaxoSmithKline plc, and in accordance revised its disclosure of its cash pooling arrangements. There is no
with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial statements change to the results or cash flows for the year to 31 December
comprise: 2015 and there was no impact on the balance sheet at 31 December
2015. The impact at 1 January 2015 was to increase both cash and
– Consolidated income statement
cash equivalents and short-term borrowings by £381 million.
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
The amendment to IFRS 11 ‘Joint arrangements’ has been
– Consolidated balance sheet implemented from 1 January 2016. This revision has not had a
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity material impact on the results or financial position of the Group.
Financial period
– Consolidated cash flow statement
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1 January to
– Notes to the financial statements. 31 December 2016, with comparative figures for the financial years
Composition of the Group from 1 January to 31 December 2015 and, where appropriate, from
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the 1 January to 31 December 2014.
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit Parent company financial statements
or the net assets of the Group is given in Note 45, ‘Principal The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline plc,
Group companies’. have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP and with UK
accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented
on page 235 and the accounting policies are given on page 236.
2. Accounting principles and policies
Consolidation Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over, and
The consolidated financial statements include: rights to the net assets of, entities, the entities are accounted for
as joint ventures. Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint
– the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows,
control over an arrangement, but has rights to specified assets
of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
and obligations for specified liabilities of the arrangement, the
– the Group’s share of the results and net assets of associates and arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation. Where the Group
joint ventures has the ability to exercise significant influence over entities, they are
– the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses accounted for as associates. The results and assets and liabilities of
of joint operations. associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated
financial statements using the equity method of accounting. The
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up Group’s rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of joint
to 31 December each year. operations are included in the consolidated financial statements in
Entities over which the Group has the power to direct the relevant accordance with those rights and obligations.
activities so as to affect the returns to the Group, generally through Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the date the
control over the financial and operating policies, are accounted for Group acquires control and interests sold are de-consolidated from
as subsidiaries. the date control ceases.163 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated and Revenue
no profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries until the Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
products are sold to customers outside the Group. The relevant services are supplied or made available to external customers against
proportion of profits on transactions with joint ventures, joint orders received, title and risk of loss is passed to the customer,
operations and associates is also deferred until the products are reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions and all relevant
sold to third parties. Transactions with non-controlling interests are obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings process is
recorded directly in equity. Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra- regarded as being complete.
Group profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered
Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of
recoverable.
discounts and allowances given and accruals for estimated future
Goodwill is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries rebates and returns. The methodology and assumptions used to
and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and estimate rebates and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in
associates. Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical trends, past
acquired. experience and projected market conditions. Market conditions are
evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market
Where the cost of acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets
research data and internally generated information. Value added tax
acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income
and other sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
statement.
Where the Group co-promotes a product and the counterparty
Business combinations
records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition
promotion income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion
accounting method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
activities is such that the Group records no costs of sales.
liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion revenue of
The consideration transferred is measured at fair value and
£9 million (2015 – £14 million; 2014 – £22 million). In addition,
includes the fair value of any contingent consideration. Where the
initial or event-based milestone income (excluding royalty income)
consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling interest,
arising on development or marketing collaborations of the Group’s
exceeds the fair value of the net assets, liabilities and contingent
compounds or products with other parties is recognised in turnover.
liabilities acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill. The costs
Milestone income of £nil is included in turnover (2015 – £nil;
of acquisition are charged to the income statement in the period in
2014 – £57 million).
which they are incurred.
Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance
Where not all of the equity of a subsidiary is acquired the non-
with the terms of the relevant licensing agreements.
controlling interest is recognised either at fair value or at the non-
controlling interest’s share of the net assets of the subsidiary, on a Expenditure
case-by-case basis. Changes in the Group’s ownership percentage Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
of subsidiaries are accounted for within equity. when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
Foreign currency translation
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
Foreign currency transactions are booked in the functional currency
estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and the
of the Group company at the exchange rate ruling on the date of
achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred.
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income
retranslated into the functional currency at rates of exchange ruling
statement as incurred. Shipment costs on inter-company transfers
at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences are included in the
are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers
income statement.
are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities, including related goodwill,
Restructuring costs are recognised and provided for, where
of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated
appropriate, in respect of the direct expenditure of a business
into Sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and
advanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected
joint ventures are translated into Sterling using average rates of
has been undertaken.
exchange.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the
profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures are translated into Sterling, less exchange differences
arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the
Group’s net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate
component of equity.
When translating into Sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash
flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which
are reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies,
adjustments are made where material to reflect current price levels.
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated
income statement.164 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Research and development Employee share plans
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development share option and share award schemes.
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
The fair values of these options and awards are calculated at their
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
grant dates using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and charged
market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
and equipment used for research and development is capitalised
and depreciated in accordance with the Group’s policy. The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company
shares to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees
Environmental expenditure
exercise their options or awards. Costs of running the ESOP Trusts
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
are charged to the income statement. Shares held by the ESOP
from past or current operations and from which no current or future
Trusts are deducted from other reserves. A transfer is made between
benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. The Group
other reserves and retained earnings over the vesting periods of the
recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably
related share options or awards to reflect the ultimate proceeds
estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total costs
receivable from employees on exercise.
and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’ costs
when it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective Property, plant and equipment
shares of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of reimbursements are Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of
recorded as assets when virtually certain. purchase or construction, less provisions for depreciation and
impairment. Financing costs are capitalised within the cost of
Legal and other disputes
qualifying assets in construction.
Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or
other disputes against the Group where an outflow of resources is Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value of
considered probable and a reliable estimate can be made of the likely PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis over the
outcome. In addition, provision is made for legal or other expenses expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed, and
arising from claims received or other disputes. In respect of product where appropriate adjusted annually. The normal expected useful
liability claims related to certain products, there is sufficient history lives of the major categories of PP&E are:
of claims made and settlements to enable management to make a
reliable estimate of the provision required to cover unasserted claims. Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
In certain cases, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial Leasehold land and buildings Lease term or 20 to 50 years
technique is used to determine this estimate. Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
The Group may become involved in legal proceedings, in respect of Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years
which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the expected
financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate resolution of the On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation
proceedings. In these cases, appropriate disclosure about such and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the
cases would be included but no provision would be made. Costs net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
associated with claims made by the Group against third parties are
Leases
charged to the income statement as they are incurred.
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the
Pensions and other post-employment benefits benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance
The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The assets are
calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over included in PP&E or computer software and the capital elements of
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance
employees’ services, consistent with the advice of qualified actuaries. leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis
Pension obligations are measured as the present value of estimated consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term, if shorter.
future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields of high The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income
quality corporate bonds. Pension scheme assets are measured at statement. All other leases are operating leases and the rental costs
fair value at the balance sheet date. are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a
similar way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over Goodwill
the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed
employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of qualified to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment at least
actuaries. annually.
Actuarial gains and losses and the effect of changes in actuarial Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
assumptions, are recognised in the statement of comprehensive liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid,
income in the year in which they arise. this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income
statement.
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are charged
to the income statement as incurred.165 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Other intangible assets Available-for-sale investments
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation Liquid investments and other investments are classified as available-
and impairments. for-sale investments and are initially recorded at fair value plus
transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are
investments are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally not exceeding
Impairments arising from the significant or prolonged decline in fair
20 years, using the straight-line basis, from the time they are available
value of an equity investment reduce the carrying amount of the asset
for use. The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation
directly and are charged to the income statement.
charge take into account patent lives, where applicable, as well as
the value obtained from periods of non-exclusivity. Asset lives are On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains and
reviewed, and where appropriate adjusted, annually. Contingent losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income
milestone payments are recognised at the point that the contingent are reclassified to the income statement. Dividends on equity
event becomes probable. Any development costs incurred by the investments are recognised in the income statement when the
Group and associated with acquired licences, patents, know-how Group’s right to receive payment is established. Equity investments
or marketing rights are written off to the income statement when are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be
incurred, unless the criteria for recognition of an internally generated sold within one year.
intangible asset are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on the
made in a major market and approval is considered highly probable.
trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale
Acquired brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of investments are accounted for on settlement date.
businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a value
Inventories
which is substantial and long term and where the brands either are
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of
contractual or legal in nature or can be sold separately from the rest
cost (including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and
of the businesses acquired. Brands are amortised over their
related production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is
estimated useful lives of up to 20 years, except where it is considered
generally determined on a first in, first out basis. Pre-launch inventory
that the useful economic life is indefinite.
is held as an asset when there is a high probability of regulatory
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal approval for the product. Before that point a provision is made
use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible against the carrying value to its recoverable amount; the provision is
fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant then reversed at the point when a high probability of regulatory
business system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a approval is determined.
durable asset. ERP systems software is amortised over seven to
Trade receivables
ten years and other computer software over three to five years.
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
Impairment of non-current assets provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing,
impairment, either on a stand-alone basis or as part of a larger cash previous experience and general economic conditions. When a trade
generating unit, when there is an indication that the assets might be receivable is determined to be uncollectable it is written off, firstly
impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite against any provision available and then to the income statement.
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously provided for are
are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for impairment is
credited to the income statement. Long-term receivables are
charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
discounted where the effect is material.
Impairments of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses on other
Borrowings
non-current assets are only reversed if there has been a change in
All borrowings are initially recorded at the amount of proceeds
estimates used to determine recoverable amounts and only to the
received, net of transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently
extent that the revised recoverable amounts do not exceed the
carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds,
carrying values that would have existed, net of depreciation or
net of transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being
amortisation, had no impairments been recognised.
recognised as a charge to the income statement over the period of
Investments in associates, joint ventures and joint operations the relevant borrowing.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share of their net assets
at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits or
losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition. The
Group recognises its rights to assets, liabilities, revenue and
expenses of joint operations.166 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
2. Accounting principles and policies continued
Taxation Derivative financial instruments are classified as held-for-trading
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying and are carried in the balance sheet at fair value. Derivatives
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the designated as hedging instruments are classified on inception
balance sheet date. as cash flow hedges, net investment hedges or fair value hedges.
Deferred tax is provided in full, on temporary differences arising Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income to the
amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are extent that the hedges are effective. Ineffective portions are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits recognised in profit or loss immediately. Amounts deferred in
will be available against which the temporary differences can be other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income
utilised. Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on statement when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except
Net investment hedges are accounted for in a similar way to cash
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be
flow hedges.
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not
reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is provided using rates Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value
of tax that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with the
balance sheet date. changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the
market risks. The principal derivative instruments used by GSK income statement.
are foreign currency swaps, interest rate swaps, foreign exchange Discounting
forward contracts and options. The Group does not hold or issue Where the time value of money is material, balances are
derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative discounted to current values using appropriate discount rates.
purposes. The unwinding of the discounts is recorded in finance income
and finance expense.
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates
In preparing the financial statements, management is required Taxation
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of The tax charge for the year was £877 million (2015 – £2,154 million).
assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial At December 2016, current tax payable was £1,305 million
statements. Actual amounts and results could differ from those (2015 – £1,421 million), current tax recoverable was £226 million
estimates. The following are considered to be the key accounting (2015 – £180 million), deferred tax liabilities were £1,934 million
judgements and estimates made. (2015 – £1,522 million) and deferred tax assets were £4,374 million
(2015 – £2,905 million).
Turnover
Group turnover for 2016 was £27,889 million (2015 – £23,923 Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and
million). deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at the rates
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance
customer, reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions
sheet date.
and all relevant obligations have been fulfilled, such that the earnings
process is regarded as being complete. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable profits will be available against which the
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and
temporary differences can be utilised, based on management’s
product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by product
assumptions relating to the amounts and timing of future taxable
arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements with
profits. Factors affecting the tax charge in future years are set out
purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of
in Note 14, ‘Taxation’. A 1% change in the Group’s effective tax rate
claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale. Accruals
in 2016 would have changed the total tax charge for the year by
are made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts or
approximately £19 million.
allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available market
information and historical experience. The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities.
Where an outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a reliable
Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the
estimate of the outcome of the dispute can be made, management
final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent
provides for its best estimate of the liability. In calculating any such
upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product
liability GSK applies a risk based approach which takes into account,
sales mix.
as appropriate, the probability that the Group would be able to obtain
The level of accrual for rebates and returns is reviewed and adjusted compensatory adjustments under international tax treaties. These
regularly in the light of contractual and legal obligations, historical estimates take into account the specific circumstances of each
trends, past experience and projected market conditions. Market dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently judgemental and
conditions are evaluated using wholesaler and other third-party could change substantially over time as new facts emerge and each
analyses, market research data and internally generated information. dispute progresses.
Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals
are based to change, which could affect the future results of the
Group.167 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates continued
GSK continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for The assumptions relating to future cash flows, estimated useful
the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. At 31 December lives and discount rates are based on business forecasts and are
2016, the group had recognised provisions of £1,892 million in therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause the
respect of uncertain tax positions (2015 – £1,687 million) Where assumptions used in these impairment tests to change with a
open issues exist the ultimate liability for such matters may vary from consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of
Contingent consideration and put option liabilities
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities or, if necessary,
The 2016 income statement charge for contingent consideration and
litigation proceedings.
put option liabilities was £3,991 million (2015 – £2,069 million).
Legal and other disputes
At 31 December 2016, the liability for contingent consideration
Legal costs for the year were £162 million (2015 – £221 million).
amounted to £5,896 million (2015 – £3,855 million). Of this amount,
At 31 December 2016 provisions for legal and other disputes
£5,304 million (2015 – £3,409 million) relates to the acquisition of
amounted to £344 million (2015 – £352 million).
the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 and £545
The Group provides for anticipated settlement costs where an million (2015 – £405 million) relates to the acquisition of the
outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable estimate Vaccines business from Novartis in 2015.
may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal and other
Any contingent consideration included in the consideration payable
expenses arising from claims against the Group. These estimates
for a business combination is recorded at fair value at the date of
take into account the specific circumstances of each dispute and
acquisition. These fair values are generally based on risk-adjusted
relevant external advice are inherently judgemental and could change
future cash flows discounted using appropriate post-tax discount
substantially over time as new facts emerge and each dispute
rates. The fair values are reviewed on a regular basis, at least
progresses. Details of the status and various uncertainties involved
annually, and any changes are reflected in the income statement.
in the significant unresolved disputes are set out in Note 46, ‘Legal
See Note 39 ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
proceedings’.
During 2015, the Group granted a put option to Novartis in respect
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
of Novartis’ shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts
In certain circumstances, Novartis has the right to require GSK to
and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting
acquire its 36.5% shareholding in the Consumer Healthcare Joint
requirements. In respect of product liability claims related to certain
Venture at a market-based valuation. This right is exercisable in
products there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to
certain windows from 2018 to 2035 and may be exercised either in
enable management to make a reliable estimate of the provision
respect of Novartis’ entire shareholding or in up to four instalments.
required to cover unasserted claims. The Group may become involved
GSK has recognised a financial liability of £7,420 million in Other
in legal proceedings, in respect of which it is not possible to make a
non-current liabilities at 31 December 2016 (2015 – £6,287 million).
reliable estimate of the expected financial effect, if any, that will result
This represents the present value of the estimated redemption value
from ultimate resolution of the proceedings. In these cases,
by GSK in the event of full exercise of the right by Novartis and is
appropriate disclosure about such cases would be included, but no
calculated by applying relevant public company multiples, with no
provision would be made and no contingent liability can be quantified.
premium or discount, to forecast future profits in accordance with
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts the shareholder agreements. Sensitivity analysis is given in Note 30,
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation ‘Other non-current liabilities’.
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
Pfizer may request an IPO of ViiV Healthcare at any time and if either
The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no
GSK does not consent to such IPO or an offering is not completed
assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal
within nine months, Pfizer could require GSK to acquire its
proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported
shareholding. A liability for the put option was recognised on the
in the Group’s financial statements by a material amount.
Group’s balance sheet during 2016 at an initial value of £1,070
Goodwill and other intangible asset impairments million. GSK also recognised liabilities for the future preferential
At 31 December 2016, goodwill was £5,965 million (2015 – dividends anticipated to become payable to Pfizer and Shionogi on
£5,162 million) and other intangible assets were £18,776 million the Group’s balance sheet during 2016. The liability for the Pfizer put
(2015 – £16,672 million). option of £1,319 million at 31 December 2016 was recognised in
Trade and other payables. Sensitivity analysis is also given in Note 27
Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite life and so is not amortised.
‘Trade and other payables’.
Annual impairment tests of the cash generating units to which
goodwill is allocated are performed. Impairment tests are based Shionogi also held a put option over its shareholding in ViiV
on established market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows Healthcare and during 2016, GSK recognised the liability for the
discounted using appropriate discount rates. The assumptions used put option on the Group’s balance sheet at an initial value of £926
in these impairment tests are set out in Note 18, ‘Goodwill’. million. In Q4 2016, Shionogi irrevocably agreed to waive its put
option and as a result GSK de-recognised the liability for this put
In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that
option on the Group’s balance sheet directly to equity. The value of
a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result
the liability was £1,244 million when it was de-recognised. See
in an impairment of the related goodwill.
‘Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare’ on page 58 for full
Impairment tests on other intangible assets are undertaken if events details on these put options.
occur which call into question the carrying values of the assets.
The assumptions relating to future cash flows and discount rates
Where brands and other intangible assets which are not yet available
are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently
for use are not amortised, they are subject to annual impairment
judgemental. Future events could cause the assumptions underlying
tests. Valuations for impairment tests are based on established
these projections or the market-based multiples, which are used to
market multiples or risk-adjusted future cash flows over the estimated
value the liabilities for contingent consideration and the put options,
useful life of the asset, where limited, discounted using appropriate
to change with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of
discount rates as set out in Note 19, ‘Other intangible assets’.
the Group.168 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
3. Key accounting judgements and estimates continued
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The expected long-term rates of return on bonds are determined
The costs of providing pensions and other post-employment benefits based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and corporate
are charged to the income statement in accordance with IAS 19 bonds. An equity risk premium is added to this for equities.
‘Employee benefits’ over the period during which benefit is derived
Discount rates are derived from AA rated corporate bond yields
from the employees’ services. The costs are assessed on the basis
except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate
of assumptions selected by management. These assumptions
bonds where government bond yields are used. A sensitivity analysis
include future earnings and pension increases, discount rates,
is provided in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
expected long-term rates of return on assets and mortality rates,
benefits’, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to an
and are disclosed in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment
increase in the net pension deficit of approximately £769 million and
benefits’. Where a surplus on a defined benefit scheme arises,
an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately £27 million.
or there is potential for a surplus to arise from committed future
The selection of different assumptions could affect the future results
contributions, the rights of the Trustees to prevent the Group
of the Group.
obtaining a refund of that surplus in the future are considered in
determining whether it is necessary to restrict the amount of the
surplus that is recognised.
4. New accounting requirements
The following new and amended accounting standards have been IFRS 9 ‘Financial instruments’ was issued in its final form in July 2014
issued by the IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports. and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2018. The
Standard will replace the majority of IAS 39 and covers the
IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ was issued in May
classification, measurement and de recognition of financial assets
2014 and will be implemented by the Group from 1 January 2018.
and financial liabilities, impairment of financial assets and provides
The Standard provides a single, principles-based approach to the
a new hedge accounting model.
recognition of revenue from all contracts with customers. It focuses
on the identification of performance obligations in a contract and The Group is currently assessing the new IFRS and does not expect
requires revenue to be recognised when or as those performance to be able to quantify the impact of any potential changes until later
obligations are satisfied. in 2017.
The Group is currently assessing the new IFRS and does not expect IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ was issued in January 2016 and will be
to be able to quantify the impact of any potential changes until later implemented by the Group from 1 January 2019. The Standard will
in 2017. replace IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and will require lease liabilities and ‘right of
use’ assets to be recognised on the balance sheet for almost all
leases.
The Group is in the early stages of assessing the potential impact
of the new IFRS.
5. Exchange rates
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during
2016 2015 2014
the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas
Average rates:
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into Sterling and period
US$/£ 1.36 1.53 1.65
end rates to translate the net assets of those entities. The currencies
Euro/£ 1.23 1.37 1.24
which most influence these translations and the relevant exchange
rates were as follows: Yen/£ 149 185 175
Period end rates:
US$/£ 1.24 1.47 1.56
Euro/£ 1.17 1.36 1.29
Yen/£ 144 177 187169 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
6. Segment information
Operating segments are reported based on the financial information provided to the Chief Executive Officer and the responsibilities of the
Corporate Executive Team (CET). The completion of the Novartis transaction on 2 March 2015 changed the balance of the Group and GSK
changed its segment reporting to reflect this. With effect from 1 January 2016, GSK has reported results under four segments:
Pharmaceuticals, which now includes HIV, Pharmaceuticals R&D, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare and individual members of the CET
are responsible for each segment. Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
The Group’s management reporting process allocates intra-Group profit on a product sale to the market in which that sale is recorded, and
the profit analyses below have been presented on that basis.
The Pharmaceuticals R&D segment is the responsibility of the President, Pharmaceuticals R&D and is reported as a separate segment.
Corporate and other unallocated turnover and costs included the results of several Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products which
were held for sale in a number of markets in order to meet anti-trust approval requirements in 2014 and 2015, together with the costs of
corporate functions.
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
Turnover by segment £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 16,104 14,157 15,438
Vaccines 4,592 3,656 3,159
Consumer Healthcare 7,193 6,038 4,322
Segment turnover 27,889 23,851 22,919
Corporate and other unallocated turnover – 72 87
27,889 23,923 23,006
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
Respiratory 6,510 5,741 6,168
Cardiovascular, metabolic and urology 860 858 965
Immuno-inflammation 340 263 214
Other pharmaceuticals 2,297 2,445 3,582
Established Products 2,541 2,528 3,011
HIV 3,556 2,322 1,498
16,104 14,157 15,438
During 2016, the US operations of the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses made sales to three wholesalers of approximately
£2,139 million (2015 – £1,574 million; 2014 – £1,478 million), £2,691 million (2015 – £2,471 million; 2014 – £2,315 million) and
£2,129 million (2015 – £1,602 million; 2014 – £1,627 million) respectively, after allocating final-customer discounts to the wholesalers.
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
Consumer Healthcare turnover by category £m £m £m
Wellness 3,726 2,970 1,565
Oral care 2,223 1,875 1,806
Nutrition 674 684 633
Skin health 570 509 318
7,193 6,038 4,322170 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Segment information continued
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
Segment profit
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 7,979 6,466 7,405
Pharmaceuticals R&D (2,488) (2,168) (2,326)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 5,491 4,298 5,079
Vaccines 1,454 964 997
Consumer Healthcare 1,116 684 496
Segment profit 8,061 5,946 6,572
Corporate and other unallocated costs (290) (217) 22
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit (5,173) 4,593 (2,997)
Operating profit 2,598 10,322 3,597
Finance income 72 104 68
Finance costs (736) (757) (727)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 843 –
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 5 14 30
Profit before taxation 1,939 10,526 2,968
Taxation (877) (2,154) (137)
Profit after taxation for the year 1,062 8,372 2,831
Other reconciling items between segment profit and operating profit comprise items not specifically allocated to segment profit.
These include impairment and amortisation of intangible assets, major restructuring charges, legal charges and expenses on the settlement of
litigation and government investigations, disposals of businesses, products and associates and certain other items related to major acquisition
and disposal activity.
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
Depreciation and amortisation by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 440 303 302
Pharmaceuticals R&D 211 238 161
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 651 541 463
Vaccines 315 253 224
Consumer Healthcare 126 140 105
Segment depreciation and amortisation 1,092 934 792
Corporate and other unallocated depreciation and amortisation 94 145 112
Other reconciling items between segment depreciation and amortisation and
total depreciation and amortisation 588 551 580
Total depreciation and amortisation 1,774 1,630 1,484171 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
6. Segment information continued
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
PP&E, intangible asset and goodwill impairment by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 29 57 54
Pharmaceuticals R&D 88 105 24
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 117 162 78
Vaccines 34 17 1
Consumer Healthcare 46 5 16
Segment impairment 197 184 95
Corporate and other unallocated impairment 24 18 3
Other reconciling items between segment impairment and total impairment 68 385 153
Total impairment 289 587 251
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
PP&E and intangible asset impairment reversals by segment
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals (15) (8) (39)
Pharmaceuticals R&D (10) (10) (23)
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D (25) (18) (62)
Vaccines (19) – –
Consumer Healthcare (8) (4) (14)
Segment impairment reversals (52) (22) (76)
Corporate and other unallocated impairment reversals (26) (2) –
Other reconciling items between segment impairment reversal and total impairment reversal (9) – –
Total impairment reversals (87) (24) (76)
2015
2016 (restated)
Net assets by segment £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 3,225 5,721
Pharmaceuticals R&D 572 615
Pharmaceuticals, including R&D 3,797 6,336
Vaccines 9,676 8,884
Consumer Healthcare 3,721 4,154
Segment net operating assets 17,194 19,374
Corporate and other unallocated net operating assets (228) (136)
Net operating assets 16,966 19,238
Net debt (13,804) (10,727)
Investments in associates and joint ventures 263 207
Derivative financial instruments (38) (28)
Current and deferred taxation 1,361 142
Assets held for sale 215 46
Net assets 4,963 8,878
The Pharmaceuticals segment includes the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability of £5,304 million
(2015 – £3,409 million) and the Pfizer put option of £1,319 million (2015 – £nil). The Consumer Healthcare segment includes the put
option liability of £7,420 million (2015 – £6,287 million).172 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
6. Segment information continued
Geographical information
The UK is regarded as being the Group’s country of domicile.
2015
2016 (restated) 2014
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
UK 1,056 1,102 1,100
US 10,197 8,222 7,409
International 16,636 14,599 14,497
External turnover 27,889 23,923 23,006
2016 2015 2014
Turnover by location of subsidiary £m £m £m
UK 3,519 3,146 3,518
US 16,105 13,273 10,768
International 19,805 17,385 17,227
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 39,429 33,804 31,513
UK 2,018 1,751 1,994
US 5,990 4,934 3,432
International 3,532 3,196 3,081
Inter-segment turnover 11,540 9,881 8,507
UK 1,501 1,395 1,524
US 10,115 8,339 7,336
International 16,273 14,189 14,146
External turnover 27,889 23,923 23,006
2016 2015 2014
Operating profit by location of subsidiary £m £m £m
UK 1,561 8,243 414
US 2,343 4,307 1,375
International (1,306) (2,228) 1,808
Total operating profit 2,598 10,322 3,597
2016 2015
Non-current assets by location of subsidiary £m £m
UK 7,060 6,967
US 7,802 7,524
International 21,234 17,474
Non-current assets 36,096 31,965
Non-current assets by location excludes amounts relating to other investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments, pension
assets, amounts receivable under insurance contracts and certain other non-current receivables.173 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
7. Other operating income/(expense)
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Impairment of equity investments (47) (263) (25)
Disposal of equity investments 254 342 155
Disposal of businesses and assets 283 9,661 244
Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business combinations (2,205) (1,965) (770)
Remeasurement of ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities and preferential dividends (577) – –
Remeasurement of Consumer Healthcare put option liability (1,133) (83) –
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments (3) 2 (313)
Other income/(expense) 23 21 9
(3,405) 7,715 (700)
Disposal of businesses and assets in 2016 included milestone income of £152 million in relation to the divestment of ofatumumab and a
number of other smaller divestments and in 2015 included the disposal of the Oncology business to Novartis for £9,228 million and an
initial £200 million for the divestment of ofatumumab. Fair value remeasurements on contingent consideration recognised in business
combinations comprised £2,162 million related to the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £152 million
related to the contingent consideration, payable to Novartis related to the Vaccines acquisition, partially offset by hedging gains and other
smaller items.
Fair value adjustments on derivative financial instruments arise from foreign exchange forward contracts and options taken out to
hedge against foreign currency movements when sales and purchases are denominated in foreign currencies (see Note 42, ‘Financial
instruments and related disclosures’). In 2014 this included an unrealised loss of £299 million arising from a number of forward exchange
contracts entered into following announcement of the proposed Novartis transaction to protect the Sterling value of the net US Dollar
proceeds due to the Group on completion of the transaction.
8. Operating profit
2016 2015 2014
The following items have been included in operating profit: £m £m £m
Employee costs (Note 9) 8,212 8,030 7,520
Advertising 1,265 1,059 671
Distribution costs 395 376 325
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 978 892 780
Impairment of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals 180 346 18
Amortisation of intangible assets 796 738 704
Impairment of intangible assets, net of reversals 22 217 157
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 53 47 (18)
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 8,093 7,602 6,334
Write-down of inventories 533 488 389
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (145) (65) (169)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 91 101 133
Contingent rents 4 8 8
Sub-lease payments 4 7 5
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates in relation to the Group (see below) 29.7 33.1 33.7
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise from the reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
Included within operating profit are major restructuring charges of £970 million (2015 – £1,891 million; 2014 – £750 million), see Note 10,
‘Major restructuring costs’.174 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
8. Operating profit continued
2015
2016 (restated) 2014
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates: £m £m £m
Audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 5.8 7.5 4.9
Audit of the company’s subsidiaries 16.4 16.3 11.2
Attestation under s.404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 4.4 4.3 4.0
Audit and audit-related services 26.6 28.1 20.1
Taxation compliance 0.2 0.3 0.6
Taxation advice 1.8 3.2 4.5
Other assurance services 0.3 1.1 8.0
All other services 0.8 0.4 0.5
29.7 33.1 33.7
The other assurance services provided by the auditor relate to agreed upon procedures and other assurance services outside of statutory
audit requirements. All other services provided by the auditor primarily related to advisory services for the year ended 31 December 2016.
In addition to the above, fees paid in respect of the GSK pension schemes were:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Audit 0.4 0.3 0.3
Other services – – –
9. Employee costs
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 6,391 6,132 5,879
Social security costs 733 633 639
Pension and other post-employment costs, including augmentations (Note 28) 541 467 403
Cost of share-based incentive plans 338 349 346
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 209 449 253
8,212 8,030 7,520
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets,
healthcare insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
The cost of share-based incentive plans is analysed as follows:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Share Value Plan 271 307 302
Performance Share Plan 39 26 20
Share option plans 4 4 3
Other plans 24 12 21
338 349 346175 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
9. Employee costs continued
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year was:
2016 2015 2014
Number Number Number
Manufacturing 38,611 37,025 31,726
Selling, general and administration 49,961 52,121 54,618
Research and development 11,255 12,046 12,358
99,827 101,192 98,702
The average monthly number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of
each financial year are given in the financial record on page 246. The monthly average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline
plc in 2016 was nil (2015 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors and Senior Management (members of the CET) in aggregate, was as follows:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 25 23 19
Social security costs 4 2 3
Pension and other post-employment costs 2 3 3
Cost of share-based incentive plans 15 18 13
46 46 38
10. Major restructuring costs
Major restructuring costs charged in arriving at operating profit include restructuring costs arising under the Major Change programme
initiated in 2013, under the Pharmaceuticals Restructuring Programme announced in October 2014 and following the Novartis transaction,
completed in 2015.
Under the combined programme the total restructuring costs of £970 million in 2016 were incurred in the following areas:
– Restructuring of the R&D organisation, predominantly in the United Kingdom, North America and Japan.
– Projects to simplify or eliminate processes leading to staff reductions in support functions.
– Restructuring of the Pharmaceuticals business in Emerging Markets and Europe leading to staff reductions in sales force and
administration.
– Transformation of the Manufacturing and Vaccines businesses to deliver a step change in quality, cost and productivity.
– The continued integration of the enhanced Vaccines business and the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture.
The analysis of the costs charged to operating profit under these programmes is as follows:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Increase in provision for major restructuring programmes (see Note 29) 163 718 267
Amount of provision reversed unused (see Note 29) (140) (44) (4)
Impairment losses recognised 158 419 –
Other non-cash charges 108 51 15
Other cash costs 681 747 472
970 1,891 750
Provision reversals of £140 million (2015 – £44 million; 2014 – £4 million) reflect release of legacy support function and Novartis integration
provisions. Asset impairments of £158 million (2015 – £419 million; 2014 – £nil) and other non-cash charges totalling £108 million (2015
– £51 million; 2014 – £15 million) are non-cash items, principally fixed asset write downs across support function, manufacturing and
research facilities and accelerated depreciation where asset lives in R&D and manufacturing have been shortened as a result of the major
restructuring programme. All other charges have been or will be settled in cash and include the termination of leases, site closure costs,
consultancy and project management fees.176 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
11. Finance income
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Interest income arising from:
cash and cash equivalents 67 71 56
available-for-sale investments 1 1 1
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss – 24 –
loans and receivables 2 3 9
Fair value adjustments on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss 2 5 2
72 104 68
All derivatives accounted for at fair value through profit or loss other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 42,
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’) are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39.
12. Finance expense
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Interest expense arising on:
financial liabilities at amortised cost (671) (655) (665)
derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (30) (64) (23)
Fair value hedges:
fair value movements on derivatives designated as hedging instruments – – 10
fair value adjustments on hedged items – – (5)
Fair value movements on other derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (3) (6) (15)
Reclassification of cash flow hedge from other comprehensive income (1) (2) –
Unwinding of discounts on provisions (16) (16) (15)
Other finance expense (15) (14) (14)
(736) (757) (727)
All derivatives accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, other than designated and effective hedging instruments (see Note 42,
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’), are classified as held-for-trading financial instruments under IAS 39. Interest expense arising
on derivatives at fair value through profit or loss relates to swap interest expense.177 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
13. Associates and joint ventures
The Group’s share of after tax profits and losses of associates and joint ventures is set out below:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Share of after tax profits of associates 9 16 38
Share of after tax losses of joint ventures (4) (2) (8)
5 14 30
At 31 December 2016, the Group held one significant associate, Innoviva, Inc.
Summarised income statement information in respect of Innoviva is set out below for the periods in which the Group accounted for its
investment in Innoviva as an associate. The Group’s 2016 share of after tax profits of associates and other comprehensive income includes
a profit of £6 million and other comprehensive income of £nil in respect of Innoviva.
Since
1 September
2016 2015
£m £m
Turnover 98 20
Profit after taxation 44 4
Comprehensive income – –
Total comprehensive income 44 4
The results of Innoviva included in the summarised income statement information above represent the estimated earnings of Innoviva in the
relevant periods. Innoviva’s turnover is from royalty income from GSK in relation to Relvar/Breo Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta sales.
In March 2015, the Group divested half of its shareholding in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited and ceased to account for the remaining
investment as an associate. In 2014, Aspen was the Group’s only significant associate. Summarised income statement information in respect
of Aspen is set out below for the periods in which the Group accounted for its investment in Aspen as an associate.
To 20 March
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Turnover – 441 1,823
Profit after taxation – 67 313
Comprehensive income – 16 148
Total comprehensive income – 83 461
The results of Aspen included in the summarised income statement information above represent the estimated earnings of the Aspen group in
the relevant periods, adjusted for transactions between GSK and Aspen.
Aggregated financial information in respect of GSK’s share of other associated undertakings and joint ventures is set out below:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Share of turnover 133 188 187
Share of after tax (losses)/profits (1) 12 (9)
Share of other comprehensive income – 25 –
Share of total comprehensive income/(expense) (1) 37 (9)
The Group’s sales to associates and joint ventures were £43 million in 2016 (2015 – £41 million; 2014 – £85 million).178 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation
2016 2015 2014
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK current year charge 241 156 221
Rest of World current year charge 1,326 2,924 1,092
Credit in respect of prior periods (149) (508) (571)
Total current taxation 1,418 2,572 742
Total deferred taxation (541) (418) (605)
877 2,154 137
In 2016, GSK made payments of £146 million in UK corporation tax to HMRC. In January 2017, GSK made further payments of £71 million in
relation to UK corporation tax. These amounts are for corporation tax only, and do not include the various other business taxes borne by GSK
each year.
A significant component of the deferred tax credit for each of 2016 and the prior periods arose in respect of the remeasurement of the
contingent consideration in relation to the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. In 2015, the credit also included the unwind of
deferred tax liabilities on the disposal of the Group’s Oncology business to Novartis.
The following table reconciles the tax charge calculated at the UK statutory rate on the Group profit before tax with the actual tax charge for
the year.
2016 2016 2015 2015 2014 2014
Reconciliation of taxation on Group profits £m % £m % £m %
Profit before tax 1,939 10,526 2,968
UK statutory rate of taxation 388 20.0 2,131 20.25 638 21.5
Differences in overseas taxation rates 593 30.6 1,035 9.8 406 13.7
Benefit of intellectual property incentives (321) (16.5) (286) (2.7) (323) (10.9)
R&D credits (93) (4.8) (38) (0.4) (72) (2.4)
Remeasurement of non-taxable put option liabilities 340 17.5 17 0.2 – –
Losses not recognised/(previously unrecognised losses) (15) (0.8) 31 0.3 (205) (6.9)
Permanent differences on disposals and acquisitions (21) (1.1) (248) (2.4) 23 0.8
Other permanent differences 97 5.0 58 0.6 268 9.0
Re-assessments of prior year estimates in respect of current
and deferred taxes (116) (6.0) (578) (5.5) (617) (20.8)
Tax on unremitted earnings 25 1.3 32 0.3 19 0.6
Tax charge/tax rate 877 45.2 2,154 20.5 137 4.6
GSK has a substantial business presence in many countries around the world. The impact of differences in overseas taxation rates arose from
profits being earned in countries with tax rates higher than the UK statutory rate, the most significant of which in 2016 were the US, France
and India. This was partly offset by the increased benefit of intellectual property incentives from the UK Patent Box and Belgian Patent Income
Deduction regimes. Such regimes provide a reduced rate of corporate income tax on profits earned from qualifying patents. The Group also
incurred material non-deductible charges following the revaluation of liabilities for the ViiV Healthcare and Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
put options. The impact of higher overseas tax rates was reduced in 2015 by permanent differences arising on disposals.
The Group’s overall effective tax rate for 2016 of 45.2% was influenced by significant transaction-related remeasurement charges arising
on the ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability and the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture and ViiV Healthcare put option liabilities.
The remeasurement of these liabilities gave rise to a charge to profit before tax in 2016 of £3,862 million with a related tax credit of £396 million
(10.3%). Excluding these items, the effective tax rate for the year would have been 21.9%. Further details on the Consumer Healthcare Joint
Venture put option are set out in Note 30, ‘Other non-current liabilities’ and on the ViiV Healthcare arrangements on page 58.
Future tax charges, and therefore our effective tax rate, may be affected by factors such as acquisitions, disposals, restructuring, the location of
research and development activity, tax regime reforms and the resolution of open matters as we continue to bring our tax affairs up to date around
the world.
2016 2015 2014
Tax on items charged to equity and statement of comprehensive income £m £m £m
Current taxation
Share-based payments 7 22 55
Defined benefit plans 32 30 –
39 52 55
Deferred taxation
Share-based payments – (12) (59)
Defined benefit plans 94 (110) 262
Exchange movements – – (2)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 2 – (1)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 51 (55) (20)
147 (177) 180
Total credit/(charge) to equity and statement of comprehensive income 186 (125) 235
All of the above items have been charged to the statement of comprehensive income except for tax on share based payments.179 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
14. Taxation continued
Issues relating to taxation
The Group’s tax charge is the sum of the total current and deferred tax expense. The calculation of the Group’s total tax charge necessarily
involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has
been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process. At 31 December 2016 the Group held
provisions of £1,892 million in respect of such uncertain tax positions (2015 - £1,687 million). The increase in recognised provisions during
2016 was primarily driven by the foreign exchange impact of revaluing overseas exposures. While the ultimate liability for such matters may
vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of agreements with the relevant tax authorities, or litigation where
appropriate, the Group continues to believe that it has made appropriate provision for periods which are open and not yet agreed by the tax
authorities.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations involves significant investment in research and strategic manufacturing at a limited
number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets. GSK’s biggest risk with respect to taxation
is that, despite our adherence to the OECD’s established ‘arm’s length principle’, different tax authorities will seek to attribute further profit to
activities being undertaken in their jurisdiction, potentially resulting in double taxation. GSK applies a risk-based approach to determine the
transactions most likely to be subject to challenge and the probability that the Group would be able to obtain compensatory adjustments
under international tax treaties. The Group also has open items in several jurisdictions concerning such matters as the deductibility of
particular expenses and the tax treatment of certain business transactions. The Group does not consider there to be any major sources of
estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts
of tax-related assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
There continues to be a significant international focus on tax reform, including the OECD’s BEPS project and European Commission
initiatives, including the increased use of fiscal state aid investigations. Together with domestic initiatives around the world these may result in
significant changes to established tax principles and an increase in tax authority disputes. In turn, this could adversely affect our effective tax
rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities.
The aggregate amount of unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £18 billion (2015 – £16 billion). The majority of these
unremitted profits would not be subject to tax on repatriation as UK legislation relating to company distributions provides for exemption from
tax for most overseas profits, subject to certain exceptions. Provision for deferred tax liabilities of £205 million (2015 – £180 million) has been
made in respect of withholding tax that would arise on the distribution of profits by certain overseas subsidiaries. The remainder of unremitted
profits on which deferred tax has not been provided was £1.7 billion at 31 December 2016 (2015 – £1.5 billion). Deferred tax on distribution
of these remaining profits has not been provided on the grounds that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the remaining
temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated other post option net
capital Intangible Contingent Intra-Group employment Tax and award temporary
allowances assets consideration profit benefits losses schemes differences Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Asset/liability at 1 January 2016 (346) (2,234) 790 825 989 97 92 1,170 1,383
Exchange adjustments (47) (153) – 168 164 13 14 87 246
Credit to income statement 16 63 348 61 15 117 4 40 664
Credit to statement of
comprehensive income – – – – 94 – – 53 147
Asset/liability at 31 December 2016 (377) (2,324) 1,138 1,054 1,262 227 110 1,350 2,440
The deferred tax credit to the income statement of £664 million includes £123 million of R&D incentives recognised within Operating profit
(and not the taxation charge) in the Income statement.
Deferred tax liabilities provided in relation to intangible assets predominately relate to temporary differences arising on assets and liabilities
acquired as part of historic business combinations. The Group continues to recognise deferred tax assets on future obligations in respect of
contingent consideration amounts payable to minority shareholders. These payments are tax deductible at the point in time at which payment
is made.
A deferred tax asset is recognised on intra-Group profits arising on inter-company stock which are eliminated within the consolidated
accounts. As intra-Group profits are not eliminated from the individual entities’ tax returns a temporary difference arises that will reverse at
the point in time stock is sold externally.
The deferred tax asset recognised on tax losses comprises a £173 million (2015 – £97 million) asset related to trading losses and a
£54 million (2015 – £nil) asset related to capital losses. Other net temporary differences include accrued expenses for which a tax deduction
is only available on a paid basis.
After offsetting deferred tax assets and liabilities where appropriate within territories, the net deferred tax asset comprises:
2016 2015
£m £m
Deferred tax assets 4,374 2,905
Deferred tax liabilities (1,934) (1,522)
2,440 1,383180 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
14. Taxation continued
2015
2016 (restated)
Unrecognised Unrecognised
deferred tax deferred tax
Tax losses asset Tax losses asset
Unrecognised tax losses £m £m £m £m
Trading losses expiring:
Within 10 years 786 255 414 102
More than 10 years 842 131 1,206 280
Available indefinitely 95 15 58 15
At 31 December 1,723 401 1,678 397
Capital losses 2,320 396 2,771 472
At 31 December 2,320 396 2,771 472
Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses. The amount of unrecognised
trading losses for 2015 has been revised following a reassessment of available losses for which deferred tax was not recognised.
15. Earnings per share
2016 2015 2014
pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 18.8 174.3 57.3
Diluted earnings per share 18.6 172.3 56.7
Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of shares
in issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and Treasury shares. The trustees have waived their rights to
dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation to
assume the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where its
exercise price is below the average market price of GSK shares during the period and any performance conditions attaching to the
scheme have been met at the balance sheet date.
The numbers of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciled below.
2016 2015 2014
Weighted average number of shares in issue
millions millions millions
Basic 4,860 4,831 4,808
Dilution for share options and awards 49 57 57
Diluted 4,909 4,888 4,865
16. Dividends
2016 2015 2014
Dividend Total Dividend Total Dividend Total
per share dividend per share dividend per share dividend
Paid/payable (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m Paid (pence) £m
First interim 14 July 2016 19 923 9 July 2015 19 920 10 July 2014 19 916
Second interim 13 October 2016 19 925 1 October 2015 19 919 2 October 2014 19 918
Third interim 12 January 2017 19 925 14 January 2016 19 919 8 January 2015 19 924
Fourth interim 13 April 2017 23 1,119 14 April 2016 23 1,114 9 April 2015 23 1,111
Total 80 3,892 80 3,872 80 3,869
Special dividend 14 April 2016 20 969
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a
dividend two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2016 financial statements recognise those
dividends paid in 2016, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2015, the special dividend declared in 2015 and the first and second
interim dividends for 2016.
The amounts recognised in each year are as follows:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 4,850 3,874 3,843181 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
17. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2015 6,804 10,170 2,381 19,355
Exchange adjustments (48) (92) (42) (182)
Additions through business combinations 310 285 103 698
Other additions 95 242 1,099 1,436
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 19 19
Disposals and write-offs (74) (340) (15) (429)
Reclassifications 228 557 (875) (90)
Transfer to assets held for sale (10) (47) – (57)
Cost at 31 December 2015 7,305 10,775 2,670 20,750
Exchange adjustments 956 1,100 271 2,327
Other additions 117 384 1,043 1,544
Capitalised borrowing costs – – 30 30
Disposals and write-offs (349) (1,422) (53) (1,824)
Reclassifications 110 512 (761) (139)
Transfer to assets held for sale (378) (114) (32) (524)
Cost at 31 December 2016 7,761 11,235 3,168 22,164
Depreciation at 1 January 2015 (2,681) (7,151) – (9,832)
Exchange adjustments 16 41 – 57
Charge for the year (291) (601) – (892)
Disposals and write-offs 54 275 – 329
Transfer (from)/to assets held for sale (12) 21 – 9
Depreciation at 31 December 2015 (2,914) (7,415) – (10,329)
Exchange adjustments (377) (717) – (1,094)
Charge for the year (338) (640) – (978)
Disposals and write-offs 205 1,270 – 1,475
Transfer to assets held for sale 165 92 – 257
Depreciation at 31 December 2016 (3,259) (7,410) – (10,669)
Impairment at 1 January 2015 (116) (279) (76) (471)
Exchange adjustments (8) 1 1 (6)
Disposals and write-offs 7 16 – 23
Impairment losses (162) (177) (31) (370)
Reversal of impairments 5 19 – 24
Transfer to assets held for sale – 47 – 47
Impairment at 31 December 2015 (274) (373) (106) (753)
Exchange adjustments (45) (37) (11) (93)
Disposals and write-offs 91 135 35 261
Impairment losses (135) (117) (6) (258)
Reversal of impairments 38 38 2 78
Transfer to assets held for sale 46 10 22 78
Impairment at 31 December 2016 (279) (344) (64) (687)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2015 (3,188) (7,788) (106) (11,082)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31 December 2016 (3,538) (7,754) (64) (11,356)
Net book value at 1 January 2015 4,007 2,740 2,305 9,052
Net book value at 31 December 2015 4,117 2,987 2,564 9,668
Net book value at 31 December 2016 4,223 3,481 3,104 10,808
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3.8% (2015 – 3.8%). Disposals and write-offs in the year
include a number of assets with nil net book value that are no longer in use in the business.182 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
17. Property,plant and equipment continued
The net book value at 31 December 2016 of the Group’s land and buildings comprised freehold properties £3,887 million (2015 –
£3,251 million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £294 million (2015 – £327 million) and properties with leases of less than
50 years £42 million (2015 – £100 million).
Included in land and buildings at 31 December 2016 were leased assets with a cost of £590 million (2015 – £756 million), accumulated
depreciation of £253 million (2015 – £233 million), impairment of £1 million (2015 – £nil) and a net book value of £448 million
(2015 – £523 million). Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31 December 2016 were leased assets with a cost of £44 million
(2015 – £31 million), accumulated depreciation of £15 million (2015 – £27 million), impairment of £nil (2015 – £nil) and a net
book value of £29 million (2015 – £4 million). Some lease agreements include renewal or purchase options or escalation clauses.
The impairment losses principally arose from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs
of disposal or value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on
observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. These calculations
determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant asset or cash generating unit, applying a
discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for relevant specific risks.
For value in use calculations, where an impairment is indicated and a pre-tax cash flow calculation is expected to give a materially different
result, the test would be reperformed using pre-tax cash flows and a pre-tax discount rate. The Group WACC is equivalent to a pre-tax
discount rate of approximately 9%. The net impairment losses have been charged to cost of sales £45 million (2015 – £109 million),
R&D £15 million (2015 – £63 million) and SG&A £120 million (2015 – £174 million), and included £151 million (2015 – £327 million)
arising from the major restructuring programmes.
Reversals of impairment arose from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditions which gave rise to the original
impairments were deemed no longer to apply. All of the reversals have been credited to cost of sales.
The carrying value at 31 December 2016 of assets for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year was £171 million
(2015 – £138 million).
During 2016, £139 million (2015 – £90 million) of computer software was reclassified from assets in construction to intangible assets on
becoming ready for use.
18. Goodwill
2016 2015
£m £m
Cost at 1 January 5,162 3,724
Exchange adjustments 814 66
Additions through business combinations (Note 38) 7 1,372
Transfer to assets held for sale (18) –
Cost at 31 December 5,965 5,162
Net book value at 1 January 5,162 3,724
Net book value at 31 December 5,965 5,162
In 2016, GSK acquired the HIV R&D preclinical and discovery stage portfolio from Bristol Myers Squibb. Goodwill of £7 million arose from
this acquisition which was allocated to Pharmaceuticals.
Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s segments as follows. The allocations for 2015 have been revised to reflect the current segment structure.
2016 2015
£m £m
Pharmaceuticals 3,288 2,952
Vaccines 1,353 1,003
Consumer Healthcare 1,324 1,207
Net book value at 31 December 5,965 5,162183 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
18. Goodwill continued
The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units are assessed using a fair value less costs of disposal model. Fair value less costs of
disposal is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to the projected risk-adjusted post-tax
cash flows and terminal value.
The discount rate used is based on the Group WACC of 7%, as most cash generating units have integrated operations across large parts of
the Group. The discount rate is adjusted where appropriate for specific country or currency risks. The valuation methodology uses significant
inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Details relating to the discounted cash flow models used in the impairment tests of the Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare
cash generating units are as follows:
Valuation basis Fair value less costs of disposal
Key assumptions Sales growth rates
Profit margins
Terminal growth rate
Discount rate
Taxation rate
Determination of assumptions Growth rates are internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information.
Margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected changes.
Terminal growth rates based on management’s estimate of future long-term average growth rates.
Discount rates based on Group WACC, adjusted where appropriate.
Taxation rates based on appropriate rates for each region.
Period of specific projected cash flows Five years
Terminal growth rate and discount rate Terminal growth rate Discount rate
Pharmaceuticals 1% p.a. 7%
Vaccines 2% p.a. 7%
Consumer Healthcare 2% p.a. 7%
The terminal growth rates do not exceed the long-term projected growth rates for the relevant markets, reflect the impact of future generic
competition and take account of new product launches.
In each case the valuations indicated sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an
impairment of the related goodwill. Goodwill is monitored at the segmental level.
The Pharmaceuticals cash generating unit comprises a collection of smaller cash generating units including assets with indefinite lives with a
carrying value of £211 million (2015 – £240 million). The Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit also comprises a collection of smaller
cash generating units including brands with indefinite lives with a carrying value of £9.03 billion (2015 – £7.71 billion).
Details of indefinite life brands are given in Note 19 ‘Other intangible assets’.184 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
19. Other intangible assets
Computer Licences, Amortised Indefinite life
software patents, etc. brands brands Total
£m £m £m £m £m
Cost at 1 January 2015 1,818 10,281 422 2,155 14,676
Exchange adjustments 32 74 3 (14) 95
Capitalised development costs – 217 – – 217
Capitalised borrowing costs 7 – – – 7
Additions through business combinations – 2,791 – 5,997 8,788
Other additions 174 132 – – 306
Reclassifications 90 – – – 90
Disposals and asset write-offs (91) (98) – – (189)
Transfer to assets held for sale (2) (3) (38) (64) (107)
Cost at 31 December 2015 2,028 13,394 387 8,074 23,883
Exchange adjustments 137 1,139 20 1,320 2,616
Capitalised development costs – 219 21 – 240
Capitalised borrowing costs 4 – – – 4
Additions through business combinations – 102 – – 102
Other additions 238 349 – – 587
Disposals and asset write-offs (389) (21) (1) (7) (418)
Transfer to assets held for sale (1) (39) – (12) (52)
Reclassifications 139 – – – 139
Cost at 31 December 2016 2,156 15,143 427 9,375 27,101
Amortisation at 1 January 2015 (1,213) (3,492) (134) – (4,839)
Exchange adjustments (15) (34) (1) – (50)
Charge for the year (140) (596) (2) – (738)
Disposals and asset write-offs 73 92 – – 165
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 – 4 – 5
Amortisation at 31 December 2015 (1,294) (4,030) (133) – (5,457)
Exchange adjustments (92) (410) (5) – (507)
Charge for the year (152) (553) (91) – (796)
Disposals and asset write-offs 353 – 5 – 358
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 10 – – 11
Amortisation at 31 December 2016 (1,184) (4,983) (224) – (6,391)
Impairment at 1 January 2015 (42) (1,239) (154) (82) (1,517)
Exchange adjustments 1 (58) – – (57)
Impairment losses (14) (148) (15) (40) (217)
Disposals and asset write-offs 16 6 – – 22
Transfer to assets held for sale – – 15 – 15
Impairment at 31 December 2015 (39) (1,439) (154) (122) (1,754)
Exchange adjustments (3) (266) – (3) (272)
Impairment losses (2) (15) – (5) (22)
Disposals and asset write-offs 35 40 11 – 86
Transfer to assets held for sale – 28 – – 28
Impairment at 31 December 2016 (9) (1,652) (143) (130) (1,934)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2015 (1,333) (5,469) (287) (122) (7,211)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31 December 2016 (1,193) (6,635) (367) (130) (8,325)
Net book value at 1 January 2015 563 5,550 134 2,073 8,320
Net book value at 31 December 2015 695 7,925 100 7,952 16,672
Net book value at 31 December 2016 963 8,508 60 9,245 18,776
The weighted average interest rate for capitalised borrowing costs in the year was 3.8% (2015 – 3.8%).
The net book value of computer software included £620 million (2015 – £407 million) of internally generated costs.
The charge for impairments in the year includes the impairments of Oncomed, Ansolar and Maxinutrition. The carrying value at
31 December 2016 of intangible assets, for which impairments have been charged or reversed in the year, following those impairments
or reversals, was £116 million (2015 – £308 million).
The patent expiry dates of the Group’s most significant assets, where relevant, are set out on pages 250 and 251.185 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
19. Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment losses, net of reversals, have been charged in the income statement as follows:
Amortisation Net impairment losses
2016 2015 2016 2015
£m £m £m £m
Cost of sales 582 532 7 143
Selling, general and administration 95 66 2 22
Research and development 119 140 13 52
796 738 22 217
Licences, patents, etc. includes a large number of acquired licences, patents, know-how agreements and marketing rights, which are either
marketed or in use, or still in development. Note 38, ‘Acquisitions and disposals’ gives details of additions through business combinations in
the year. The book values of the largest individual items are as follows:
2016 2015
£m £m
dolutegravir 1,487 1,585
Benlysta 1,019 1,083
Menveo 919 833
Bexsero 941 819
Men ABCWY 669 591
Fluarix/FluLaval 380 333
HIV assets acquired from BMS 277 –
Selzentry 188 208
Okairos technology platform 173 167
Others 2,455 2,306
8,508 7,925
Indefinite life brands comprise a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare products primarily acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop, Inc.
in 1994, Block Drug Company, Inc. in 2001, CNS, Inc. in 2006 and the Novartis Consumer Healthcare business in 2015, together with a
number of pharmaceutical brands from the acquisition of Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in 2009. The book values of the major brands are as follows:
2016 2015
£m £m
Voltaren 2,847 2,411
Otrivin 1,447 1,225
Fenistil 680 576
Theraflu 462 391
Panadol 354 361
Sensodyne 243 258
Lamisil 304 257
Breathe Right 199 217
Stiefel trade name 211 201
Excedrin 194 164
Physiogel 166 147
Polident 103 109
Others 2,035 1,635
9,245 7,952
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support.
The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and market
shares mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a reduction in the lives of the brands is considered to be relatively low. The Group
is not aware of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors which could limit their useful lives.
Accordingly, they are not amortised. The increase in carrying value in the year primarily reflects the impact of exchange rate movements.
Each brand is tested annually for impairment and other amortised intangible assets are tested when indicators of impairment arise. This
testing applies a fair value less costs of disposal methodology, generally using post-tax cash flow forecasts with a terminal value calculation
and a discount rate equal to the Group post-tax WACC of 7%, adjusted where appropriate for country and currency specific risks. This
valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, and therefore this valuation technique is
classified as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The main assumptions include future sales price and volume growth, product contribution, the
future expenditure required to maintain the product’s marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdictions and exchange rates. These
assumptions are based on past experience and are reviewed as part of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in
market conditions and sales erosion through competition. The terminal growth rates applied of between nil% and 5% are management’s
estimates of future long-term average growth rates of the relevant markets. In each case the valuations indicate sufficient headroom such that
a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is unlikely to result in an impairment of these intangible assets.186 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
20. Investments in associates and joint ventures
Joint 2016 Joint 2015
ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 20 187 207 8 332 340
Exchange adjustments 4 41 45 1 2 3
Additions 3 8 11 13 10 23
Disposals – – – – (143) (143)
Transfer from other investments – – – – 146 146
Distributions received (2) (1) (3) – (38) (38)
Other movements (2) – (2) – (165) (165)
(Loss)/profit after tax recognised in the consolidated income statement (4) 9 5 (2) 16 14
Other comprehensive income recognised in the consolidated
statement of comprehensive income – – – – 27 27
At 31 December 19 244 263 20 187 207
The Group held one significant associate at 31 December 2016, Innoviva, Inc. At 31 December 2016, the Group owned 32 million shares
or 29.5% of Innoviva, which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ. The company partnered with GSK in the development
of the long acting beta agonist vilanterol and currently receives royalty income from sales of products that contain this component, namely
Relvar/Breo Ellipta and Anoro Ellipta. It also retains a 15% economic interest in future royalties to be paid by GSK on sales of Closed Triple,
if approved and commercialised. The remaining 85% of the economic interest in these royalties will be due to Theravance Biopharma Inc.,
a company spun out of Innoviva in 2014, in which the Group holds 18.6% of the common stock. The investment in Innoviva had a market value
of £278 million at 31 December 2016 (2015 – £229 million).
Summarised balance sheet information, based on results information, in respect of Innoviva is set out below:
At 31 December At 31 December
2016 2015
£m £m
Non-current assets 146 143
Current assets 160 146
Current liabilities (16) (9)
Non-current liabilities (575) (513)
Net liabilities (285) (233)
2016 2015
£m £m
Interest in associated undertaking (84) (65)
Goodwill 84 64
Fair value and other adjustments 138 113
Carrying value at 31 December 138 112187 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
21. Other investments
2016 2015
£m £m
At 1 January 1,255 1,114
Exchange adjustments 211 38
Additions 96 120
Fair value gain on reclassification from investment in associate – 457
Other net fair value movements 130 323
Impairment losses (24) (258)
Transfer to investments in associates and joint ventures – (146)
Disposals (683) (393)
At 31 December 985 1,255
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments recorded at fair value at each balance
sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid
price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by management with reference to relevant available information, including the current
market value of similar instruments and discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets. Other investments included listed investments of
£580 million (2015 – £987 million). The decrease in the carrying value during the year was primarily due to the sale of the Group’s remaining
stake in Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited which had a book value at 31 December 2015 of £383 million. The most significant of the
investments held at 31 December 2016 was in Theravance Biopharma, Inc. in which the Group holds 18.6% of the common stock. This
investment had a fair value at 31 December 2016 of £248 million (2015 – £93 million). The other investments include equity stakes in
companies with which GSK has research collaborations, which provide access to biotechnology developments of potential interest and
interests in companies that arise from business divestments.
On disposal of investments, fair value movements are reclassified from equity to the income statement based on average cost for shares
acquired at different times.
The impairment losses recorded above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within Other operating income, together
with amounts reclassified from the fair value reserve on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially result from prolonged or
significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further declines in fair value
are immediately taken to the income statement.
The carrying value at 31 December of Other investments which have been impaired is as follows:
2016 2015
£m £m
Original cost 515 1,049
Cumulative impairments recognised in the income statement (314) (549)
Subsequent fair value increases 282 279
Carrying value at 31 December 483 779
22. Other non-current assets
2016 2015
£m £m
Amounts receivable under insurance contracts 602 477
Pension schemes in surplus 313 258
Other receivables 284 255
1,199 990188 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
23. Inventories
2016 2015
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 1,068 1,563
Work in progress 2,299 1,453
Finished goods 1,735 1,700
5,102 4,716
24. Trade and other receivables
2016 2015
£m £m
Trade receivables, net of provision for bad and doubtful debts 4,615 3,824
Accrued income 64 55
Other prepayments 335 307
Interest receivable 11 9
Employee loans and advances 17 36
Other receivables 984 1,384
6,026 5,615
Trade receivables included £9 million (2015 – £8 million) due from associates and joint ventures. Other receivables included £7 million
(2015– £nil) due from associates and joint ventures.
2016 2015
Bad and doubtful debt provision
£m £m
At 1 January 167 142
Exchange adjustments 23 (2)
Charge for the year 77 45
Subsequent recoveries of amounts provided for (59) (17)
Utilised (1) (1)
At 31 December 207 167
25. Cash and cash equivalents
2016 2015
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 1,462 1,114
Short-term deposits 3,435 4,716
4,897 5,830
26. Assets held for sale
2016 2015
£m £m
Property, plant and equipment 184 32
Goodwill 13 –
Other intangibles 12 5
Inventory 7 15
Other (1) (6)
215 46
Non-current assets and disposal groups are transferred to assets held for sale when it is expected that their carrying amounts will be
recovered principally through disposal and a sale is considered highly probable. They are held at the lower of carrying amount and fair value
less costs to sell.
Included within Assets held for sale are assets which were written down to fair value less costs to sell of £79 million (2015 – £36 million).
The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore, this valuation is classified as
level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.189 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
27. Trade and other payables
2016 2015
£m £m
Trade payables 3,596 3,120
Wages and salaries 1,236 1,069
Social security 120 118
ViiV Healthcare put option 1,319 –
Other payables 447 368
Deferred income 158 73
Customer return and rebate accruals 2,778 2,056
Other accruals 2,310 2,081
11,964 8,885
Trade and other payables included £36 million (2015 – £17 million) due to associates and joint ventures.
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable to customers, and included £2,218 million (2015 – £1,671 million) in respect of US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines, as
more fully described in the Group financial review on page 76. Accruals are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on
claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. As the amounts are estimated, they may not fully reflect the final outcome and
are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of accrual is
reviewed and adjusted quarterly in light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns made and any
changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the
future results of the Group.
Pfizer’s put option over its shareholding in ViiV Healthcare was recognised during 2016 and is currently exercisable. The table below shows
on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity of the Pfizer put option to reasonably possible changes in key
assumptions.
2016
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 65
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (55)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 36
10 cent depreciation of Euro (30)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 58.
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 205 177 125
US pension schemes 106 96 85
Other overseas pension schemes 140 135 123
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 90 59 70
541 467 403
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 304 291 216
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 43 36 34
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 90 59 70
Defined benefit schemes 437 386 320
Defined contribution pension schemes 104 81 83
541 467 403
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 135 127 102
Selling, general and administration 221 194 165
Research and development 81 65 53
437 386 320190 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees. These
arrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by state
schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions paid
in respect of each employee; or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable remuneration
and length of service.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been calculated using the projected unit method. In certain countries
pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of
the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised through the statement of comprehensive income. Discount rates are derived from AA rated
corporate bond yields except in countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds where government bond yields are used.
Discount rates are selected to reflect the term of the expected benefit payments. Projected inflation rate and pension increases are long-term
predictions based on the yield gap between long-term index-linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are determined by
adjusting the SAPS S2 standard mortality tables to reflect recent scheme experience. These rates are then projected to reflect improvements
in life expectancy in line with the CMI 2015 projections with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per year for both males and females. In
the US, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2014 white collar table adjusted to reflect recent experience. These rates are projected
using scale BB-2D to allow for future improvements in life expectancy.
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2036 for an individual then at the age of
60 is as follows:
UK US
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 27.8 29.8 27.2 28.9
Projected for 2036 29.6 31.9 28.9 30.6
The assets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts, either as specific assets or as a proportion of a general
fund, or are insurance contracts. Assets are invested in different classes in order to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments
are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment. The Group reviewed the investment strategy of the UK
plans in 2011 and the asset allocation for the UK plans has been adjusted to approximately 55% return seeking assets and 45% liability
matching assets. In 2013, the target asset allocation of the US plans was also updated to 55% return seeking assets and 45% liability
matching assets.
The Pension Plans are exposed to risk that arises because the estimated market value of the Plans’ assets might decline, the investment
returns might reduce, or the estimated value of the Plans’ liabilities might increase.
In line with the agreed mix of return seeking assets to generate future returns and liability matching assets to better match future pension
obligations, the Group has defined an overall long-term investment strategy for the Plans, with investments across a broad range of assets.
The main market risks within the asset and hedging portfolio are against credit risk, interest rates, long-term inflation, equities, property, and
bank counterparty risk.
The Plan liabilities are a series of future cash flows with relatively long duration. On an IAS 19R basis, these cash flows are sensitive to
changes in the expected long-term inflation rate and the discount rate (AA corporate bond yield curve) where an increase in long-term inflation
corresponds with an increase in the liabilities, and an increase in the discount rate corresponds with a decrease in the liabilities.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline
Beecham employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to
join a defined contribution scheme. In the US the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were merged
during 2001. In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the US.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK US Rest of World
2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 2.00 2.00 2.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 2.70 2.70 2.60
Discount rate 2.70 3.80 3.60 3.90 4.20 3.80 1.60 2.20 2.00
Expected pension increases 3.20 3.10 3.00 n/a n/a n/a 2.10 2.00 2.00
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 3.20 3.20 3.00 0.30 0.60 0.50
Inflation rate 3.20 3.10 3.00 2.25 2.25 2.25 1.50 1.40 1.40191 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income for the three years ended 31 December 2016
in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK US Rest of World Group Group
2016 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 70 66 110 246 31
Past service cost 52 1 1 54 3
Net interest cost 9 27 20 56 56
Gains from settlements – – (28) (28) –
Expenses 7 12 – 19 –
138 106 103 347 90
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (165) (27) (224) (416) (59)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK Group
(restated) US Rest of World (restated) Group
2015 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 77 67 110 254 22
Past service cost/(credit) 25 2 (10) 17 (8)
Net interest cost 14 22 13 49 52
Gains from settlements – 1 (9) (8) (7)
Expenses 7 4 4 15 –
123 96 108 327 59
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income 82 (30) 147 199 62
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK Group
(restated) US Rest of World (restated) Group
2014 £m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 68 66 90 224 24
Past service cost/(credit) 7 1 (11) (3) (8)
Net interest (credit)/cost (7) 14 14 21 54
Gains from settlements – – (4) (4) –
Expenses 6 4 2 12 –
74 85 91 250 70
Remeasurements recorded in the statement of
comprehensive income (629) (223) (244) (1,096) (85)
The amounts included within past service costs include £52 million (2015 – £25 million; 2014 – £7 million) of augmentation costs of which
£23 million is arising from major restructuring programmes (see Note 29, ‘Other provisions’).192 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
A summarised balance sheet presentation of the Group defined benefit pension schemes and other post-retirement benefits is set out in the
table below:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Recognised in Other non-current assets:
Pension schemes in surplus 313 258 93
Recognised in Pensions and other post-employment benefits:
Pension schemes in deficit (2,397) (1,842) (1,782)
Post-retirement benefits (1,693) (1,387) (1,397)
(4,090) (3,229) (3,179)
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other
defined benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK US Rest of World Group
At 31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 5,357 1,358 486 7,201
– unlisted 1,545 – 14 1,559
Property: – unlisted 314 216 28 558
Corporate bonds: – listed 292 213 96 601
– unlisted 321 – 24 345
Government bonds: – listed 6,165 815 739 7,719
Insurance contracts 856 – 637 1,493
Other assets (2,267) 288 73 (1,906)
Fair value of assets 12,583 2,890 2,097 17,570
Present value of scheme obligations (12,884) (3,752) (3,018) (19,654)
Net obligation (301) (862) (921) (2,084)
Included in Other non-current assets 276 – 37 313
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (577) (862) (958) (2,397)
(301) (862) (921) (2,084)
Actual return on plan assets 2,473 153 99 2,725
The index-linked gilts held as part of the UK repo programme are included in government bonds. The related loan is included within ‘Other
assets’ at a value of £(1,698) million (2015 – £(2,215) million; 2014 – £(537) million).
UK Group
(restated) US Rest of World (restated)
At 31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 5,187 1,235 355 6,777
– unlisted 481 – 1 482
Property: – unlisted 302 175 8 485
Corporate bonds: – listed 251 727 76 1,054
– unlisted 232 – 2 234
Government bonds: – listed 5,687 184 664 6,535
Insurance contracts 755 – 439 1,194
Other assets (2,611) 180 205 (2,226)
Fair value of assets 10,284 2,501 1,750 14,535
Present value of scheme obligations (10,601) (3,134) (2,384) (16,119)
Net obligation (317) (633) (634) (1,584)
Included in Other non-current assets 232 – 26 258
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (549) (633) (660) (1,842)
(317) (633) (634) (1,584)
Actual return on plan assets (17) (30) 23 (24)193 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK Group
(restated) US Rest of World (restated)
At 31 December 2014 £m £m £m £m
Equities: – listed 5,358 1,203 325 6,886
– unlisted 247 – 9 256
Property: – unlisted 256 146 4 406
Corporate bonds: – listed 1,358 921 97 2,376
– unlisted 247 – 25 272
Government bonds: – listed 2,445 152 603 3,200
Insurance contracts 803 – 378 1,181
Other assets (163) 109 88 34
Fair value of assets 10,551 2,531 1,529 14,611
Present value of scheme obligations (10,991) (3,133) (2,176) (16,300)
Net obligation (440) (602) (647) (1,689)
Included in Other non-current assets 72 – 21 93
Included in Pensions and other post-employment benefits (512) (602) (668) (1,782)
(440) (602) (647) (1,689)
Actual return on plan assets 913 99 181 1,193
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK Group
(restated) US Rest of World (restated) Group
Movements in fair values of assets £m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1 January 2014 9,878 2,514 1,467 13,859 –
Exchange adjustments – 154 (101) 53 –
Interest income 437 112 47 596 –
Expenses (6) (4) (2) (12) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (65) (65) –
Remeasurement 476 (13) 134 597 –
Employer contributions 151 19 102 272 70
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 10 14 10
Benefits paid (389) (251) (63) (703) (80)
Assets at 31 December 2014 10,551 2,531 1,529 14,611 –
Exchange adjustments – 147 (52) 95 –
Additions through business combinations – – 233 233 –
Interest income 374 95 33 502 –
Expenses (7) (4) (4) (15) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (16) (16) –
Remeasurement (391) (125) (10) (526) –
Employer contributions 164 132 112 408 82
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 14 18 14
Benefits paid (411) (275) (89) (775) (96)
Assets at 31 December 2015 10,284 2,501 1,750 14,535 –
Exchange adjustments - 459 305 764 –
Interest income 385 108 37 530 –
Expenses (7) (12) – (19) –
Settlements and curtailments – – (110) (110) –
Remeasurement 2,088 45 62 2,195 –
Employer contributions 319 31 131 481 91
Scheme participants’ contributions 4 – 14 18 17
Benefits paid (490) (242) (92) (824) (108)
Assets at 31 December 2016 12,583 2,890 2,097 17,570 –
In addition to the above assets, there are assets held by UK defined contribution plans amounting to £1,862 million at December 2016
(2015 – £1,591 million; 2014 – £1,501 million) which had previously been included in these figures. Prior year figures have been restated to
reflect this change.
During 2016, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK pension schemes totalling £191 million (2015 – £85 million;
2014 – £85 million) and £nil (2015 – £111 million; 2014 – £nil) to the US scheme. In 2016, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees
of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit identified at the 31 December 2014 actuarial
funding valuation. Based on the funding agreements following the 2014 valuation, the additional contributions to eliminate the pension deficit
are expected to be £123 million in 2017. The contributions were based on a government bond yield curve approach to selecting the
discount rate; the rate chosen included an allowance for expected investment returns which reflected the asset mix of the schemes.
Employer contributions for 2017, including special funding contributions, are estimated to be approximately £362 million in respect of
defined benefit pension schemes and £100 million in respect of post-retirement benefits.194 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
UK Group
(restated) US Rest of World (restated) Group
Movements in defined benefit obligations £m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1 January 2014 (9,766) (2,793) (1,913) (14,472) (1,246)
Exchange adjustments – (188) 139 (49) (68)
Service cost (68) (66) (90) (224) (24)
Past service cost (7) (1) 11 3 8
Interest cost (430) (126) (61) (617) (54)
Settlements and curtailments – – 69 69 –
Other movements – – (6) (6) 2
Remeasurement (1,105) (210) (378) (1,693) (85)
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (10) (14) (10)
Benefits paid 389 251 63 703 80
Obligations at 31 December 2014 (10,991) (3,133) (2,176) (16,300) (1,397)
Exchange adjustments – (184) 78 (106) (64)
Additions through business combinations – – (397) (397) (11)
Service cost (77) (67) (110) (254) (22)
Past service cost (25) (2) 10 (17) 8
Interest cost (388) (117) (46) (551) (52)
Settlements and curtailments – (1) 25 24 7
Remeasurement 473 95 157 725 62
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (14) (18) (14)
Benefits paid 411 275 89 775 96
Obligations at 31 December 2015 (10,601) (3,134) (2,384) (16,119) (1,387)
Exchange adjustments – (586) (396) (982) (248)
Service cost (70) (66) (110) (246) (31)
Past service cost (52) (1) (1) (54) (3)
Interest cost (394) (135) (57) (586) (56)
Settlements and curtailments – – 138 138 –
Remeasurement (2,253) (72) (286) (2,611) (59)
Scheme participants’ contributions (4) – (14) (18) (17)
Benefits paid 490 242 92 824 108
Obligations at 31 December 2016 (12,884) (3,752) (3,018) (19,654) (1,693)
In addition to the above obligations, there are obligations of UK defined contribution plans amounting to £1,862 million at December 2016
(2015 – £1,591 million; 2014 – £1,501 million) which had previously been included in these figures. Prior year figures have been restated
to reflect this change.
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
Funded (18,974) (15,552) (15,849)
Unfunded (680) (567) (451)
(19,654) (16,119) (16,300)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme,
together with the assumption for future medical inflation of 7% (2015 – 6.5%), grading down to 5% in 2025 and thereafter. At 31 December
2016, the US post-retirement healthcare scheme obligation was £1,463 million (2015 – £1,208 million; 2014 – £1,191 million). Post-
retirement benefits are unfunded.195 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows:
2015 2014
2016 (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
At 1 January (1,584) (1,689) (613)
Exchange adjustments (218) (11) 4
Additions through business combinations – (164) –
Service cost (246) (254) (224)
Past service cost (54) (17) 3
Interest (cost)/income (56) (49) (21)
Settlements and curtailments 28 8 4
Remeasurements:
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest 2,195 (526) 597
Gain/(loss) from change in demographic assumptions 85 120 (64)
(Loss)/gain from change in financial assumptions (2,770) 362 (1,578)
Experience (losses)/gains 74 243 (51)
Employer contributions 481 408 272
Expenses/other movements (19) (15) (18)
At 31 December (2,084) (1,584) (1,689)
The remeasurements included within post-retirement benefits are detailed below:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Gain from change in demographic assumptions – 15 10
(Loss)/gain from change in financial assumptions (81) 59 (120)
Experience gains/(losses) 22 (12) 25
(59) 62 (85)196 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
28. Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Active 4,576 5,510 5,422
Retired 9,574 7,969 7,967
Deferred 5,504 4,231 4,412
19,654 17,710 17,801
The post-retirement benefit obligation analysed by membership category is as follows:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Active 594 499 590
Retired 1,099 887 805
Deferred – 1 2
1,693 1,387 1,397
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows:
2016 2015 2014
years years years
Pension benefits 16 16 16
Post-retirement benefits 12 12 12
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes in assumptions used on the benefit obligations and on the 2017 annual defined benefit pension and post retirement costs.
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 27
Decrease in annual post-retirement benefits cost (1)
Increase in pension obligation 769
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 48
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 20
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 2
Increase in pension obligation 548
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 43
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 4
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 77
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 18
Increase in pension obligation 491197 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
29. Other provisions
Legal Major Employee
and other restructuring related Other
disputes programmes provisions provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2016 352 816 275 321 1,764
Exchange adjustments 67 100 32 37 236
Charge for the year 162 163 58 66 449
Reversed unused – (140) (9) (7) (156)
Unwinding of discount (1) 4 – 13 16
Utilised (233) (368) (41) (108) (750)
Reclassifications and other movements (3) 2 (9) (26) (36)
Transfer to Pension obligations – (23) – – (23)
At 31 December 2016 344 554 306 296 1,500
To be settled within one year 296 363 90 99 848
To be settled after one year 48 191 216 197 652
At 31 December 2016 344 554 306 296 1,500
Legal and other disputes Major restructuring programmes
The Group is involved in a substantial number of legal and other In 2013, the Group initiated the Major Change restructuring
disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in programme focused on opportunities to simplify supply chain
Note 46 ‘Legal proceedings’. Provisions for legal and other disputes processes, build the Group’s capabilities in manufacturing and
include amounts relating to product liability, anti-trust, government R&D and restructure the European Pharmaceuticals business.
investigations (principally relating to the SFO related investigation),
The Pharmaceuticals restructuring programme, announced in
contract terminations, self insurance and environmental clean-up.
October 2014, has been focused on rescaling commercial
The charge for the year of £162 million (net of reversals and operations, global support functions and certain R&D/manufacturing
estimated insurance recoveries) primarily related to provisions operations across Pharmaceuticals. In addition, an integration
for product liability cases regarding Paxil and other products, restructuring programme was initiated in 2015, following the
commercial disputes and various other government investigations. completion of the Novartis transaction. All of these restructuring and
integration programmes are now reported together as one combined
The discount on the provisions increased by £1 million in 2016
major restructuring programme.
(2015 – decreased by £1 million) due to higher discount rates in
2016 compared to 2015. The discount was calculated using Provisions for staff severance payments are made when management
risk-adjusted projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return. has made a formal decision to eliminate certain positions and this
has been communicated to the groups of employees affected and
In respect of product liability claims related to certain products,
appropriate consultation procedures completed, where appropriate.
there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
No provision is made for staff severance payments that are made
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required to
immediately.
cover unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may
vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome Pension augmentations arising from staff redundancies of
of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement £23 million (2015 – £25 million) have been charged during the
negotiations. year and then transferred to the pension obligations provision as
shown in Note 28, ‘Pensions and other post-employment benefits’.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these
Asset write-downs have been recognised as impairments of
matters may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over
property, plant and equipment in Note 17, ‘Property, plant and
many years. Litigation proceedings, including the various appeal
equipment’. The majority of the amounts provided are expected
procedures, often take many years to reach resolution, and
to be utilised in the next two years.
out-of-court settlement discussions can also often be protracted.
Employee related provisions
The Group is in potential settlement discussions in a number of
Employee related provisions include obligations for certain medical
the disputes for which amounts have been provided and, based
benefits to disabled employees and their spouses in the US. At
on its current assessment of the progress of these disputes,
31 December 2016, the provision for these benefits amounted to
estimates that £296 million of the amount provided at 31 December
£135 million (2015 – £111 million). Other employee benefits reflect
2016 will be settled within one year. At 31 December 2016, it was
a variety of provisions for severance costs, jubilee awards and other
expected that £nil (2015 – £nil) of the provision made for legal and
long-service benefits.
other disputes will be reimbursed by third party insurers. For a
discussion of legal issues, see Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’. Other provisions
Included in other provisions are insurance provisions of £40 million
(2015 – £98 million), onerous property lease provisions of
£113 million (2015 – £135 million) and a number of other provisions
including vehicle insurance and regulatory matters.198 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
30. Other non-current liabilities
2016 2015
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 66 64
Consumer Healthcare put option liability 7,420 6,287
Other payables 959 756
8,445 7,107
The Consumer Healthcare put option liability relates to the ability of Novartis to put its shares in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture to
GSK at certain points in the future, commencing in 2018. The liability is recorded at the present value of the estimated redemption value,
applying a discount rate of 7%, of the expected redemption amount, calculated using an average of relevant public company multiples
approach with no premium or discount, based on the forecast revenue and earnings of the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, which forms
part of GSK’s Consumer Healthcare segment. The remeasurement charge in the year was £1,133 million (2015 – £83 million), see Note 7,
‘Other operating income/(expense)’. The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to
reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
2016
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement
£m
10% increase in sales forecasts or sales multiple applied 726
10% decrease in sales forecasts or sales multiple applied (726)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 42
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (36)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 203
10 cent depreciation of Euro (171)
31. Net debt
2016 2015
Listing exchange £m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 89 75
Cash and cash equivalents 4,897 5,830
4,986 5,905
Short-term borrowings:
Commercial paper (1,094) –
Bank loans and overdrafts (332) (435)
Obligations under finance leases (23) (23)
0.7% US$ US Medium Term Note 2016 New York Stock Exchange – (850)
1.50% US$ US Medium Term Note 2017 New York Stock Exchange (1,612) –
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange (1,068) –
(4,129) (1,308)
Long-term borrowings:
1.50% US$ US Medium Term Note 2017 New York Stock Exchange – (1,358)
5.625% € European Medium Term Note 2017 London Stock Exchange – (918)
5.65% US$ US Medium Term Note 2018 New York Stock Exchange (2,216) (1,869)
0.625% € European Medium Term Note 2019 London Stock Exchange (1,276) (1,096)
2.85% US$ US Medium Term Note 2022 New York Stock Exchange (1,603) (1,351)
2.8% US$ US Medium Term Note 2023 New York Stock Exchange (999) (841)
1.375% € European Medium Term Note 2024 London Stock Exchange (845) (726)
4.00% € European Medium Term Note 2025 London Stock Exchange (635) (546)
3.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2027 London Stock Exchange (593) (592)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2033 London Stock Exchange (986) (985)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 London Stock Exchange (401) (338)
6.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2038 New York Stock Exchange (2,199) (1,854)
6.375% £ European Medium Term Note 2039 London Stock Exchange (695) (695)
5.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2042 London Stock Exchange (988) (987)
4.2% US$ US Medium Term Note 2043 New York Stock Exchange (395) (333)
4.25% £ European Medium Term Note 2045 London Stock Exchange (789) (788)
Obligations under finance leases (41) (47)
(14,661) (15,324)
Net debt (13,804) (10,727)199 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
31. Net debt continued
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At 31 December 2016, they included US Treasury Notes and other
government bonds. The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31 December 2016 was approximately 0.7% (2015 – approximately
0.7%). Liquid investment balances at 31 December 2016 earning interest at floating rates amount to £89 million (2015 – £4 million). Liquid
investment balances at 31 December 2016 earning interest at fixed rates amount to £nil (2015 – £71 million).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2016 was approximately 1.3% (2015 – approximately 1.3%).
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2016 earning interest at floating and fixed rates amount to £4,584 million and £3 million
respectively (2015 – £5,654 million and £nil).
GSK’s policy regarding the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents is referred to in Note 42, ‘Financial instruments and related
disclosures’.
Short-term borrowings
GSK has a $10 billion (£8.1 billion) US commercial paper programme, of which $1.4 billion (£1.1 billion) was in issue at 31 December 2016
(2015 – no issuances). GSK also has £1.9 billion five year committed facilities and $2.5 billion (£2.0 billion) of 364 day committed facilities.
The five-year committed facilities were agreed in September 2015 and were extended by one year to 2021 in September 2016. The 364 day
committed facilities were agreed in September 2016. Liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents were as shown in the table on page 198.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31 December 2016 was 0.88% (2015 – no issuances).
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31 December 2016 was 3.47% (2015 – 3.49%).
The average effective pre-swap interest rate of notes classified as short term at 31 December 2016 was 3.2% (2015 – 0.04%).
Long-term borrowings
At the year-end, GSK had long-term borrowings of £14.7 billion (2015 – £15.3 billion) of which £11.1 billion (2015 – £10 billion) falls due
in more than five years. The average effective pre-swap interest rate of all notes in issue at 31 December 2016 was approximately 4.1%
(2015 – approximately 3.9%).
Long-term borrowings repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between 1.54% and 6.42%. The repayment dates range
from 2022 to 2045.
Pledged assets
The Group held pledged investments in US Treasury Notes with a par value of $105 million (£85 million), (2015 – $105 million (£71 million))
as security against irrevocable letters of credit issued on the Group’s behalf in respect of the Group’s self-insurance activity. Provisions in
respect of self-insurance are included within the provisions for legal and other disputes discussed in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. In addition,
£23 million (2015 – £37 million) of assets included in Note 22, ‘Other non-current assets’, which do not form part of Net debt, were pledged
as collateral against future rental payments under operating lease arrangements entered into by Human Genome Sciences, Inc. prior to its
acquisition by the Group.
Finance lease obligations
2016 2015
£m £m
Rental payments due within one year 25 25
Rental payments due between one and two years 23 21
Rental payments due between two and three years 12 15
Rental payments due between three and four years 7 6
Rental payments due between four and five years – 6
Rental payments due after five years – 4
Total future rental payments 67 77
Future finance charges (3) (7)
Total finance lease obligations 64 70
32. Contingent liabilities
At 31 December 2016, contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of business,
amounted to £281 million (2015 – £200 million). At 31 December 2016, £1 million (2015 – £nil) of financial assets were pledged as collateral
for contingent liabilities. Provision is made for the outcome of tax, legal and other disputes where it is both probable that the Group will suffer
an outflow of funds and it is possible to make a reliable estimate of that outflow. At 31 December 2016, other than for those disputes where
provision has been made, it was not possible to make a reliable estimate of the potential outflow of funds that might be required to settle
disputes where the possibility of there being an outflow was more than remote. Descriptions of the significant tax, legal and other disputes
to which the Group is a party are set out in Note 14, ‘Taxation’ and Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings’.200 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
33. Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary Shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2014 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2015 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2016 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2014 5,342,206,696 1,336 2,595
Issued under employee share schemes 13,090,536 3 164
At 31 December 2014 5,355,297,232 1,339 2,759
Issued under employee share schemes 6,010,415 1 72
At 31 December 2015 5,361,307,647 1,340 2,831
Issued under employee share schemes 7,008,415 2 87
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts – – 36
At 31 December 2016 5,368,316,062 1,342 2,954
31 December 2016 31 December 2015
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 71,382 99,833
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,560,302 4,538,859
At 31 December 2016, of the issued share capital, 42,710,419 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 458,205,950 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,867,399,693 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of the
shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 43, ‘Employee share schemes’.201 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
34. Movements in equity
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £(3,172) million at 31 December 2016 (2015 – £943 million; 2014 – £165 million)
of which £329 million (2015 – £283 million; 2014 – £337 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative
translation exchange in equity is as follows:
Net translation exchange included in:
Non- Total
Retained Fair value controlling translation
earnings reserve interests exchange
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 586 (3) (133) 450
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (504) 7 16 (481)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (219) – – (219)
At 31 December 2014 (137) 4 (117) (250)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (624) 6 8 (610)
At 31 December 2015 (761) 10 (109) (860)
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 633 13 603 1,249
At 31 December 2016 (128) 23 494 389
The analysis of other comprehensive income by equity category is as follows:
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2016 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges 633 13 – 646
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 251 – 251
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (245) – (245)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 51 – 51
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 1 – 1
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – 603 603
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans (475) – – (475)
Tax remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans 126 – – 126
Other comprehensive income for the year 284 75 603 962
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2015 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (624) 6 – (618)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 416 – 416
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (91) – (91)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (346) – (346)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 36 – 36
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – 2 – 2
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 2 – 2
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures (77) – – (77)
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – 8 8
Remeasurement gains on defined benefit plans 261 – – 261
Tax on remeasurement gains in defined benefit plans (80) – – (80)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (520) 25 8 (487)202 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
34. Movements in equity continued
Non-
Retained Other controlling
earnings reserves interests Total
2014 £m £m £m £m
Items that may be subsequently reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets and net investment hedges (504) 7 – (497)
Reclassification of exchange on liquidation or disposal of overseas subsidiaries (219) – – (219)
Deferred tax on exchange movements (2) – – (2)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 29 – 29
Deferred tax on fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (78) – (78)
Reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – (155) – (155)
Deferred tax on reclassification of fair value movements on available-for-sale investments – 58 – 58
Reclassification of cash flow hedges to income statement – (5) – (5)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges – 5 – 5
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges – (1) – (1)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint ventures 18 – – 18
Items that will not be reclassified to income statement:
Exchange movements on overseas net assets of non-controlling interests – – 16 16
Remeasurement losses on defined benefit plans (1,181) – – (1,181)
Deferred tax on remeasurement losses in defined benefit plans 262 – – 262
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year (1,626) (140) 16 (1,750)
The analysis of other reserves is as follows:
ESOP Trust Fair value Cash flow Other
shares reserve hedge reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 (356) 413 (12) 2,108 2,153
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (155) (5) – (160)
Net fair value movement in the year – 16 4 – 20
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (245) – – – (245)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 450 – – – 450
Forward contract on non-controlling interest – – – 21 21
At 31 December 2014 (151) 274 (13) 2,129 2,239
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals – (356) 2 – (354)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairments – 10 – – 10
Net fair value movement in the year – 367 2 – 369
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (99) – – – (99)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 175 – – – 175
At 31 December 2015 (75) 295 (9) 2,129 2,340
Transferred to income and expense in the year on disposals (16) (268) – – (284)
Transferred to income and expense in the year on impairments – 23 – – 23
Net fair value movement in the year – 330 6 – 336
Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts (576) – – – (576)
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 381 – – – 381
At 31 December 2016 (286) 380 (3) 2,129 2,220
Other reserves include various non-distributable merger and pre-merger reserves amounting to £1,849 million at 31 December 2016
(2015 – £1,849 million; 2014 – £1,849 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as a result of the share
buy-back programme amounting to £280 million at 31 December 2016 (2015 – £280 million; 2014 – £280 million).203 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
35. Related party transactions
At 31 December 2016, GSK owned 32 million shares or 29.5% of Innoviva Inc. which is a biopharmaceutical company listed on NASDAQ.
GSK began recognising Innoviva as an associate on 1 September 2015. The royalties due from GSK to Innoviva in the year were £108 million
(£28 million from 1 September to 31 December 2015). At 31 December 2016, the balance payable by GSK to Innoviva was £36 million.
At 31 December 2016, GSK held a 50% interest in Japan Vaccine Co. Ltd (JVC) through its subsidiary GlaxoSmithKline K.K. This joint
venture with Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd is primarily responsible for the development and marketing of certain prophylactic vaccines in Japan.
During 2016, GSK sold £43 million (2015 – £27 million) of its vaccine products into the joint venture. At 31 December 2016, the trading
balance due to GSK from JVC was £9 million and the balance payable by GSK to JVC was £nil. Loans of £6 million to JVC, £2 million to
Medicxi Ventures I LP and £2 million to Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP remained due to GSK at 31 December 2016.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors and CET is given in Note 9, ‘Employee costs’.
36. Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to
operating cash flows
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Profit after tax 1,062 8,372 2,831
Tax on profits 877 2,154 137
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (5) (14) (30)
Finance expense net of finance income 664 653 659
Depreciation 978 892 780
Amortisation of intangible assets 796 738 704
Impairment and assets written off 226 822 205
Profit on sale of businesses (5) (9,308) –
Profit on sale of intangible assets (178) (349) (255)
Profit on sale of investments in associates – (843) –
Profit on sale of equity investments (254) (342) (149)
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase) in inventories 70 (111) (529)
(Increase)/decrease in trade receivables (188) 98 347
Increase in trade payables 96 40 91
Decrease/(increase) in other receivables 381 (593) 95
Contingent consideration paid (see Note 39) (358) (121) (4)
Other non-cash increase in contingent consideration liabilities 2,281 1,986 770
Increase in other payables 1,989 276 (68)
(Decrease)/increase in pension and other provisions (621) 100 (41)
Share-based incentive plans 319 368 332
Fair value adjustments (3) – 313
Other (21) (187) 96
7,044 (3,741) 3,453
Cash generated from operations 8,106 4,631 6,284204 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
37. Reconciliation of net cash flow to
movement in net debt
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Net debt at beginning of year (10,727) (14,377) (12,645)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and bank overdrafts (1,164) 1,503 (1,287)
Decrease/(increase) in liquid investments – 2 (1)
Net increase in long-term loans – – (1,960)
Net (increase in)/repayment of short-term loans (148) 2,412 1,709
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 18 25 23
Exchange adjustments (1,781) (268) (193)
Other non-cash movements (2) (24) (23)
Movement in net debt (3,077) 3,650 (1,732)
Net debt at end of year (13,804) (10,727) (14,377)
At 1 January Reclass- At 31 December
2016 Exchange Other ifications Acquisitions Cash flow 2016
Analysis of changes in net debt £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 75 14 – – – – 89
Cash and cash equivalents 5,830 297 – – 41 (1,271) 4,897
Overdrafts (344) (14) – – – 66 (292)
5,486 283 – – 41 (1,205) 4,605
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper – (27) – – – (1,067) (1,094)
European and US Medium Term Notes (850) (414) – (2,281) – 865 (2,680)
Other (114) (8) 3 (16) – 72 (63)
(964) (449) 3 (2,297) – (130) (3,837)
Debt due after one year:
European and US Medium Term Notes (15,277) (1,624) – 2,281 – – (14,620)
Other (47) (5) (5) 16 – – (41)
(15,324) (1,629) (5) 2,297 – – (14,661)
Net debt (10,727) (1,781) (2) – 41 (1,335) (13,804)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note 31, ‘Net debt’.205 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
38. Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of significant subsidiaries and associates, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2016
Acquisitions
GSK completed two small business acquisitions during 2016.
Cash consideration of £24 million was paid in the year to acquire the HIV R&D preclinical and discovery stage portfolio from Bristol Myers
Squibb. Further consideration, contingent on commercial milestones and future sales performance, may be due, and an initial estimate of
£40 million was recognised for this contingent consideration. Intangible assets acquired were valued at £57 million and goodwill of £7 million
was recognised.
GSK formed Galvani Bioelectronics Limited during the year and acquired intangible assets of £45 million and cash and cash equivalents of
£41 million from Verily Life Sciences LLC in return for a 45% shareholding in Galvani Bioelectronics. The fair value of this shareholding was
£47 million, and GSK also recognised a credit of £39 million in non-controlling interests representing Verily’s share of the net assets it
contributed.
Business disposals
GSK also made a number of small business disposals in the period for net cash consideration of £72 million. In addition, deferred
consideration receivable of £43 million was recognised.
Cash flows
Business Business
acquisitions disposals
£m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/received after purchase adjustments (24) 72
Cash and cash equivalents acquired 41 –
Cash inflow 17 72
In addition, GSK made cash investments of £11 million into associates and joint ventures.
2015
Acquisitions
Novartis Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines businesses
The three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving the Consumer Healthcare, Vaccines and Oncology businesses
completed on 2 March 2015.
GSK and Novartis have contributed their respective Consumer Healthcare businesses into a Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture in a
non-cash transaction. GSK has an equity interest of 63.5% and majority control of the Joint Venture. In addition, GSK has acquired Novartis’
global Vaccines business (excluding influenza vaccines) for an initial cash consideration of $5.25 billion (£3.417 billion) with contingent
consideration representing subsequent potential milestone payments of up to $1.8 billion (£1.2 billion) arising on the achievement of specified
development targets and ongoing royalties based on the future sales performance of certain products, and so the total amount payable is
unlimited. The first milestone of $450 million (£300 million) was paid on 26 March 2015.
Other business acquisitions
In addition, GSK completed one smaller Vaccines business acquisition for cash consideration of £120 million, net of cash acquired, and the
fair value of existing investments of £15 million. This represented goodwill of £22 million and intangible assets of £124 million less other net
liabilities of £11 million.206 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
38. Acquisitions and disposals continued
The fair values of the assets acquired in business combinations, including goodwill, are set out in the table below.
Novartis
Consumer Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines
business business Other
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired:
Intangible assets 6,003 2,680 124
Property, plant and equipment 249 434 1
Inventory 257 347 –
Trade and other receivables 400 162 2
Other assets including cash and cash equivalents 304 283 19
Trade and other payables (402) (107) (3)
Deferred tax liabilities (1,154) (78) (26)
Other liabilities (165) (299) –
5,492 3,422 117
Non-controlling interest (2,150) (19) –
Goodwill 774 576 22
4,116 3,979 139
Consideration settled by shares in GSK Consumer Healthcare Holdings 4,116 – –
Cash consideration paid after purchase adjustments – 3,461 124
Fair value of equity investment disposal – – 15
Contingent consideration – 594 –
Deferred tax on contingent consideration – (52) –
Loss on settlement of pre-existing relationships – (24) –
Total consideration 4,116 3,979 139
The non-controlling interest in the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture, calculated applying the full goodwill method, represents Novartis’
share of the net assets it contributed to the Joint Venture together with attributable goodwill.
The goodwill in the businesses acquired represents the potential for further synergies arising from combining the acquired businesses with
GSK’s existing businesses together with the value of the workforce acquired. The majority of the goodwill recognised is not expected to be
deductible for tax purposes.
Total transaction costs recognised in 2014 and 2015 for the acquisitions from Novartis amounted to £102 million.
Between 2 March 2015 and 31 December 2015, turnover of £1,941 million arising from the Novartis Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines
businesses was included in Group turnover. If the businesses had been acquired at the beginning of the year, it is estimated that Group
turnover in 2015 would have been approximately £320 million higher. These businesses have been integrated into the Group’s existing
activities and it is not practical to identify the impact on the Group profit in the period.
Disposals
Oncology
GSK has divested its marketed Oncology business, related R&D activities and rights to its AKT inhibitor and also granted commercialisation
partner rights for future oncology products to Novartis for consideration of $16 billion (£10,395 million) before purchase adjustments.
Other business disposals
GSK also made a number of small business disposals in the period for net cash consideration of £309 million. Profit on disposal of the
businesses has been determined as follows:
Oncology Other
£m £m
Cash consideration including currency forwards and purchase adjustments 10,060 309
Net assets sold:
Goodwill (497) (14)
Intangible assets (516) (107)
Property, plant and equipment – (25)
Inventory – (51)
Cash – (5)
Other net assets – (6)
(1,013) (208)
Loss on currency forwards booked in 2014 299 –
Disposal costs (118) (21)
Profit on disposal 9,228 80207 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
38. Acquisitions and disposals continued
Investments in associates and joint ventures
In March 2015, GSK sold half of its shareholding in Aspen, representing 6.2% of the issued share capital of the company, for £571 million in
cash. As a result of the sale, the Group was no longer considered to have the ability to exert significant influence over Aspen and the Group’s
remaining investment was transferred from Investments in associates to Other investments.
£m
Cash consideration 571
Net book value of shares (143)
Reclassification of exchange from other comprehensive income (30)
Transaction fees (7)
Other items (5)
Profit on disposal 386
Business Business Associates and
acquisitions disposals JV disposals Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration (paid)/received after purchase adjustments (3,585) 10,369 571 7,355
Cash and cash equivalents acquired/(divested) 404 (5) – 399
Deferred cash proceeds – (38) – (38)
Contingent consideration paid (338) – – (338)
Transaction costs and other (22) (80) (7) (109)
Cash (outflow)/inflow in 2015 (3,541) 10,246 564 7,269
In addition, GSK made cash investments of £16 million into associates and joint ventures.
2014
Acquisitions
There were no acquisitions in 2014.
Acquisition and integration costs of £141 million arising on the proposed three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG were
expensed in 2014, of which £104 million was paid in cash in the year.
Disposals
During the year, £225 million was received as deferred consideration from the sale of the anti-coagulant business completed in 2013
and £1 million from the disposal of an associate.
GSK also made cash investments of £9 million into associates.
Business
acquisitions Associates and
and disposals joint ventures Total
Cash flows £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid – 9 9
Transaction costs paid 104 – 104
Purchase of businesses and associates 104 9 113
Net cash proceeds from disposals 225 1 226208 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
39. Contingent consideration liabilities
The consideration for certain acquisitions includes amounts contingent on future events such as development milestones or sales
performance. The Group has provided for the fair value of this contingent consideration as follows:
Shionogi-
ViiV Novartis
Healthcare Vaccines Other Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2014 923 – 1 924
Remeasurement through goodwill – – (4) (4)
Remeasurement through income statement 768 – 2 770
Cash payments: operating cash flows (4) – – (4)
Cash payments: purchases of businesses (3) – – (3)
Other movements – – 41 41
At 31 December 2014 1,684 – 40 1,724
Additions through business combinations – 594 – 594
Remeasurement through income statement 1,874 111 1 1,986
Cash payments: operating cash flows (121) – – (121)
Cash payments: purchases of businesses (38) (300) – (338)
Other movements 10 – – 10
At 31 December 2015 3,409 405 41 3,855
Additions through business combinations 154 – 40 194
Remeasurement through income statement 2,162 152 (33) 2,281
Cash payments: operating cash flows (351) (5) (2) (358)
Cash payments: purchases of businesses (66) (7) – (73)
Other movements (4) – 1 (3)
At 31 December 2016 5,304 545 47 5,896
The additions in the year represented the recognition of the preferential dividends payable to Shionogi of £154 million and a contingent
consideration liability on the acquisition of the HIV business from BMS of £40 million.
Of the contingent consideration payable at 31 December 2016, £561 million (2015 – £306 million) is expected to be paid within one year.
The consideration payable for the acquisition of the Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and the Novartis Vaccines business is expected to
be paid over a number of years. As a result, the total estimated liabilities are discounted to their present values, shown above. The Shionogi-
ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is discounted at 8.5% and the Novartis Vaccines contingent consideration liability is
discounted partly at 8% and partly at 9%.
The Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare contingent consideration liability is calculated based on the forecast sales performance of specified products,
principally dolutegravir, over the life of those products.
The table below shows on an indicative basis the income statement and balance sheet sensitivity to reasonably possible changes in key
inputs to the valuations of the contingent consideration liabilities.
Shionogi- Novartis
ViiV Healthcare Vaccines
Increase/(decrease) in financial liability and loss/(gain) in Income statement £m £m
10% increase in sales forecasts 535 66
10% decrease in sales forecasts (535) (62)
1% increase in discount rate (233) (38)
1% decrease in discount rate 252 45
10% increase in probability of milestone success 48
10% decrease in probability of milestone success (47)
10 cent appreciation of US Dollar 358 34
10 cent depreciation of US Dollar (304) (5)
10 cent appreciation of Euro 94 17
10 cent depreciation of Euro (79) (8)
An explanation of the accounting for ViiV Healthcare is set out on page 58.209 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
40. Non-controlling interests
The Group has two subgroups that have material non-controlling interests, ViiV Healthcare Limited and its subsidiaries and GSK Consumer
Healthcare Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries. Summarised financial information in respect of the ViiV Healthcare group and GSK
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture is set out below:
ViiV Healthcare
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Turnover 3,527 2,330 1,466
Loss after taxation (1,249) (1,426) (606)
Other comprehensive income 36 7 8
Total comprehensive expense (1,213) (1,419) (598)
2016 2015
£m £m
Non-current assets 3,064 2,466
Current assets 2,357 1,619
Total assets 5,421 4,085
Current liabilities (1,977) (1,218)
Non-current liabilities (7,983) (5,490)
Total liabilities (9,960) (6,708)
Net liabilities (4,539) (2,623)
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,750 1,097 765
Net cash outflow from investing activities (326) (63) (25)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (1,023) (814) (540)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts in the year 401 220 200
The above financial information relates to the ViiV Healthcare group on a stand-alone basis, before the impact of Group-related adjustments,
primarily related to the recognition of preferential dividends. The loss after taxation of £1,249 million (2015 – loss after taxation of £1,426
million; 2014 – loss after taxation of £606 million) is stated after charging preferential dividends payable to GSK, Shionogi and Pfizer and
after a charge of £2,186 million (2015 – £1,874 million; 2014 – £768 million) for remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for
the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years.
The following amounts attributable to the ViiV Healthcare group are included in GSK’s Consolidated statement of comprehensive income,
Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated balance sheet:
2016 2015 2014
£m £m £m
Total comprehensive expense for the year attributable to non-controlling interests (83) (143) (16)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 152 163 120
Non-controlling interests in the Consolidated balance sheet (353) 68210 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
40. Non-controlling interests continued
Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture
2016 2015
£m £m
Turnover 6,530 4,627
Profit/(Loss) after taxation 660 (39)
Other comprehensive income 1,640 72
Total comprehensive income 2,300 33
2016 2015
£m £m
Non-current assets 13,315 11,602
Current assets 3,996 3,810
Total assets 17,311 15,412
Current liabilities (3,060) (2,822)
Non-current liabilities (2,062) (1,849)
Total liabilities (5,122) (4,671)
Net assets 12,189 10,741
2016 2015
£m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,496 277
Net cash outflow from investing activities (537) (691)
Net cash outflow from financing activities (980) (42)
Decrease in cash and bank overdrafts in the year (21) (456)
The above financial information relates to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture on a stand-alone basis since its formation on 2 March 2015,
before the impact of Group-related adjustments but after major restructuring charges.
The following amounts attributable to the Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture are included in GSK’s Consolidated statement of
comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated balance sheet:
2016 2015
£m £m
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 730 14
Non-controlling interests in the Consolidated balance sheet 3,755 3,371211 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
41. Commitments
2016 2015
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 7,199 6,264
Property, plant and equipment 496 502
Investments 166 157
Purchase commitments 52 38
Pensions 874 340
Other commitments 143 191
Interest on loans 9,410 9,282
Finance lease charges 3 7
18,343 16,781
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development or on
meeting specified sales targets, and which represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones, however unlikely, are achieved. The
amounts are not risk-adjusted or discounted. A number of commitments were made in 2016 under licensing and other agreements including
arrangements with Janssen Sciences Ireland UC and Miltenyi Biotec GmbH. These new arrangements were offset by reduced commitments
due on prior year transactions including amendments to the agreement with OncoMed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Five Prime Therapeutics, Inc.
In 2016, GSK reached an agreement with the trustees of the UK pension schemes to make additional contributions to eliminate the pension
deficit identified at the 31 December 2014 actuarial funding valuation. A payment of £123 million is due in 2017 and each subsequent year up
to, and including 2023. The table above includes this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement in the UK of
approximately £130 million.
The Group also has other commitments which principally relate to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed before taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are disclosed below. £186 million (2015 – £314 million) is provided against these
commitments on the Group’s balance sheet.
2016 2015
Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 153 191
Rental payments due between one and two years 129 98
Rental payments due between two and three years 94 76
Rental payments due between three and four years 74 58
Rental payments due between four and five years 66 53
Rental payments due after five years 324 313
Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases 840 789212 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments to finance its operations Market risk
and derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from Interest rate risk management
these operations. These derivatives, principally comprising interest GSK’s objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and
rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts and swaps, are used to balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over
to swap borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for time. The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount
Group purposes and to manage exposure to financial risks from of floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of
changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. operating profit.
GSK does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes
Foreign exchange risk management
and the Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity. All
Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on external trade
transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the
flows are not normally hedged. Foreign currency transaction
risks arising from underlying business activities.
exposures arising on internal trade flows are selectively hedged. The
Capital management Group’s objective is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
GSK’s financial strategy supports the Group’s strategic priorities subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income
and is regularly reviewed by the Board. GSK manages the capital with local currency costs where possible. GSK’s internal trading
structure of the Group through an appropriate mix of debt and equity. transactions are matched centrally and inter-company payment terms
are managed to reduce foreign currency risk. Foreign currency cash
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt of £13.8
flows can be hedged selectively including hedges of the foreign
billion (see Note 31, ‘Net debt’) and shareholders’ equity of £1.1
exchange risk arising from acquisitions and disposals of assets.
billion (see ‘Consolidated statement of changes in equity’ on
Where possible, GSK manages the cash surpluses or borrowing
page 160). Total capital, including that provided by non-controlling
requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using forward
interests, is £18.8 billion.
contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
Our long-term credit rating with Standard and Poor’s is A+ (stable currency.
outlook) and with Moody’s Investor Services (‘Moody’s’) it is A2
In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, the Group
(negative outlook). The Group’s short-term credit ratings are A-1
seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of the principal
and P-1 with Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively.
assets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in US
Liquidity risk management Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Borrowings can be swapped into other
GSK’s policy is to borrow centrally in order to meet anticipated currencies as required.
funding requirements. The strategy is to diversify liquidity sources
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies
using a range of facilities and to maintain broad access to financial
that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated
markets.
as a hedge against the relevant assets. Forward contracts in major
At 31 December 2016, GSK had £4.1 billion of borrowings currencies are also used to reduce exposure to the Group’s
repayable within one year and held £5.0 billion of cash and cash investment in overseas assets (see ‘Net investment hedges’
equivalents and liquid investments of which £3.2 billion was held section of this note for further details).
centrally. GSK has access to short-term finance under a $10 billion
(£8.1 billion) US commercial paper programme; $1.4 billion
(£1.1 billion) was in issue at 31 December 2016 (2015 – no
issuances). GSK also has £1.9 billion five year committed facilities
and $2.5 billion (£2.0 billion) of 364 day committed facilities. The
five-year committed facilities were agreed in September 2015 and
were extended by one year to 2021 in September 2016. The 364 day
committed facilities were agreed in September 2016. These facilities
were undrawn at 31 December 2016. GSK considers this level of
committed facilities to be adequate, given current liquidity
requirements.
GSK has a £15 billion European Medium Term Note programme and
at 31 December 2016, £7.9 billion of notes were in issue under this
programme. The Group also had $11.8 billion (£9.5 billion) of notes
in issue at 31 December 2016 under a US shelf registration. GSK
is currently in the process of renewing its US shelf registration
statement in order to maintain access to the US debt markets.
GSK’s borrowings mature at dates between 2017 and 2045.
The put options owned by minority interest partners in ViiV
Healthcare and the Consumer Healthcare JV business are
exercisable immediately and from 2018, respectively. In reviewing
liquidity requirements GSK considers that sufficient financing options
are available should the put options be exercised.213 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Credit risk At 31 December 2016, £93 million of cash is categorised as held
The Group considers its maximum credit risk at 31 December with unrated or sub-investment grade rated counterparties (lower
2016 to be £11,002 million (31 December 2015 – £11,423 million) then BBB-/Baa3) of which £63 million is cash in transit. The
which is the total of the Group’s financial assets with the exception remaining exposure is concentrated in overseas banks used for local
of ’Other investments’ (comprising equity investments) which bear cash management or investment purposes, including £19 million in
equity risk rather than credit risk. See page 215 for details on the Nigeria held with United Bank for Africa, Zenith Bank and Stanbic
Group’s total financial assets. At 31 December 2016, GSK’s IBTC Bank, £4 million with BTV in Austria, £2 million with
greatest concentration of credit risk was £0.9 billion with Citibank Islandsbanki in Iceland and £1 million with Produbanco in Ecuador.
(A/A1) (2015 – £0.8 billion with Citibank (A/A1)).
Of the £388 million of bank balances and deposits held with BBB/
Treasury-related credit risk Baa rated counterparties, £42 million was held with BBB-/Baa3
GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of GSK’s banking and rated counterparties, including balances or deposits of £12 million
investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from with State Bank of India and £27 million with HDFC Bank in India.
Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s. Usage of these limits is monitored These banks are used for either local cash management or local
daily. investment purposes.
GSK actively manages its exposure to credit risk, reducing surplus
cash balances wherever possible. This is part of GSK’s strategy to
regionalise cash management and to concentrate cash centrally as
much as possible. The table below sets out the credit exposure to
counterparties by rating for liquid investments, cash and cash
equivalents and derivatives. The gross asset position on each
derivative contract is considered for the purpose of this table,
although, under ISDA agreements, the amount at risk is the net
position with each counterparty. Table (e) on page 219 sets out the
Group’s financial assets and liabilities on an offset basis.
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 542 1,560 388 93 2,583
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 2,248 – – – – 2,248
Liquidity funds 66 – – – – 66
Government securities – 85 – 4 – 89
3rd party financial derivatives – 70 86 – – 156
Total 2,314 697 1,646 392 93 5,142
BB+/Ba1
and below
AAA/Aaa AA/Aa A/A BBB/Baa /unrated Total
2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Bank balances and deposits – 1,354 1,979 386 48 3,767
US Treasury and Treasury repo only money market funds 624 – – – – 624
Liquidity funds 1,439 – – – – 1,439
Government securities – 72 – 3 – 75
3rd party financial derivatives – 55 67 3 – 125
Total 2,063 1,481 2,046 392 48 6,030
Credit ratings are assigned by Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s respectively. Where the opinions of the two rating agencies differ, GSK
assigns the lower rating of the two to the counterparty. Where local rating agency or Fitch data is the only source available, the ratings are
converted to global ratings equivalent to those of Standard and Poor’s or Moody’s using published conversion tables.214 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
GSK’s centrally managed cash reserves amounted to £3.2 billion at The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate
31 December 2016, all available within three months. This includes the fair values:
£1.6 billion centrally managed cash held by ViiV Healthcare, a 78.3%
– Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying amount
owned subsidiary. The Group has invested centrally managed liquid
assets in bank deposits, Aaa/AAA rated US Treasury and Treasury – Liquid investments – based on quoted market prices or calculated
repo only money market funds and Aaa/AAA rated liquidity funds. based on observable inputs in the case of marketable securities;
based on principal amounts in the case of non-marketable
Wholesale and retail credit risk securities because of their short repricing periods
Outside the US, no customer accounts for more than 5% of the
– Other investments – equity investments traded in an active market
Group’s trade receivables balance.
determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid
In the US, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group price; other equity investments determined by reference to the
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition current market value of similar instruments or by reference to the
to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets
three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 82% of the
– Short-term loans, overdrafts and commercial paper –
sales of the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses in 2016.
approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity
At 31 December 2016, the Group had trade receivables due from
of these instruments
these three wholesalers totalling £1,323 million (2015 – £990
million). The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in – Long-term loans – based on quoted market prices in the case
respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them of European and US Medium term notes and other fixed rate
encounters financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely borrowings (a level 1 fair value measurement); approximates to the
affect the Group’s financial results. carrying amount in the case of floating rate bank loans and other
loans
The Group’s credit risk monitoring activities relating to these
wholesalers include a review of their quarterly financial information – Contingent consideration for business acquisitions – based on
and Standard & Poor’s credit ratings, development of GSK internal present values of expected future cash flows
risk ratings, and establishment and periodic review of credit limits.
– Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, swaps
However, the Group believes there is no further credit risk provision
and options – based on the present value of contractual cash
required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts
flows or option valuation models using market sourced data
(see Note 24, ‘Trade and other receivables’).
(exchange rates or interest rates) at the balance sheet date
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
– Receivables and payables, including put options – approximates
The table on page 215 presents the carrying amounts and the fair
to the carrying amount
values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 December
2016 and 31 December 2015. – Company-owned life insurance policies – based on cash
surrender value
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a – Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying amount.
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the Fair value of investments in GSK shares
measurement date. At 31 December 2016, the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP)
Trusts held GSK shares with a carrying value of £286 million (2015
– £75 million) and a fair value of £667 million (2015 – £409 million)
based on quoted market price. The shares are held by the ESOP
Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under
employee incentive schemes. In 2016, the carrying value, which is
the lower of cost or expected proceeds, of these shares has been
recognised as a deduction from other reserves. At 31 December
2016, GSK held Treasury shares at a cost of £6,451 million (2015
– £6,917 million) which has been deducted from retained earnings.215 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2016 2015
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
Notes £m £m £m £m
Available-for-sale investments:
Liquid investments (Government bonds) a 89 89 75 75
Other investments a 985 985 1,255 1,255
Loans and receivables:
Cash and cash equivalents e 4,897 4,897 5,830 5,830
Trade and other receivables and certain Other non-current
assets in scope of IAS 39 b 5,499 5,499 5,114 5,114
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39 a, b 361 361 279 279
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a, d, e 23 23 6 6
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a, d, e 133 133 119 119
Total financial assets 11,987 11,987 12,678 12,678
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases:
– bonds in a designated hedging relationship d (3,189) (3,335) (2,740) (2,872)
– other bonds (14,111) (16,996) (13,387) (15,209)
– bank loans and overdrafts e (332) (332) (435) (435)
– commercial paper (1,094) (1,094) – –
Total borrowings excluding obligations under finance leases f (18,726) (21,757) (16,562) (18,516)
Obligations under finance leases (64) (64) (70) (70)
Total borrowings (18,790) (21,821) (16,632) (18,586)
Trade and other payables, Other provisions and certain
Other non-current liabilities in scope of IAS 39 c (18,713) (18,713) (14,748) (14,748)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Contingent consideration liabilities a, c (5,896) (5,896) (3,855) (3,855)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss a, d, e (92) (92) (97) (97)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 a, d, e (102) (102) (56) (56)
Total financial liabilities (43,593) (46,624) (35,388) (37,342)
Net financial assets and financial liabilities (31,606) (34,637) (22,710) (24,664)
The valuation methodology used to measure fair value in the above table is described and categorised on page 214. Trade and other
receivables, Other non-current assets, Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities and Contingent consideration
liabilities are reconciled to the relevant Notes on pages 217 and 218.216 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(a) Financial instruments held at fair value
The following tables categorise the Group’s financial assets and liabilities held at fair value by the valuation methodology applied in
determining their fair value. Where possible, quoted prices in active markets are used (Level 1). Where such prices are not available, the asset
or liability is classified as Level 2, provided all significant inputs to the valuation model used are based on observable market data. If one or
more of the significant inputs to the valuation model is not based on observable market data, the instrument is classified as Level 3. Other
investments classified as Level 3 in the tables below comprise equity investments in unlisted entities with which the Group has entered into
research collaborations and also investments in emerging life science companies.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 84 5 – 89
Other investments 580 – 405 985
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 355 6 361
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 23 – 23
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 133 – 133
664 516 411 1,591
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (5,896) (5,896)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (92) – (92)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (101) (1) (102)
– (193) (5,897) (6,090)
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total
At 31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets at fair value
Available–for–sale financial assets:
Liquid investments 71 4 – 75
Other investments 987 – 268 1,255
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss:
Other non-current assets – 276 3 279
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – 6 – 6
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – 116 3 119
1,058 402 274 1,734
Financial liabilities at fair value
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
Contingent consideration liabilities – – (3,855) (3,855)
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss – (97) – (97)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 – (55) (1) (56)
– (152) (3,856) (4,008)
Movements in the year for financial instruments measured using Level 3 valuation methods are presented below:
2016 2015
£m £m
At 1 January (3,582) (1,504)
Net losses recognised in the income statement (2,283) (1,994)
Net gains recognised in other comprehensive income 29 36
Contingent consideration liabilities for businesses acquired during the year (194) (594)
Payment of contingent consideration liabilities 431 459
Additions 81 77
Disposals (15) (64)
Transfers from Level 3 (11) (7)
Exchange 58 9
At 31 December (5,486) (3,582)217 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The net losses of £2,283 million (2015 – £1,994 million) attributable to Level 3 financial instruments which were recognised in the income
statement were all attributable to financial instruments which were held at the end of the year. These net losses were reported in Other
operating income. £2,162 million (2015 – £1,874 million) arose from remeasurement of the contingent consideration payable for the
acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture and £152 million (2015 – £111 million) arose from remeasurement of the
contingent consideration payable on the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines business. Net gains of £29 million (2015 – £36 million)
attributable to Level 3 equity investments reported in Other comprehensive income as Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments
included net gains of £21 million (2015 – net losses of £8 million) in respect of equity investments held at the end of the year.
Financial liabilities measured using Level 3 valuation methods at 31 December included £5,304 million (2015 – £3,409 million) in respect of
contingent consideration payable for the acquisition in 2012 of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture. This consideration is
expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance of specified products and movements in certain
foreign currencies. They also included £545 million (2015 – £405 million) in respect of contingent consideration for the acquisition of the
Novartis Vaccines business. This consideration is expected to be paid over a number of years and will vary in line with the future performance
of specified products, the achievement of certain milestone targets and movements in certain foreign currencies. Sensitivity analysis on these
balances is provided in Note 39, ‘Contingent consideration liabilities’.
(b) Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other receivables and Other non-current assets which fall within
the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial assets are predominantly non-interest earning. Financial instruments
within the Other non-current assets balance include company-owned life insurance policies. Non-financial instruments include tax
receivables, pension surplus balances and prepayments, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2016 2015
At fair value Non- At fair value Non-
through Loans and Financial financial through Loans and Financial financial
profit or loss receivables instruments instruments Total profit or loss receivables instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables
(Note 24) – 5,135 5,135 891 6,026 – 4,751 4,751 864 5,615
Other non-current assets
(Note 22) 361 364 725 474 1,199 279 363 642 348 990
361 5,499 5,860 1,365 7,225 279 5,114 5,393 1,212 6,605
The following table shows the ageing of such financial assets which are past due and for which no provision for bad or doubtful debts has
been made:
2016 2015
£m £m
Past due by 1–30 days 137 200
Past due by 31–90 days 178 136
Past due by 91–180 days 55 76
Past due by 181–365 days 53 49
Past due by more than 365 days 98 90
521 551218 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(c) Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities and Contingent consideration liabilities in scope of IAS 39
The following table reconciles financial instruments within Trade and other payables, Other provisions, Other non-current liabilities and
Contingent consideration liabilities which fall within the scope of IAS 39 to the relevant balance sheet amounts. The financial liabilities are
predominantly non-interest bearing. Accrued wages and salaries are included within financial liabilities. Non-financial instruments includes
payments on account, tax and social security payables and provisions which do not arise from contractual obligations to deliver cash or
another financial asset, which are outside the scope of IAS 39.
2016 2015
At fair value At fair value
through Other Financial Non-financial through Other Financial Non-financial
profit or loss liabilities instruments instruments Total profit or loss liabilities instruments instruments Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other payables
(Note 27) – (11,041) (11,041) (923) (11,964) – (8,199) (8,199) (686) (8,885)
Other provisions
(Note 29) – (113) (113) (1,387) (1,500) – (159) (159) (1,605) (1,764)
Other non-current liabilities
(Note 30) – (7,559) (7,559) (886) (8,445) – (6,390) (6,390) (717) (7,107)
Contingent consideration
liabilities (Note 39) (5,896) – (5,896) – (5,896) (3,855) – (3,855) – (3,855)
(5,896) (18,713) (24,609) (3,196) (27,805) (3,855) (14,748) (18,603) (3,008) (21,611)
(d) Derivative financial instruments and hedging programmes
The following table sets out the fair values of derivatives held by GSK. All the derivatives have a maturity of less than one year.
2016 2015
Fair value Fair value
Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities
£m £m £m £m
Net investment hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £5,362 million (2015 – £6,192 million)) 18 (92) 3 (97)
Cash flow hedges – Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £170 million (2015 – £69 million)) 5 – 3 –
Derivatives designated as at fair value through profit or loss 23 (92) 6 (97)
Foreign exchange contracts
(principal amount – £14,943 million (2015 – £12,152 million)) 133 (99) 115 (54)
Embedded and other derivatives – (3) 4 (2)
Derivatives classified as held for trading under IAS 39 133 (102) 119 (56)
Total derivative instruments 156 (194) 125 (153)
Foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading under IAS 39
The principal amount on foreign exchange contracts is the absolute total of outstanding positions at the balance sheet date. The Group’s
foreign exchange contracts are for periods of 12 months or less. At 31 December 2016, the Group held outstanding foreign exchange
contracts with a net asset fair value of £34 million (£133 million asset less £99 million liability). At December 2015, the fair value was a
£61 million net asset (£115 million asset less £54 million liability).
The overall decrease in the net asset fair value has been due to the weakening of Sterling against all major currencies in 2016, in particular
impacting the hedging of Euro and US Dollar denominated inter-company loan balances that are not designated as accounting hedges.
Fair value movements are taken to the Income statement in the period to offset the exchange gains and losses on the related inter-company
loan balances.219 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Fair value hedges
At 31 December 2016, the Group had no designated fair value hedges.
Net investment hedges
During the year, certain foreign exchange contracts were designated as net investment hedges in respect of the foreign currency translation
risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its European (Euro) foreign operations as shown in the table above. The hedges
relating to the Japanese (Yen) foreign operations were closed out during the year.
The carrying value of bonds on page 215 includes £3,189 million (2015 – £2,740 million) that are designated as hedging instruments in net
investment hedges.
Cash flow hedges
During 2016, the Group entered into forward foreign exchange contracts which have been designated as cash flow hedges. These are
hedging the foreign exchange exposure arising on Euro and US Dollar denominated coupon payments relating to the Group’s European and
US medium term notes and a number of highly probable forecast transactions denominated in US Dollars.
In addition, the Group carries a balance in reserves that arose from pre-hedging fluctuations in long-term interest rates when pricing bonds
issued in prior years. The balance is reclassified to finance costs over the life of these bonds.
(e) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities
The following tables set out the financial assets and financial liabilities which are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting
arrangements and similar agreements. Amounts which are set off against financial assets and liabilities in the Group’s balance sheet are set
out below. For Trade and other receivables, Trade and other payables, Derivative financial assets and Derivative financial liabilities, amounts
not offset in the balance sheet but which could be offset under certain circumstances are also set out.
Net financial
Gross Gross financial assets/ Related
financial (liabilities)/ (liabilities) amounts not
assets/ assets per balance set off in the
(liabilities) set off sheet balance sheet Net
At 31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables 5,136 (1) 5,135 (29) 5,106
Derivative financial assets 156 – 156 (117) 39
Cash and cash equivalents 4,897 – 4,897
10,189 (1) 10,188
Trade and other payables (11,042) 1 (11,041) 29 (11,012)
Derivative financial liabilities (194) – (194) 117 (77)
Bank loans and overdrafts (332) – (332)
(11,568) 1 (11,567)
Net financial
Gross Gross financial assets/ Related
financial (liabilities)/ (liabilities) amounts not
assets/ assets per balance set off in the
(liabilities) set off sheet balance sheet Net
At 31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m £m
Trade and other receivables 4,757 (6) 4,751 (17) 4,734
Derivative financial assets 125 – 125 (98) 27
Cash and cash equivalents 5,833 (3) 5,830
10,715 (9) 10,706
Trade and other payables (8,205) 6 (8,199) 17 (8,182)
Derivative financial liabilities (153) – (153) 98 (55)
Bank loans and overdrafts (438) 3 (435)
(8,796) 9 (8,787)
The gross financial assets and liabilities set off in the balance sheet primarily relate to cash pooling arrangements with banks. Amounts
which do not meet the criteria for offsetting on the balance sheet but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to
derivative transactions under ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association) agreements where each party has the option to settle
amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.220 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(f) Debt interest rate repricing table
The following table sets out the exposure of the Group to interest rates on debt, including commercial paper. The maturity analysis of fixed rate
debt is stated by contractual maturity and of floating rate debt by interest rate repricing dates. For the purpose of this table, debt is defined as
all classes of borrowings other than obligations under finance leases.
2016 2015
Total
debt Total
£m £m
Floating and fixed rate debt less than one year (4,106) (1,285)
Between one and two years (2,216) (2,276)
Between two and three years (1,277) (1,868)
Between three and four years – (1,096)
Between four and five years – –
Between five and ten years (4,082) (3,464)
Greater than ten years (7,045) (6,573)
Total (18,726) (16,562)
Original issuance profile:
Fixed rate interest (17,342) (16,127)
Floating rate interest (1,381) (434)
Total interest bearing (18,723) (16,561)
Non-interest bearing (3) (1)
(18,726) (16,562)
(g) Sensitivity analysis
Foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the assumption that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to
floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and
on the basis of the hedge designations as at 31 December. Financial instruments affected by market risk include cash and cash equivalents,
borrowings, trade receivables and payables and derivative financial instruments.
The following analyses are intended to illustrate the sensitivity of such financial instruments to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates.
Foreign exchange sensitivity
Foreign currency exposures arise from the translation of financial assets and liabilities which are not in the functional currency of the entity
that holds them (cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and overdrafts, inter-company loans and deposits, other receivables and payables
and trade receivables and payables) and derivative financial instruments hedging legal provisions and activities arising from acquisitions and
disposals of assets.
The Group is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk in relation to Sterling against movements in US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen. Based
on the Group’s net financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December, a weakening of Sterling against these currencies, with all other variables
held constant, is illustrated in the table below. The table excludes financial instruments that expose the Group to foreign exchange risk where
this risk is fully hedged with another financial instrument.
2016 2015
Increase/(decrease) in Increase/(decrease) in
income income
Income statement impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 77 77
10 cent appreciation of the Euro 18 7
10 yen appreciation of the Yen 1 (1)
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following increase/(decrease) in income £(66) million, £(16) million and
£(1) million (2015 – £(67) million, £(6) million and £1 million) for US Dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively.221 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The equity impact, shown below, for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments hedging
the Group’s net investments in its European (Euro) foreign operations and cash flow hedges of its foreign exchange exposure arising on Euro
and US Dollar denominated coupon payments relating to the Group’s European and US medium term notes and a number of highly probable
forecast transactions denominated in US Dollars.
2016 2015
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in equity in equity
Equity impact of non-functional currency foreign exchange exposures £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar 11 –
10 cent appreciation of the Euro (795) (676)
10 yen appreciation of the Yen – (20)
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would cause the following (decrease)/increase in equity: £(10) million, £670 million and
£nil (2015 – £nil, £584 million and £18 million) for US Dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively.
The table below presents the Group’s sensitivity to foreign exchange rates based on the composition of net debt as shown in Note 31
adjusting for the effects of foreign exchange derivatives that are not part of net debt but affect future foreign currency cash flows.
2016 2015
(Increase)/decrease (Increase)/decrease
in net debt in net debt
Impact of foreign exchange movements on net debt £m £m
10 cent appreciation of the US Dollar (746) (471)
10 cent appreciation of the Euro 190 221
10 yen appreciation of the Yen (11) 4
An equivalent depreciation in the above currencies would have the following impact on net debt: £634 million, £(160) million and £10 million
for US Dollar, Euro and Yen exchange rates respectively (2015 – £411 million, £(190) million and £(4) million).
Interest rate sensitivity
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its outstanding borrowings and investments where any changes in interest rates will affect future
cash flows or the fair values of financial instruments.
The majority of debt is issued at fixed interest rates and changes in the floating rates of interest do not significantly affect the Group’s net
interest charge, although the majority of cash and liquid investments earn floating rates of interest.
The table below hypothetically shows the Group’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates in relation to Sterling, US Dollar and Euro variable
rate financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates applicable to floating rate financial assets and liabilities were to have increased by 1%
(100 basis points), and assuming other variables had remained constant, it is estimated that the Group’s finance income for 2016 would have
increased by approximately £3 million (2015 – £37 million increase). A 1% (100 basis points) movement in interest rates is not deemed to
have a material effect on equity.
2016 2015
Increase/(decrease) Increase/(decrease)
in income in income
Income statement impact of interest rate movements £m £m
1% (100 basis points) increase in Sterling interest rates 3 19
1% (100 basis points) increase in US Dollar interest rates (3) 14
1% (100 basis points) increase in Euro interest rates 3 4222 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
42. Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
(h) Contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative instruments
The following tables provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows including interest payable for the Group’s non-derivative
financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis. The Group did not use interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate risk. For the purpose of this
table, debt is defined as all classes of borrowings except for obligations under finance leases. Interest is calculated based on debt held at 31
December without taking account of future issuance. Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing interest rate at the balance sheet
date. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at 31 December. Contractual cash flows in respect of operating lease
vacant space provisions are excluded from the table below as they are included in the Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases
table in Note 41, ‘Commitments’.
Obligations Finance charge on Trade payables and
Interest on under finance obligations under other liabilities not
Debt debt leases finance leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2016 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (4,108) (705) (23) (2) (11,621) (16,459)
Between one and two years (2,218) (566) (22) (1) (8,784) (11,591)
Between two and three years (1,282) (503) (12) – (961) (2,758)
Between three and four years – (496) (7) – (786) (1,289)
Between four and five years – (496) – – (705) (1,201)
Between five and ten years (4,117) (2,122) – – (3,474) (9,713)
Greater than ten years (7,124) (4,522) – – (3,135) (14,781)
Gross contractual cash flows (18,849) (9,410) (64) (3) (29,466) (57,792)
Finance charge on Trade payables
Obligations obligations and other
Interest on under finance under finance liabilities not
Debt debt leases leases in net debt Total
At 31 December 2015 £m £m £m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year (1,285) (638) (23) (2) (8,505) (10,453)
Between one and two years (2,280) (625) (20) (1) (479) (3,405)
Between two and three years (1,871) (510) (14) (1) (7,688) (10,084)
Between three and four years (1,103) (457) (6) – (452) (2,018)
Between four and five years – (451) (6) – (655) (1,112)
Between five and ten years (3,498) (2,047) (1) – (2,452) (7,998)
Greater than ten years (6,651) (4,554) – (3) (2,635) (13,843)
Gross contractual cash flows (16,688) (9,282) (70) (7) (22,866) (48,913)
The increase in contractual cash flows for non-derivative financial liabilities of £8.8 billion over the year resulted partially from the initial
recognition of the ViiV Healthcare put option liability of £1.3 billion. In addition, there was an increase of £2.9 billion in forecast future cash
flows in respect of contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of the former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture in 2012 and for
the acquisition of the Novartis Vaccines business in 2015.
Anticipated contractual cash flows for the repayment of debt and debt interest have increased by £2.3 billion over the year, principally due to
the retranslation of US Dollar denominated debt which has been adversely impacted by the weakening of Sterling due to volatility in the
markets compounded by political and economic events throughout 2016.
The table below provides an analysis of the anticipated contractual cash flows for the Group’s derivative instruments, excluding embedded
derivatives and equity options which are not material, using undiscounted cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using
spot rates at 31 December. The gross cash flows of foreign exchange contracts are presented for the purpose of this table although, in
practice, the Group uses standard settlement arrangements to reduce its liquidity requirements on these instruments.
The amounts receivable and payable in less than one year have increased compared with 31 December 2015 as a result of hedging of the
US commercial paper programme and increased hedging of Euro receivables.
2016 2015
Receivables Payables Receivables Payables
£m £m £m £m
Due in less than one year 21,266 (21,303) 18,283 (18,318)
Between one and two years 20 (20) 20 (20)
Gross contractual cash flows 21,286 (21,323) 18,303 (18,338)223 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
43. Employee share schemes
GSK operates several employee share schemes, including the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares
or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period and the Performance Share Plan, whereby awards are granted to
employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject to the achievement by the Group of specified performance
targets. The granting of these restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options to employees as the cost of the schemes more
readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee. The Group also operates savings related share option schemes, whereby
options are granted to employees to acquire shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc at a discounted price.
Grants of restricted share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three year vesting or performance period. Awards are normally
granted to employees to acquire shares or ADS in GlaxoSmithKline plc but in some circumstances may be settled in cash. Grants under
savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. In accordance with UK practice, the majority of
options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20% below the market price ruling at the date of grant.
Options under historical share option schemes were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant.
The total charge for share-based incentive plans in 2016 was £338 million (2015 – £349 million; 2014 – £346 million). Of this amount,
£271 million (2015 – £307 million; 2014 – £302 million) arose from the Share Value Plan. See Note 9, ‘Employee Costs’ for further details.
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Share Value Plan
Under the Share Value Plan, share awards are granted to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest after two and a half to three years
and there are no performance criteria attached. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of
grant, after deducting the expected future dividend yield of 4.5% (2015 – 5.7%; 2014 – 5.2%) over the duration of the award.
Shares Weighted ADS Weighted
Number of shares and ADS issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1 January 2014 31,067 20,838
Awards granted 12,410 £12.65 7,842 $41.56
Awards exercised (9,642) (6,787)
Awards cancelled (923) (666)
At 31 December 2014 32,912 21,227
Awards granted 13,019 £11.57 7,198 $35.66
Awards exercised (11,476) (8,878)
Awards cancelled (1,878) (2,027)
At 31 December 2015 32,577 17,520
Awards granted 12,983 £14.97 6,589 $39.18
Awards exercised (11,198) (6,214)
Awards cancelled (1,507) (812)
At 31 December 2016 32,855 17,083
Performance Share Plan
Under the Performance Share Plan, share awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of each award
that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a defined measurement period with dividends reinvested during the same period.
For awards granted from 2014 to Directors and members of the CET, the performance conditions are based on three equally weighted
measures over a three year performance period. These are adjusted free cash flow, TSR and R&D new product performance.
For those awards made to all other eligible employees the performance conditions are based on both GSK’s EPS growth compared with the
increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over the three year measurement period and adjusted free cash flow. In addition, some businesses have
an element of their award based on a strategic or operational business measure, over a three year measurement period, specific to the
employee’s business area.
The fair value of the awards is determined based on the closing share price on the day of grant. For TSR performance elements, this is
adjusted by the likelihood of that condition being met, as assessed at the time of grant.
During 2016, awards were made of 4.6 million shares at a weighted fair value of £11.01 and 1.2 million ADS at a weighted fair value of $31.78.
At 31 December 2016, there were outstanding awards over 13.2 million shares and 3.3 million ADS.
Share options and savings-related options
For the purposes of valuing savings-related options to arrive at the share based payment charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing model has
been used. The assumptions used in the model are as follows:
2016 Grant 2015 Grant 2014 Grant
Risk-free interest rate 0.32% 0.88% 0.7%
Dividend yield 4.9% 6.5% 5.8%
Volatility 23% 21% 19%
Expected life 3 years 3 years 3 years
Savings-related options grant price (including 20% discount) £12.95 £10.14 £11.31224 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
43. Employee share schemes continued
Share option Share option Savings-related
Options outstanding
schemes – shares schemes – ADS share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31 December 2016 6,133 £12.37 7,547 $47.06 6,267 £10.89
Range of exercise prices on options outstanding
at year end £11.47 – £14.88 $33.42 – $58.00 £10.13 – £12.95
Weighted average market price on exercise
during year £15.85 $42.08 £14.93
Weighted average remaining contractual life 1.8 years 1.1 years 2.5 years
Options over 1.3 million shares were granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme at a weighted average fair value
of £2.69. At 31 December 2016, 6.1 million of the savings-related share options were not exercisable. All of the other share options and ADS
options are currently exercisable and all will expire if not exercised on or before 22 July 2020.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards
made under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts purchase
shares with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions. In 2016, Treasury shares with a carrying value of £466 million
were purchased by the UK ESOP Trust to satisfy future awards. The costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and amortised down to the value of proceeds, if any, receivable from
employees on exercise by a transfer to retained earnings. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the
ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2016 2015
Number of shares (000) 42,571 29,662
£m £m
Nominal value 11 7
Carrying value 285 74
Market value 665 407
Shares held for share option schemes 2016 2015
Number of shares (000) 139 139
£m £m
Nominal value – –
Carrying value 1 1
Market value 2 2
44. Post balance sheet events
On 28 February 2017, GSK completed the sale of its anaesthesia portfolio to Aspen, excluding the US and Canada markets, for £180 million
together with milestones of up to £100 million.225 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
45. Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiaries and their countries of incorporation of the Group at 31 December 2016. The equity share
capital of these entities is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are
incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
England US
Glaxo Group Limited Block Drug Company, Inc. (63.5%)
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Corixa Corporation
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. (55.9%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited GlaxoSmithKline LLC
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Human Genome Sciences, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited * Novartis Consumer Health, Inc. (63.5%)
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Stiefel Laboratories, Inc.
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited * ViiV Healthcare Company (78.3%)
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited
Setfirst Limited
SmithKline Beecham Limited
ViiV Healthcare Limited (78.3%)
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited (78.3%)
Europe Others
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. (Argentina)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA (Belgium) GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd (Australia)
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. (France) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty Ltd (Australia) (63.5%)
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS (France) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada (Brazil)
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline (France) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. (Canada) (63.5%)
ViiV Healthcare SAS (France) (78.3%) GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (Canada)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec (Canada)
(Germany) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Limited (China (Hong Kong))
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG (Germany) Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd (China) (34.9%)
GSK Vaccines GmbH (Germany) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited (India) (72.5%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. (Italy) (63.5%) GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited (India) (75%)
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. (Italy) GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. (Japan) (63.5%)
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. (Italy) GlaxoSmithKline K.K. (Japan)
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. (Netherlands) ViiV Healthcare Kabushiki Kaisha (Japan) (78.3%)
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. (Poland) GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited (Pakistan) (82.6%)
GSK Services Sp z o.o. (Poland) Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd. (Singapore)
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (Republic of Ireland) (i) GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited (Republic of Korea)
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. (Spain) GlaxoSmithKline llaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. (Turkey)
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. (Spain) (78.3%)
Novartis Consumer Health S.A. (Switzerland) (63.5%)
(i) E xempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions noted
in Section 357 of that Act. Further subsidiaries, as disclosed on pages 272 to 282, are exempt from these provisions as they are also
consolidated in the group financial statements.
* Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
The subsidiaries and associates listed above principally affect the figures in the Group’s financial statements. Each of GlaxoSmithKline
Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the company, and the company has fully and
unconditionally guaranteed the securities issued by each of GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. and GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc.
See pages 272 to 282 for a complete list of subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures, which form part of these financial
statements.226 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative Advair HFA, Flovent HFA, Ventolin HFA
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, On 29 September 2015, Mylan Pharmaceuticals (Mylan) filed a
anti-trust and governmental investigations, as well as related private petition for an Inter Partes Review (IPR) with the United States Patent
litigation. The most significant of these matters, other than tax and Trademark Office (USPTO) seeking to invalidate a patent, U.S.
matters, are described below. The Group makes provision for these Patent No. 6,743, 413 (‘413 patent’). The ‘413 patent claims a method
proceedings on a regular basis as summarised in Note 2, of treatment with a formulation containing an active medication and a
‘Accounting principles and policies’ and Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. propellant known as 134a, substantially free of surfactant, and its use
The Group may become involved in significant legal proceedings in in the hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) metered dose inhalers for Advair,
respect of which it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the Flovent and Ventolin. The Group exclusively licenses the patent from
expected financial effect, if any, that could result from ultimate 3M and has the first right to enforce and defend it. The patent, which
resolution of the proceedings. In these cases, appropriate expires on 1 December 2021, is listed in the Orange Book. On 14
disclosures about such cases would be included in this note, but November 2016, the Group entered into a settlement agreement
no provision would be made for the cases. with Mylan resolving the IPR. The terms of the settlement agreement
are confidential. The patent that was the subject of the IPR and
With respect to each of the legal proceedings described below,
settlement is one of a number of patents covering Advair, Flovent
other than those for which a provision has been made, the Group is
and Ventolin and their use in HFA metered dose inhalers.
unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect at
this stage. The Group does not believe that information about the On 15 February 2017, the Group received a Paragraph IV
amount sought by the plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful certification from Teva for Flovent HFA. This is the first Paragraph IV
with respect to those legal proceedings. This is due to a number of certification the Group has received from a generic pharmaceutical
factors, including, but not limited to, the stage of proceedings, the company seeking to make an AB rated version of Flovent HFA. Three
entitlement of parties to appeal a decision and clarity as to theories patents are at issue. Teva alleges that their generic version of Flovent
of liability, damages and governing law. will not infringe two patents directed to actuation indicators listed in
the Orange Book. Teva also alleges that the ‘413 patent, which was
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are
the subject of the Mylan IPR proceeding that was settled in
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions are
November 2016, is not valid. The Group is evaluating Teva’s
made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice,
Paragraph IV certification. The deadline for filing a patent
where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
infringement suit that would trigger a ‘30-month stay’ (a statutory
estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute. For certain
preclusion of ANDA approval for the generic product for 30 months
product liability claims, the Group will make a provision where there
from the date of the Group’s receipt of notice of the Paragraph IV
is sufficient history of claims made and settlements to enable
certification) under the Hatch-Waxman Act is 2 April 2017.
management to make a reliable estimate of the provision required
to cover unasserted claims. At 31 December 2016, the Group’s Bexsero/Men B vaccines
aggregate provision for legal and other disputes (not including tax Following its acquisition of the Novartis Vaccine business, the
matters described in Note 14, ‘Taxation’) was £344 million. The Group has taken over litigation originally filed by Novartis against
ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts provided Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) in the UK, Italy and the United States related to
and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, meningococcal B (Men B) vaccines. On 18 February 2015, Novartis
investigations and possible settlement negotiations. filed suit against Pfizer in the UK High Court (Patents Court) for a
The Group’s position could change over time, and, therefore, there declaration that a European patent owned by Pfizer was not infringed
can be no assurance that any losses that result from the outcome by Bexsero and was invalid. Pfizer filed a Statement of Defence on
of any legal proceedings will not exceed by a material amount the 27 May 2015 and counterclaimed for infringement. Trial was held on
amount of the provisions reported in the Group’s financial 8-18 March 2016, and on 5 May 2016, the judge ruled that Pfizer’s
statements. If this were to happen, it could have a material adverse patent was valid and infringed by the Bexsero product. The Group
impact on the results of operations of the Group in the reporting has appealed the decision, and the appeal hearing is expected to be
period in which the judgements are incurred or the settlements heard in the week of 12 December 2017.
entered into. On 18 February 2015, Novartis filed suit against Pfizer in the Court of
Intellectual property Rome for a declaration that a European patent owned by Pfizer was
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity and not infringed by Bexsero and was invalid. The Group has assumed
enforceability of the Group’s patents on various products or responsibility for this matter. The Group is also prosecuting a lawsuit
processes as well as assertions of non-infringement of those against Pfizer, originally filed by Novartis, for a declaration that a
patents. A loss in any of these cases could result in loss of patent European patent issued to Pfizer related to meningitis B vaccines is
protection for the product at issue. The consequences of any such not infringed by Bexsero. Pfizer has counterclaimed seeking a
loss could be a significant decrease in sales of that product and declaration that Bexsero infringes their patents and an order for
could materially affect future results of operations for the Group. damages. The Group is actively pursuing these actions.227 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
46. Legal proceedings continued
On 18 February 2015, Novartis filed suit against Pfizer in the US Coreg CR
District Court for the District of New Jersey for patent infringement. Mylan sent a Paragraph IV certification, dated 26 August 2015, to the
The complaint asserts six patents against Pfizer, alleging that Pfizer’s Group and Flamel Ireland Ltd. (Flamel) stating that it had submitted
sale of Trumenba infringes those patents. On 27 April 2015, the an Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) to the US Food and
Group filed a First Amended Complaint against Pfizer reasserting Drug Administration (FDA) seeking approval of a generic version of
the six patents originally asserted by Novartis, but also asserting Coreg CR. The notice asserted that the patents listed in the Orange
one additional recently-granted patent. The Group filed a Second Book for Coreg CR were either invalid or not infringed by Mylan’s
Amended Complaint on 15 March 2016 asserting an additional five product. On 9 October 2015, Flamel filed a civil complaint in the US
patents covering Trumenba against Pfizer. No dates have been set District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia alleging that
for summary judgement motions or trial. Mylan’s product infringes Flamel’s Orange Book-listed extended
release formulation patent which expires on 11 March 2026. The
On 25 July 2016, Pfizer filed a suit with the UK High Court against
Group is the exclusive licensee of this patent for Coreg CR. Mylan
the Group, Novartis, and the Craig Venter Institute, seeking to
answered on 18 December 2015, asserting that Flamel’s patent was
invalidate six UK patents owned by the Group that have relevance to
invalid or not infringed. Mylan also filed a third party complaint against
Pfizer’s Trumenba. These six patents, formerly owned by Novartis,
the Group requesting a declaration that the Group’s patent on
have also been opposed in the European Patent Office (EPO) by
carvedilol phosphate hemihydrate was invalid or not infringed. On
Pfizer. Two of the six patents were revoked by the EPO Opposition
2 December 2016, the parties settled the matter on terms that are
Division. However, in September 2016, one of the patents was
confidential.
upheld by the EPO Board of Appeal and another one was upheld by
the EPO Opposition Division. The Group believes that Trumenba Kivexa
infringes both of these patents. Two trials have been set to cover the The patent covering the combination of lamivudine and abacavir for
patents in issue. The first trial date is January 2018 and the second Kivexa and the corresponding Supplementary Protection Certificates
trial date is February 2018. (SPCs) were challenged independently by Teva and Mylan in several
On 12 October 2016, the Group filed suit seeking injunctive relief major European markets. These challenges have been withdrawn
against Pfizer in Ireland claiming infringement of four Group patents pursuant to a confidential settlement agreement with Teva dated
(including the Group patent upheld by the EPO Board of Appeals 18 May 2015 and a confidential settlement agreement with Mylan
in September, 2016 and the other patent maintained in the first dated 10 May 2016.
instance) by virtue of its manufacture of Trumenba and its proposed In Q3 2016, challenges to the validity of the SPC for the combination
commercialisation in Ireland. The Group’s application to enter the patent for Kivexa were brought in Germany by Betapharm (Dr.
Commercial Division of the Irish High Court in order to expedite Reddy’s), Hexal (Sandoz) and Hormosan (Lupin). ViiV Healthcare
the case was successful. The hearing is likely to be scheduled for commenced proceedings for injunctive relief against all three
Q3 2017. companies. ViiV Healthcare’s application for injunctive relief against
On 12 October 2016, the same day that the Group filed suit against Hexal was denied. On 10 October 2016, a confidential settlement
Pfizer in the UK and Ireland, the Group filed suit in Austria seeking agreement was reached with Dr. Reddy’s covering a number of
injunctive relief against Boehringer Ingelheim (BI), Pfizer’s contract European markets. Pursuant to this agreement, the German actions
manufacturer of the antigens for Trumenba, claiming infringement of involving Betapharm have been withdrawn. No trial dates have been
a Group patent upheld by the EPO Board of Appeal in September set for the Hexal or Hormosan actions.
2016. BI has filed a response to the complaint. The trial is likely to Sandoz also has filed nullity actions in Austria, Germany, Spain
be scheduled for some time in 2017. and Sweden in September and October 2016 alleging that the
On 25 November 2016, Pfizer filed suit in the Canadian Federal Kivexa SPC was invalid because the underlying patent covering
Court against the Group for infringement of a Pfizer Canadian patent the combination of lamivudine and abacavir was invalid. Sandoz
covering Trumenba. Pfizer seeks damages but is not seeking an launched an abacavir/lamivudine product in Austria, Spain and
injunction. The trial is not likely to occur before 2019. Sweden. ViiV Healthcare has commenced proceedings for injunctive
relief in Austria and Sweden, with decisions on injunctive relief
expected in the first half of 2017. ViiV Healthcare also has
counterclaimed for infringement within the nullity action in Spain.
No trial dates have been set in these jurisdictions.228 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
DOC Generici filed an action in September 2016 in the Court of Avandia
Rome seeking a declaration that the Italian SPC covering Kivexa The Group has been named in product liability lawsuits on behalf of
was invalid because it is based upon the invalid combination patent. individuals asserting personal injury claims arising out of the use of
Company Eurogenerics has joined the action. No trial date has Avandia. Economic loss actions have also been filed, seeking
been set. restitution and penalties under consumer protection and other laws.
The federal cases filed against the Group are part of a multi-district
In Portugal, ViiV Healthcare initiated arbitration proceedings against
litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern
Lupin, Vale Pharmaceuticals and Zentiva under the patent covering
District of Pennsylvania (the ‘MDL Court’). Cases have also been
the combination of lamivudine and abacavir. All three companies had
filed in a number of state courts. In addition, the County of Santa
filed for marketing approval for a generic version of Kivexa. Sandoz
Clara, California, has brought an action on behalf of California
joined the proceedings as the future holder of the Lupin marketing
residents which is pending in the MDL Court, alleging violations of
approval. No arbitration date has yet been scheduled in any of these
California’s False Advertising Act and seeking restitution, damages,
actions.
and civil penalties.
In December 2016, Accord Healthcare Ltd. (Accord) filed a
As of February 2017, the Group has reached agreements to settle
revocation action against the SPC in the UK. The action has been
the substantial majority of federal and state cases pending in the US.
resolved in a confidential settlement between Accord and the Group.
In February 2017, Kyowa Pharmaceuticals filed a nullity action There are four purported class actions in the US seeking economic
relating to Kivexa in Japan. ViiV Healthcare is evaluating its options damages on behalf of third party payers (TPPs) asserting claims
with regard to this action. arising under various state and federal laws, including the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), state unfair trade
Lexiva practices and/or consumer protection laws. The MDL Court has
On 4 February 2016, Lupin filed a petition in the US Patent and consolidated these four actions for pre-trial proceedings, and has
Trademark Office (USPTO) seeking to challenge the validity of the appointed a Plaintiffs Steering Committee. The Group was
patent claims covering Lexiva in an Inter Partes Review (IPR). This is successful in obtaining an initial case management order that
the second petition for IPR that Lupin has filed against this patent. In requires the four named plaintiffs to produce documentation relating
the earlier petition, the USPTO instituted an IPR on broad claims in to the merits of their claims. Two of the four named plaintiffs have
the patent, but denied instituting a challenge to the specific claims to filed motions to dismiss voluntarily their claims, which the Group has
Lexiva, which are now being challenged. The patent expires on 24 opposed in order to require these plaintiffs to comply with their
June 2018. On 2 August 2016, the USPTO granted the petition and discovery obligations. The Group has filed a motion for summary
instituted a trial on the remaining claims in the Lexiva patent. An oral judgement on the basis of pre-emption in the TPP actions. Oral
hearing is scheduled for 5 April 2017. Under the relevant rules, the argument on the motions was heard on 13 February 2017, and the
USPTO must issue a decision on the IPR by 2 August 2017. Court has taken the matter under advisement.
Additionally, on 9 February 2017, Lupin sent ViiV Healthcare a In the Santa Clara County action, the Group has pending a motion
Paragraph IV certification under the Hatch-Waxman Act alleging that for summary judgement on the basis of pre-emption and also is
the patent covering Lexiva is not valid. The patent expires on 24 seeking partial summary judgement on the County’s restitution claim.
December 2017 and has pediatric exclusivity extending to 24 June However, no decision is expected until the MDL Court first disposes
2018. ViiV Healthcare is evaluating the certification. of Santa Clara’s motion to dismiss based on lack of federal
Product liability jurisdiction. Oral argument was heard on 12 November 2015 on
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development Santa Clara’s motion to dismiss for lack of jurisdiction. The Court
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of products has not yet issued its decision.
for use by humans following approval by regulatory bodies. There are fifteen class actions in Canada, two of which are active.
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines are In the two active cases, class certification hearings were held. On 7
introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated safety issues may December 2016, the court issued a decision certifying a nationwide
become, or be claimed by some to be, evident. The Group is class of all users of Avandia. The Group has filed a notice of intent to
currently a defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits related appeal.
to the Group’s Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
products. The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the
expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this category
and has included a provision, as appropriate, for the matters below
in the provision for legal and other disputes. Matters for which the
Group has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other
provisions’.229 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
46. Legal proceedings continued
Seroxat/Paxil and Paxil CR In Canada, the Bartram action, which was certified as a national
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging that class action in British Columbia, was settled in December 2016,
use of Paxil (paroxetine) has caused a variety of injuries. Most of eliminating the need for a trial. The Singh action in Alberta, also a
these lawsuits contain one or more of the following allegations: (i) proposed national class action, seeks to certify a class relating to
that use of Paxil during pregnancy caused congenital malformations birth defects generally. A hearing on the motion to certify this class,
or persistent pulmonary hypertension; (ii) that Paxil treatment caused previously scheduled for early 2015, was adjourned at plaintiffs’
patients to commit suicidal or violent acts; and (iii) that the Group request so that additional evidence could be filed. A revised hearing
failed to warn that patients could experience certain symptoms on date has not been set, but is likely to be in mid-2017. There is also
discontinuing Paxil treatment. one inactive proposed national class action in British Columbia
(Wakeman). A new class action, Jensen, alleging Paxil (and other
– Pregnancy
SSRI) use and autism was filed in Saskatchewan in January 2017.
The Group has reached agreements to settle the majority of the US
claims relating to the use of Paxil during pregnancy as of February – Acts of violence
2017, but a number of claims related to use during pregnancy are still As of February 2017, there were six pending claims or cases
pending in various courts in the US. Other matters have been concerning allegations that patients who took paroxetine or Paxil
dismissed without payment. committed or attempted to commit suicide or acts of violence: five
claims or cases are in the US and one case is in Canada. Trial on one
There are nine cases pending in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Mass
of the US cases, Dolin, begins on 14 March 2017 in federal court in
Tort Program (MTP). Rader v. GSK went to trial on 17 March 2016.
Chicago, Illinois.
On 4 April 2016, the judge presiding over the trial granted the
Group’s motion for non-suit, ending the trial in the Group’s favour – Discontinuation
when he ruled that the plaintiff failed to introduce the necessary In the UK, one hundred and three cases remain. These were the
evidence to proceed. On 17 June 2016, the court denied plaintiff’s subject of a hearing held on 14 December 2015. The judgement from
motion for post-trial relief, which sought a new trial. Plaintiff’s appeal the hearing was published on 4 February 2016 and allowed the
was docketed on 19 July 2016 and is proceeding. remaining claims to continue under court management. Further case
management conferences were held on 29 July 2016 and 23
Following their loss in Rader, plaintiffs’ counsel asked the MTP
February 2017 and a new timetable ordered for the proceedings.
Court to stay the remaining eight cases until an issue in Rader
was addressed by the Pennsylvania appellate courts. The Group Zofran
opposed that request. On 19 April 2016, the MTP Court granted Plaintiffs allege that their children suffered birth defects as a result
plaintiffs’ counsel’s request and entered an Order staying all the of the mothers’ ingestion of Zofran and/or generic ondansetron for
cases until the resolution of the Rader appeal. The Group then pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting. Plaintiffs assert that the
moved to lift the Order granting the stay, arguing that a host of Group sold Zofran knowing it was unsafe for pregnant women, failed
dispositive issues in these cases did not depend on the outcome to warn of the risks, and illegally marketed Zofran “off-label” for use
of the Rader appeal. The Court denied the Group’s motions on by pregnant women. As of February 2017, the Group is a defendant
13 July 2016. in 312 personal injury lawsuits in the US. Three hundred and two of
There are eight cases pending in a single California state court the cases are part of a multi-district litigation proceeding (MDL) in
pursuant to a coordination order. Motions to quash for personal the District of Massachusetts. The MDL cases are in discovery.
jurisdiction and forum non conveniens were denied. On 6 December On 27 January 2016, the MDL court issued an order denying the
2016, the Group filed writs seeking review by the California Court Group’s motion to dismiss all claims of the grounds that they are
of Appeals. The court has not yet issued a ruling. pre-empted under federal law. The Group may renew the motion at
a later date. The MDL continues with monthly status conferences
Fourteen cases were filed in state court in St. Louis, Missouri.
where issues such as the sufficiency of the pleadings and the scope
The Group removed each of the cases to the Federal Court for
of discovery will be addressed. The Group continues to seek the
the Eastern District of Missouri and, concurrently, filed motions to
dismissal of individual cases as appropriate.
dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction, or in the alternative, to
transfer to the federal court in the plaintiffs’ respective home states. There has been no significant activity in 2016 in the ten state court
As of 15 February 2017, all fourteen cases have been dismissed. cases in the US, eight of which are located in California. The Group
is also a defendant in four proposed class actions in Canada. There
On 10 October 2016, the parties agreed to a settlement of the
has been no significant activity in 2016 in the Canadian class
65-plaintiff case in state court in St. Louis, Missouri. In Meyers, the
actions.
denial of the Group’s motion to dismiss on personal jurisdiction
grounds was affirmed by the Illinois appellate court. In El-Massri,
the Connecticut federal court granted the Group’s motion for
summary judgement on 1 February 2017. The Kiker case that had
been set for trial on 21 January 2017 was settled.230 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the financial statements continued
46. Legal proceedings continued
Sales and marketing and regulation Average wholesale price
The Group’s marketing and promotion of its Pharmaceutical and The Attorney General in Illinois filed suit against the Group and a
Vaccine products are the subject of certain governmental number of other pharmaceutical companies claiming damages and
investigations and private lawsuits brought by litigants under various restitution due to average wholesale price (AWP) and/or wholesale
theories of law. The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate acquisition cost (WAC) price reporting for pharmaceutical products
of the expected financial effect of the matters discussed in this covered by the state’s Medicaid programmes. The case alleges that
category, and has included a provision for such matters in the the Group reported or caused to be reported false AWP and WAC
provision for legal and other disputes, except as noted below. prices, which, in turn, allegedly caused the state Medicaid agency to
Matters for which the Group has made a provision are also noted reimburse providers more money for covered medicines than the
in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. agency intended. The state has sought recovery on behalf of itself as
payer and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers. The case is
SEC/DOJ and SFO Anti-corruption enquiries ongoing, and no trial date has yet been set.
On 30 September 2016, the Group reached a global resolution with
the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regarding the Cidra third-party payer litigation
SEC’s investigation under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act On 25 July 2013, a number of major US healthcare insurers filed suit
(FCPA) into the Group’s commercial practices in countries outside against the Group in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania County Court of
of the US. As part of the resolution, the Group agreed to pay a civil Common Pleas seeking compensation for reimbursements they
penalty of $20 million to the US Government. The US Department of made for medicines manufactured at the Group’s former Cidra plant
Justice (DOJ) also confirmed that it had concluded its investigation in Puerto Rico. These insurers claim that the Group knowingly and
into the Group’s commercial practices and would take no action illegally marketed and sold adulterated drugs manufactured under
against the Group. The SEC and DOJ investigations were initiated as conditions non-compliant with cGMP (current good manufacturing
part of an industry-wide inquiry in 2010 into whether pharmaceutical practices) and that they, as third-party insurers, were unlawfully
companies had violated the US FCPA. The Group agreed to the induced to pay for them. The suit alleges both US federal and various
resolution without admitting or denying the SEC’s allegations. state law causes of action. The Court denied the Group’s motion to
dismiss, and discovery is scheduled to be completed in 2017, with
On 27 May 2014, the UK Serious Fraud Office (SFO) began a formal
trial expected to be scheduled sometime in 2018.
criminal investigation into the Group’s commercial operations in a
number of countries, including China. The SFO has requested Anti-trust/competition
information from the Group on its commercial operations in these Certain governmental actions and private lawsuits have been brought
countries. The Group is responding to the SFO’s requests. The against the Group alleging violation of competition or anti-trust laws.
Group is unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial The Group has been able to make a reliable estimate of the expected
effect of these investigations, and no provision has been made for financial effect of the matters discussed in this category and has
them. included a provision for such matters in the provision for legal and
other disputes, except as noted below. Matters for which the Group
US Vaccines subpoena has made a provision are also noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’.
On 25 February 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting UK Competition and Markets Authority investigation
documents relating to the Group’s Vaccines business. The Group is On 12 February 2016, the UK Competition and Markets Authority
responding to the subpoena. The Group is unable to make a reliable (CMA) issued a decision fining the Group and two other
estimate of the expected financial effect of this matter, and no pharmaceutical companies for infringement of the Competition Act.
provision has been made for it. The CMA imposed a fine of £37.6 million on the Group, as well as
fines totalling £7.4 million against the other companies. This relates
US subpoena relating to Imitrex and Amerge to agreements to settle patent disputes between the Group and
On 7 March 2016, the Group received a subpoena from the US potential suppliers of generic paroxetine formulations, entered
Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York requesting between 2001 and 2003. The Group terminated the agreements at
documents relating to the Group’s US contracts for Imitrex and issue in 2004. The Group believes it has strong grounds to appeal
Amerge. The Group is responding to the subpoena. The Group is the CMA’s finding to the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT) such
unable to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect that the fine is overturned or substantially reduced. The appeal to the
of this matter, and no provision has been made for it. CAT is due to commence on 28 March 2017. No provision has been
made for this matter.
Avandia
The Group is defending an action by the County of Santa Clara,
California, which was brought under California’s consumer protection
laws seeking civil penalties and restitution as a result of the Group’s
marketing of Avandia. The Group has filed a number of dispositive
motions which are pending before the MDL Court. The County of
Santa Clara recently has filed a motion to dismiss the action from
federal court for lack of federal jurisdiction. This motion has been
briefed and argued by the parties.231 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
46. Legal proceedings continued
Lamictal Securities/ERISA class actions – Stiefel
Purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers filed suit in the There are currently three outstanding private lawsuits brought by
US District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that the former Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. (Stiefel) employees alleging that
Group and Teva Pharmaceuticals unlawfully conspired to delay Stiefel and its officers and directors violated the US Employee
generic competition for Lamictal, resulting in overcharges to the Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and federal and state
purchasers, by entering into an allegedly anti-competitive reverse securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their shares in
payment settlement to resolve patent infringement litigation. A the employee stock plan back to Stiefel at a greatly undervalued price
separate count accuses the Group of monopolising the market. and without disclosing to employees that Stiefel was about to be sold
On 26 June 2015, the Court of Appeals reversed the trial court’s to the Group.
decision to dismiss the case and remanded the action back to the
The Fried case is currently on appeal to the US Court of Appeals for
trial court. On 26 October 2015, the trial court denied the Group’s
the Eleventh Circuit, with oral argument having taken place in
motion for a stay and set a schedule for early dispositive motions
February 2016. Stiefel won a complete defence verdict in this matter
and discovery. The Group filed a petition for certiorari with the US
at a jury trial in federal court in Florida in October 2013 and the
Supreme Court on 19 February 2016. On 7 November 2016, the
plaintiff appealed. Trial of a second Florida case has been stayed
US Supreme Court denied the Group’s petition for certiorari. In the
pending resolution of the Fried matter. Discovery also continues in a
trial court, on 22 March 2016, the Group’s motion for judgement on
case pending in New York federal court.
the pleadings was granted in large part, dismissing, on statute of
limitations grounds, most of the claims alleged by the purported In addition to the private litigant suits, on 12 December 2011, the US
indirect purchaser class. On 18 May 2016, the trial court denied the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed a formal complaint
indirect purchaser class plaintiffs’ motion for reconsideration. As a against Stiefel and Charles Stiefel in the US District Court for the
result, the indirect purchaser class representatives have agreed to a District of Florida alleging that Stiefel and its principals violated
settlement to exit the case and resolve their remaining claims. Terms federal securities laws by inducing Stiefel employees to sell their
of the settlement are confidential. The case will continue to move shares in the employee stock plan back to the company at a greatly
forward with document production and witness depositions with undervalued price and without disclosing to employees that the
regard to the claims of the direct purchasers. company was about to be sold. The case had been stayed but was
returned to active status in early summer 2015. Since then, the
Wellbutrin XL parties engaged in discovery and re-briefed their summary
Plaintiffs claimed anti-trust injury related to allegedly sham patent judgement motions at the court’s request. However, although briefing
litigation filed by Biovail against generic companies pursuing ANDAs on the motions was completed in July 2016, the court has not yet
for generic Wellbutrin XL. The Group initially was named as a party ruled on the motions.
plaintiff in two patent infringement actions but later withdrew from
Environmental matters
those matters. The Group was not a party in the remaining two
The Group has been notified of its potential responsibility relating
patent infringement actions relating to Wellbutrin XL. Plaintiffs
to past operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain
alleged that a conspiracy to delay generic approval existed between
sites, primarily in the US. Some of these matters are the subject of
Biovail and the Group, but the Court granted summary judgement in
litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state
favour of the Group on those claims. The sole remaining claims in the
governments for waste disposal, site remediation costs and tort
matter relate to plaintiffs’ allegations that the Group entered into an
actions brought by private parties.
anti-competitive reverse payment settlement to resolve the patent
infringement litigation. The District Court granted summary The Group has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
judgement in favour of the Group on all claims, and the matter is approximately 21 sites, of which 11 appear on the National Priority
currently pending on appeal before the US Court of Appeals for the List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Third Circuit Court. Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund). These proceedings
seek to require the operators of hazardous waste facilities,
Commercial and corporate
transporters of waste to the sites and generators of hazardous waste
The Group is a defendant in certain cases which allege violation of
disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to reimburse the US
US federal securities and ERISA laws. The Group has been able
Government for cleanup costs. In most instances, the Group is
to make a reliable estimate of the expected financial effect of the
involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste.
matters discussed in this category and has included a provision for
such matters in the provision for legal and other disputes, except as Although Superfund provides that the defendants are jointly and
noted below. Matters for which the Group has made a provision are severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are frequently
also noted in Note 29, ‘Other provisions’. resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste disposed of
by the generator at the site. The Group’s proportionate liability for
cleanup costs has been substantially determined for 18 of the sites
referred to above.
The Group’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. While the
cost of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over
time, be significant, the Group routinely accrues amounts related to
its share of the liability for such matters.232 GSK Annual Report 2016
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc
prepared under UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
Directors’ statement of responsibilities in
relation to the company’s financial statements
The Directors are responsible for preparing the parent company, Disclosure of information to auditors
GlaxoSmithKline plc, financial statements and the Remuneration The Directors in office at the date of this Annual Report have each
report in accordance with applicable law and regulations. confirmed that:
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial – so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information
statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors of which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements
– he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken
in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and
as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit
applicable law (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware
Practice). Under company law the Directors must not approve the
of that information.
parent company financial statements unless they are satisfied that
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
company and its profit or loss for that period. with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Going concern basis
Having assessed the principal risks and other matters considered in
– select suitable accounting policies and then apply them
connection with the viability statement, the Directors considered it
consistently;
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in
– make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable preparing the financial statements.
and prudent;
The UK Corporate Governance Code
– state with regard to the parent company financial statements that The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject and complies with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Code maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in
company financial statements; and the Corporate Governance section on pages 79 to 110. The Board
further considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair,
– prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless
balanced and understandable, and provides the information
it is inappropriate to presume that the parent company will
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s position and
continue in business.
performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting
As required by the Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules, the
records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
auditors have considered the Directors’ statement of compliance in
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code
financial position of the company and to enable them to ensure that
which are specified for their review.
the parent company financial statements and Remuneration report
(on pages 111 to 136) comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Philip Hampton
The parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 Chairman
December 2016, comprising the balance sheet for the year ended
31 December 2016 and supporting notes, are set out on pages 13 March 2017
235 to 238 of this report.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the parent company
financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report
on pages 233 to 234.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 are
included in the Annual Report, which is published in printed form and
made available on our website. The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on our website in
accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements. Access to the website is
available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may
be different.
The Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report,
which represent the management report, include a fair review of
the development and performance of the business and the position
of the company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a
description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.233 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Independent Auditors’ report
Investor information
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
Report on the parent company financial
statements
Our Opinion ISAs (UK & Ireland) reporting
In our opinion, GlaxoSmithKline plc’s parent company financial Under International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland) (“ISAs
statements (the “financial statements”): (UK & Ireland)”) we are required to report to you if, in our opinion,
information in the Annual Report is:
– give a true and fair view of the state of the parent company’s
affairs at – materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial
statements; or
– 31 December 2016;
– apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
– have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
performing our audit; or
– have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
– otherwise misleading.
Companies Act 2006.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
What we have audited
The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, Adequacy of accounting records and information and
comprise: explanations received
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if,
– the Company balance sheet at 31 December 2016;
in our opinion:
– the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then
– we have not received all the information and explanations we
ended; and
require for our audit; or
– the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of
– adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the from branches not visited by us; or
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
– the financial statements and the part of the Directors’
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the
identified as audited. The financial reporting framework that has been
accounting records and returns.
applied in the preparation of the financial statements is applicable
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 Directors’ remuneration
“Reduced Disclosure Framework”. Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if,
Other required reporting in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report
Consistency of other information
arising from this responsibility.
Companies Act 2006 opinion
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the Directors’ Remuneration report – Companies Act 2006 opinion
audit; In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the
– the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’
Companies Act 2006.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if,
– the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been
in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
specified by law are not made. We have no exceptions to report
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group arising from this responsibility.
and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are
required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in
the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report. We have nothing to
report in this respect.234 GSK Annual Report 2016
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc continued
Report on the parent company financial statements continued
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in
Our responsibilities and those of the directors the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the
As explained more fully in the Directors’ Statement of audited financial statements and to identify any information that is
Responsibilities set out on page 232, the directors are responsible apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the
that they give a true and fair view. audit. If we become aware of any apparent material mis-statements
or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report. With
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial
respect to the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, we consider
statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs (UK &
whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable
Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing
legal requirements.
Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of
for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2016 and on
of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility
described as having been audited.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section
agreed by our prior consent in writing. 506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditor’s
What an audit of financial statements involves name should not be stated.
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs (UK & Ireland). An
audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
that the financial statements are free from material misstatement,
London
whether caused by fraud or error. This includes an assessment of:
– whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent 13 March 2017
company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and
adequately disclosed;
– the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by
the directors; and
– the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the
directors’ judgements against available evidence, forming our own
judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial
statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing
techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions. We obtain audit
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive
procedures or a combination of both.235 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
Investor information
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) as at 31 December 2016
2016 2016 2015 2015
Notes £m £m £m £m
Fixed assets – investments F 20,236 20,096
Current assets:
Trade and other receivables G 2,128 6,635
Cash at bank 12 2
Total current assets 2,140 6,637
Bank overdrafts (10) –
Trade and other payables H (555) (671)
Total current liabilities (565) (671)
Net current assets 1,575 5,966
Total assets less current liabilities 21,811 26,062
Provisions I (23) (40)
Other non-current liabilities J (534) (398)
Net assets 21,254 25,624
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital K 1,342 1,340
Share premium account K 2,954 2,831
Other reserves 1,420 1,420
Retained earnings:
At 1 January 20,033 23,251
(Loss)/profit for the year (111) 656
Other changes in retained earnings (4,384) (3,874)
L 15,538 20,033
Equity shareholders’ funds 21,254 25,624
The financial statements on pages 235 to 238 were approved by the Board on 13 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by
Philip Hampton
Chairman
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Registered number: 388879
Company statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 December 2016
Share Share premium Other Retained
capital account reserves earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1 January 2015 1,339 2,759 1,420 23,251 28,769
Profit attributable to shareholders – – – 656 656
Dividends to shareholders – – – (3,874) (3,874)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 1 72 – – 73
At 31 December 2015 1,340 2,831 1,420 20,033 25,624
Loss attributable to shareholders – – – (111) (111)
Dividends to shareholders – – – (4,850) (4,850)
Shares issued under employee share schemes 2 87 – – 89
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – 36 – 466 502
At 31 December 2016 1,342 2,954 1,420 15,538 21,254236 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’)
A) Presentation of the financial statements B) Accounting policies
Description of business Foreign currency transactions
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery, ruling on the date of transaction. Foreign currency assets and
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical liabilities are translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines sheet date.
and health-related consumer products.
Dividends paid and received
Preparation of financial statements Dividends paid and received are included in the financial statements
The financial statements, which are prepared using the historical in the period in which the related dividends are actually paid or
cost convention (as modified to include the revaluation of certain received.
financial instruments) and on a going concern basis, are prepared in
Expenditure
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
Disclosure Framework’ and with UK accounting presentation and the
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
Companies Act 2006 as at 31 December 2016, with comparative
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a
figures as at 31 December 2015.
past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the estimated.
income statement of the company is not presented in this Annual
Report. Investments in subsidiary companies
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any
The company is included in the Group financial statements of
provision for impairment and also adjusted for movements in
GlaxoSmithKline plc, which are publicly available.
contingent consideration.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have
been applied in the preparation of these financial statements, Impairment of investments
in accordance with FRS 101: The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment
when there is an indication that the investment might be impaired.
– Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based payment’
Any provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to
– IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments - Disclosures’ the income statement in the year concerned.
– Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’
Share based payments
– Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’
The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over
comparative information requirements in respect of
the company’s shares, represents additional capital contributions
paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1
by the company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in
– Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38(A), 38 (B to D), 40 (A to D),
subsidiaries results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’
111 and 134 to 136 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’
equity. The additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of
– IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’ the grant issued, allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
– Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes
in accounting estimates and errors’ Taxation
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
– Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ and the
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
further requirement in IAS 24 to disclose related party transactions
balance sheet date.
entered into between two or more members of
a Group. Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets
Accounting convention and standards
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are
cost convention and complies with applicable UK accounting
considered recoverable against future taxable profits.
standards.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected
Accounting principles and policies
to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences are
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally
expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax liabilities and assets
accepted accounting principles requires management to make
are not discounted.
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and Financial guarantees
liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts could Liabilities relating to guarantees issued by the company on behalf
differ from those estimates. of its subsidiaries are initially recognised at fair value and amortised
over the life of the guarantee.
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and Legal and other disputes
described in Note B. These policies have been consistently applied,
The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where
unless otherwise stated.
an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and
legal and other expenses arising from claims against the company.
At 31 December 2016 provisions for legal and other disputes
amounted to £23 million (2015 – £40 million).237 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
C) Key accounting judgements and estimates The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
Legal and other disputes provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
The company provides for anticipated settlement costs where proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reliable The position could change over time and, therefore, there can be no
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and assurance that any losses that result from the outcome of any legal
legal and other expenses arising from claims against the company. proceedings will not exceed the amount of the provisions reported
These estimates take into account the specific circumstances in the company’s financial statements by a material amount.
of each dispute and relevant external advice, are inherently
D) O perating profit
judgemental and could change substantially over time as new
A fee of £12,053 (2015 – £12,053) relating to the audit of the
facts emerge and each dispute progresses.
company has been charged in operating profit.
The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have
E) Dividends
established provisions after taking into account the relevant facts and
circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting The directors declared four interim dividends resulting in a dividend
requirements. At 31 December 2016 provisions for legal and other for the year of 80 pence, in line with the dividend for 2015. For further
disputes amounted to £23 million (2015 – £40 million). details, see Note 16 to the Group financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
F) Fixed assets – investments
2016 2015
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 613
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited 33 33
18,552 18,552
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 1,139 1,139
Contribution relating to contingent consideration 545 405
20,236 20,096
G) Trade and other receivables
2016 2015
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
UK Corporation tax recoverable 201 201
Other receivables 4 41
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 1,478 5,977
1,683 6,219
Amounts due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 445 416
2,128 6,635238 GSK Annual Report 2016
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
(including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) continued
H) Trade and other payables
2016 2015
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Other creditors 514 478
Contingent consideration payable 11 7
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 30 186
555 671
The company has guaranteed debt issued by its subsidiary companies from one of which it receives an annual fee. In aggregate, the company
has outstanding guarantees over £18.4 billion of debt instruments. The amounts due from the subsidiary company in relation to these
guarantee fees will be recovered over the life of the bonds and are disclosed within ‘Trade and other receivables’ (see Note G).
I) Provisions
2016 2015
£m £m
At 1 January 40 25
Exchange adjustments 13 3
Charge for the year 78 139
Utilised (108) (127)
At 31 December 23 40
The provisions relate to a number of legal and other disputes in which the company is currently involved.
J) Other non-current liabilities
2016 2015
£m £m
Contingent consideration payable 534 398
534 398
The contingent consideration relates to the amount payable for the acquisition in 2015 of the Novartis Vaccines portfolio. The current year
liability is included within ‘Trade and other payables’.
K) Called up share capital and share premium account
Share
premium
Ordinary Shares of 25p each
account
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31 December 2015 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31 December 2016 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1 January 2015 5,355,297,232 1,339 2,759
Issued under employee share schemes 6,010,415 1 72
At 31 December 2015 5,361,307,647 1,340 2,831
Issued under employee share schemes 7,008,415 2 87
Treasury shares transferred to the ESOP Trust – – 36
At 31 December 2016 5,368,316,062 1,342 2,954
31 December 31 December
2016 2015
000 000
Number of shares issuable under employee share schemes 71,382 99,833
Number of unissued shares not under option 4,560,302 4,538,859
At 31 December 2016, of the issued share capital, 42,710,419 shares were held in the ESOP Trusts, 458,205,950 shares were held as
Treasury shares and 4,867,399,693 shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid. The nominal, carrying and market values of the
shares held in the ESOP Trusts are disclosed in Note 43, ‘Employee share schemes’.
L) Reserves
The loss of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £111 million (2015 – £656 million profit), which after dividends of £4,850 million
(2015 – £3,874 million), gave a retained loss of £4,961 million (2015 – £3,218 million loss). No Treasury shares were purchased in the
year (2015 – £nil). After the effect of the £466 million Treasury shares transferred to a subsidiary company (2015 – £nil), retained earnings
at 31 December 2016 stood at £15,538 million (2015 – £20,033 million), of which £4,096 million was unrealised (2015 – £4,096 million).
M) Group companies
See pages 272 to 282 for a complete list of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, which forms part of these financial statements.239 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Investor
information
In this section
Quarterly trend 240
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 242
Five year record 244
Product development pipeline 247
Products, competition and intellectual property 250
Principal risks and uncertainties 253
Share capital and share price 263
Dividends 265
Financial calendar 265
Annual General Meeting 2017 266
Tax information for shareholders 266
Shareholder services and contacts 268
US law and regulation 270
Group companies 272
Glossary of terms 283240 GSK Annual Report 2016
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2016.
Income statement – total
12 months 2016 Q4 2016 Q3 2016 Q2 2016 Q1 2016
Reported Reported Reported Reported Reported
Pro-forma Pro-forma
£m CER% £% CER% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 16,104 3 14 4 4,575 4 22 4,061 6 22 3,882 2 10 3,586 (1) 2 5
Vaccines 4,592 14 26 12 1,137 – 18 1,613 20 37 960 11 18 882 23 26 14
Consumer Healthcare 7,193 9 19 5 1,874 2 20 1,868 5 18 1,690 7 12 1,761 26 27 4
27,889 6 17 5 7,586 3 21 7,542 8 24 6,532 5 11 6,229 9 11 6
Corporate and other unallocated turnover – – – – –
Total turnover 27,889 6 17 5 7,586 3 21 7,542 8 23 6,532 4 11 6,229 8 11 6
Cost of sales (9,290) (1) 5 (2,508) (9) (1) (2,525) 3 15 (2,124) 2 6 (2,133) 1 1
Selling, general and administration (9,366) (6) 1 (2,711) (7) 9 (2,292) 3 16 (2,174) (16) (14) (2,189) (2) (2)
Research and development (3,628) (6) 2 (1,003) (16) (5) (922) 1 11 (888) 4 9 (815) (9) (6)
Royalty income 398 16 21 117 22 29 107 1 8 83 31 34 91 16 18
Other operating income (3,405) (886) (479) (1,580) (460)
Operating profit/(loss) 2,598 (86) (75) 595 >100 >100 1,431 5 40 (151) >(100) >(100) 723 (93) (92)
Net finance costs (664) (173) (163) (165) (163)
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 5 1 6 (2) –
Profit/(loss) before taxation 1,939 (92) (82) 423 >100 >100 1,274 6 47 (318) >(100) >(100) 560 (95) (94)
Taxation (877) (106) (389) (174) (208)
Tax rate % 45.2% 25.1% 30.5% (54.7)% 37.1%
Profit/(loss) after taxation for the period 1,062 (98) (87) 317 97 >100 885 (6) 37 (492) >(100) >(100) 352 (97) (96)
Profit/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 150 60 77 (57) 70
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders 912 257 808 (435) 282
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 18.8p (99) (89) 5.3p >100 >100 16.6p (1) 50 (9.0)p >(100) >(100) 5.8p (97) (97)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 18.6p 5.2p 16.5p (9.0)p 5.8p
Income statement – core
Total turnover 27,889 6 17 5 7,586 3 21 7,542 8 23 6,532 4 11 6,229 8 11 6
Cost of sales (8,351) 5 11 3 (2,195) (2) 6 (2,289) 6 18 (1,931) 4 9 (1,936) 12 11 3
Selling, general and administration (8,697) 2 10 – (2,429) (1) 15 (2,165) 4 18 (2,053) (2) (2) (2,050) 8 10 1
Research and development (3,468) 3 12 3 (1,017) 6 20 (876) 8 20 (800) 4 9 (775) (5) (2) (7)
Royalty income 398 16 21 17 117 22 29 107 1 8 83 31 34 91 16 18 20
Operating profit 7,771 14 36 17 2,062 16 52 2,319 13 35 1,831 15 36 1,559 13 19 28
Net finance costs (652) (170) (160) (163) (159)
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 5 1 6 (2) –
Profit before taxation 7,124 16 40 1,893 18 58 2,165 14 38 1,666 19 42 1,400 15 21
Taxation (1,509) (410) (451) (354) (294)
Tax rate % 21.2% 21.7% 20.8% 21.3% 21.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,615 14 37 1,483 12 51 1,714 13 37 1,312 17 40 1,106 13 20
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 212 157 121 147
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,978 1,271 1,557 1,191 959
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 102.4p 12 35 26.1p 11 45 32.0p 12 39 24.5p 16 42 19.8p 8 14
The calculation of core results is described on page 57.241 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Quarterly trend continued
An unaudited analysis of the Group results is provided by quarter in Sterling for the financial year 2016.
Income statement – total
12 months 2016 Q4 2016 Q3 2016 Q2 2016 Q1 2016
Reported Reported Reported Reported Reported
Pro-forma Pro-forma
£m CER% £% CER% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% CER%
Turnover
Pharmaceuticals 16,104 3 14 4 4,575 4 22 4,061 6 22 3,882 2 10 3,586 (1) 2 5
Vaccines 4,592 14 26 12 1,137 – 18 1,613 20 37 960 11 18 882 23 26 14
Consumer Healthcare 7,193 9 19 5 1,874 2 20 1,868 5 18 1,690 7 12 1,761 26 27 4
27,889 6 17 5 7,586 3 21 7,542 8 24 6,532 5 11 6,229 9 11 6
Corporate and other unallocated turnover – – – – –
Total turnover 27,889 6 17 5 7,586 3 21 7,542 8 23 6,532 4 11 6,229 8 11 6
Cost of sales (9,290) (1) 5 (2,508) (9) (1) (2,525) 3 15 (2,124) 2 6 (2,133) 1 1
Selling, general and administration (9,366) (6) 1 (2,711) (7) 9 (2,292) 3 16 (2,174) (16) (14) (2,189) (2) (2)
Research and development (3,628) (6) 2 (1,003) (16) (5) (922) 1 11 (888) 4 9 (815) (9) (6)
Royalty income 398 16 21 117 22 29 107 1 8 83 31 34 91 16 18
Other operating income (3,405) (886) (479) (1,580) (460)
Operating profit/(loss) 2,598 (86) (75) 595 >100 >100 1,431 5 40 (151) >(100) >(100) 723 (93) (92)
Net finance costs (664) (173) (163) (165) (163)
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 5 1 6 (2) –
Profit/(loss) before taxation 1,939 (92) (82) 423 >100 >100 1,274 6 47 (318) >(100) >(100) 560 (95) (94)
Taxation (877) (106) (389) (174) (208)
Tax rate % 45.2% 25.1% 30.5% (54.7)% 37.1%
Profit/(loss) after taxation for the period 1,062 (98) (87) 317 97 >100 885 (6) 37 (492) >(100) >(100) 352 (97) (96)
Profit/(loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 150 60 77 (57) 70
Profit/(loss) attributable to shareholders 912 257 808 (435) 282
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 18.8p (99) (89) 5.3p >100 >100 16.6p (1) 50 (9.0)p >(100) >(100) 5.8p (97) (97)
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share (pence) 18.6p 5.2p 16.5p (9.0)p 5.8p
Income statement – core
Total turnover 27,889 6 17 5 7,586 3 21 7,542 8 23 6,532 4 11 6,229 8 11 6
Cost of sales (8,351) 5 11 3 (2,195) (2) 6 (2,289) 6 18 (1,931) 4 9 (1,936) 12 11 3
Selling, general and administration (8,697) 2 10 – (2,429) (1) 15 (2,165) 4 18 (2,053) (2) (2) (2,050) 8 10 1
Research and development (3,468) 3 12 3 (1,017) 6 20 (876) 8 20 (800) 4 9 (775) (5) (2) (7)
Royalty income 398 16 21 17 117 22 29 107 1 8 83 31 34 91 16 18 20
Operating profit 7,771 14 36 17 2,062 16 52 2,319 13 35 1,831 15 36 1,559 13 19 28
Net finance costs (652) (170) (160) (163) (159)
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates
and joint ventures 5 1 6 (2) –
Profit before taxation 7,124 16 40 1,893 18 58 2,165 14 38 1,666 19 42 1,400 15 21
Taxation (1,509) (410) (451) (354) (294)
Tax rate % 21.2% 21.7% 20.8% 21.3% 21.0%
Profit after taxation for the period 5,615 14 37 1,483 12 51 1,714 13 37 1,312 17 40 1,106 13 20
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 637 212 157 121 147
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,978 1,271 1,557 1,191 959
Adjusted earnings per share (pence) 102.4p 12 35 26.1p 11 45 32.0p 12 39 24.5p 16 42 19.8p 8 14
The calculation of core results is described on page 57.242 GSK Annual Report 2016
Financial record continued
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area 2016
Total US Europe International
2015
2016 (restated) Growth 2016 Growth 2016 Growth 2016 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 6,510 5,741 2 13 3,306 7 20 1,383 (10) (2) 1,821 3 16
Anoro Ellipta 201 79 >100 >100 139 >100 >100 39 >100 >100 23 >100 >100
Arnuity Ellipta 15 3 >100 >100 14 >100 >100 – – – 1 (100) >100
Avamys/Veramyst 277 229 8 21 25 (12) – 74 2 12 178 15 29
Flixotide/Flovent 637 623 (8) 2 378 (11) – 94 (8) 2 165 – 9
Incruse Ellipta 114 14 >100 >100 86 >100 >100 23 >100 >100 5 >100 >100
Nucala 102 1 >100 >100 71 >100 >100 23 >100 >100 8 – –
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 620 257 >100 >100 344 >100 >100 140 60 75 136 67 97
Seretide/Advair 3,485 3,681 (15) (5) 1,829 (13) (2) 835 (24) (18) 821 (7) 2
Ventolin 785 620 15 27 421 23 38 127 1 9 237 12 19
Other 274 234 (1) 17 (1) (100) 34 28 (3) 5 247 (2) 19
Cardiovascular, metabolic
and urology (CVMU) 860 858 (11) – 288 (18) (8) 323 12 24 249 (23) (12)
Avodart 635 657 (14) (3) 70 (63) (58) 317 13 25 248 (8) 5
Eperzan/Tanzeum 121 41 >100 >100 118 >100 >100 3 100 >100 – – –
Other 104 160 (42) (35) 100 (17) (7) 3 (60) (40) 1 (98) (98)
Immuno-inflammation 340 263 15 29 311 14 29 21 27 40 8 17 33
Benlysta 306 230 19 33 277 18 33 21 20 40 8 33 33
Other 34 33 (9) 3 34 (9) 3 – – – – – –
Other pharmaceuticals 2,297 2,445 (14) (6) 98 (69) (65) 627 (13) (4) 1,572 (4) 4
Dermatology 393 412 (12) (5) 16 (63) (61) 146 (2) 6 231 (9) (1)
Augmentin 563 528 – 7 – – – 177 (5) 4 386 2 8
Other anti-bacterials 169 184 (15) (8) 4 (50) (33) 49 (14) (4) 116 (13) (9)
Rare diseases 423 371 – 14 49 (4) 4 137 2 12 237 (1) 17
Oncology 161 255 (38) (37) (1) (100) >(100) – – – 162 73 76
Other 588 695 (23) (15) 30 (72) (68) 118 2 13 440 (19) (11)
Established products 2,541 2,528 (8) 1 702 (3) 9 513 (4) 4 1,326 (12) (4)
Coreg 131 123 (5) 7 131 (5) 7 – – – – – –
Hepsera 58 63 (17) (8) – – – – – – 58 (16) (6)
Imigran/Imitrex 177 160 3 11 85 8 12 62 4 11 30 (11) 7
Lamictal 614 531 5 16 313 5 18 106 1 10 195 9 15
Lovaza 43 93 (59) (54) 43 (59) (54) – – – – – –
Requip 116 93 8 25 13 >100 >100 30 (7) 3 73 3 24
Serevent 96 93 (6) 3 49 – 14 35 (11) (3) 12 (14) (14)
Seroxat/Paxil 206 165 10 25 15 (100) >(100) 40 6 14 151 (8) 6
Valtrex 118 165 (37) (28) 16 (30) (20) 25 (4) 4 77 (45) (36)
Zeffix 111 134 (24) (17) 2 – – 7 (14) – 102 (25) (18)
Other 871 908 (10) (4) 35 (6) 9 208 (8) – 628 (11) (6)
HIV 3,556 2,322 37 53 2,132 46 64 1,017 29 42 407 21 34
Combivir 23 34 (38) (32) 3 (75) (72) 6 (35) (28) 14 (16) (9)
Epzicom/Kivexa 568 698 (27) (19) 195 (32) (23) 251 (25) (17) 122 (21) (13)
Lexiva/Telzir 51 65 (26) (22) 29 (33) (24) 8 (42) (36) 14 4 (2)
Selzentry 125 124 (9) 1 65 (2) 10 41 (22) (14) 19 4 11
Tivicay 953 588 45 62 635 46 65 228 40 55 90 47 62
Triumeq 1,735 730 >100 >100 1,159 >100 >100 434 >100 >100 142 >100 >100
Trizivir 16 26 (42) (38) 5 (54) (49) 10 (35) (28) 1 (42) (61)
Other 85 57 33 49 41 (4) 8 39 >100 >100 5 (66) (59)
Pharmaceuticals 16,104 14,157 3 14 6,837 10 24 3,884 – 9 5,383 (3) 6
Vaccines turnover 2016
Total US Europe International
2015
2016 (restated) Growth 2016 Growth 2016 Growth 2016 Growth
Major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Rotarix 469 417 1 12 129 (17) (7) 75 8 17 265 10 24
Synflorix 504 381 19 32 – – – 68 59 74 436 15 27
Fluarix, FluLaval 414 268 38 54 315 42 60 32 26 39 67 31 40
Bexsero 390 115 >100 >100 122 >100 >100 236 >100 >100 32 >100 >100
Menveo 202 160 16 26 121 8 22 27 (31) (25) 54 >100 >100
Boostrix 470 358 18 31 238 1 14 139 43 58 93 39 52
Infanrix, Pediarix 769 733 (5) 5 338 12 26 335 (8) 1 96 (31) (27)
Hepatitis 602 540 1 11 294 (4) 8 197 17 28 111 (8) (2)
Priorix, Priorix Tetra, Varilrix 300 260 5 15 – – – 152 – 12 148 9 19
Cervarix 81 88 (14) (8) 1 (67) (67) 33 (22) (11) 47 (4) (2)
Other 391 336 6 17 41 (27) (21) 129 19 27 221 8 22
Vaccines 4,592 3,656 14 26 1,599 13 27 1,423 18 30 1,570 10 21
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.243 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area 2015
Total US Europe International
2015 2014 2015
(restated) (restated) Growth 2015 Growth (restated) Growth 2015 Growth
Therapeutic area/major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 5,741 6,168 (7) (7) 2,750 (10) (3) 1,415 (9) (15) 1,576 – (5)
Anoro Ellipta 79 17 >100 >100 56 >100 >100 16 >100 >100 7 >100 >100
Avamys/Veramyst 229 238 3 (4) 25 (26) (19) 66 4 (4) 138 9 –
Flixotide/Flovent 623 702 (12) (11) 379 (19) (13) 92 (1) (10) 152 1 (6)
Relvar/Breo Ellipta 257 67 >100 >100 108 >100 >100 80 >100 >100 69 >100 >100
Seretide/Advair 3,681 4,229 (13) (13) 1,865 (13) (6) 1,014 (18) (24) 802 (8) (12)
Ventolin 620 665 (7) (7) 304 (15) (8) 117 1 (6) 199 – (6)
Other 252 250 6 1 13 >100 >100 30 11 7 209 – (5)
Cardiovascular, metabolic and
urology (CVMU) 858 965 (9) (11) 314 (20) (14) 260 (3) (11) 284 – (7)
Avodart 657 805 (15) (18) 166 (41) (36) 254 (1) (9) 237 (4) (11)
Other 201 160 21 26 148 28 38 6 (46) (54) 47 23 21
Immuno-inflammation 263 214 16 23 242 14 23 15 42 25 6 20 20
Benlysta 230 173 25 33 209 24 34 15 42 25 6 20 20
Other 33 41 (24) (20) 33 (24) (20) – – – – – –
Other pharmaceuticals 2,445 3,582 (29) (32) 280 (62) (59) 657 (33) (38) 1,508 (15) (18)
Dermatology 412 470 (9) (12) 41 (20) (16) 138 (1) (8) 233 (12) (14)
Augmentin 528 573 (2) (8) – (100) (100) 170 (2) (10) 358 (2) (7)
Other anti-bacterials 184 215 (11) (14) 6 – – 51 (8) (16) 127 (12) (14)
Rare diseases 371 417 (6) (11) 47 (33) (30) 122 (1) (9) 202 (1) (6)
Oncology 255 1,202 (79) (79) 92 (83) (82) 70 (82) (83) 93 (65) (66)
Other 695 705 1 (1) 94 76 92 106 4 (7) 495 (6) (9)
Established products 2,528 3,011 (15) (16) 647 (30) (25) 493 (11) (18) 1,388 (8) (10)
Coreg 123 124 (8) (1) 123 (8) (1) – – – – – –
Hepsera 63 85 (27) (26) – – – 1 – – 62 (28) (27)
Imigran/Imitrex 160 172 (5) (7) 76 (11) (8) 56 – (8) 28 4 –
Lamictal 531 531 (1) – 266 (3) 5 96 (2) (9) 169 3 (1)
Lovaza 93 240 (64) (61) 93 (64) (61) – – – – – –
Requip 93 109 (10) (15) 5 (29) (29) 29 (23) (26) 59 – (6)
Serevent 93 108 (14) (14) 43 (7) – 36 (21) (25) 14 (12) (18)
Seroxat/Paxil 165 210 (16) (21) (13) – – 35 (12) (19) 143 (10) (14)
Valtrex 165 154 14 8 20 (27) (23) 24 (4) (11) 121 30 21
Zeffix 134 166 (22) (19) 2 (33) (33) 7 (13) (13) 125 (23) (19)
Other 908 1,112 (16) (18) 32 (63) (60) 209 (16) (22) 667 (11) (13)
HIV 2,322 1,498 54 55 1,301 77 91 716 46 34 305 15 8
Combivir 34 59 (42) (42) 10 (17) (11) 9 (46) (51) 15 (50) (49)
Epzicom/Kivexa 698 768 (7) (9) 258 (14) (7) 304 (1) (9) 136 (5) (12)
Lexiva/Telzir 65 87 (25) (25) 40 (21) (15) 12 (32) (39) 13 (27) (36)
Selzentry 124 136 (8) (9) 60 2 9 48 (10) (18) 16 (26) (30)
Tivicay 588 282 >100 >100 389 79 93 147 >100 >100 52 >100 >100
Triumeq 730 57 >100 >100 510 >100 >100 176 >100 >100 44 >100 >100
Trizivir 26 36 (28) (28) 9 (21) (15) 14 (29) (35) 3 (43) 11
Other 57 73 (19) (22) 25 (27) (24) 6 (36) (45) 26 – (7)
Pharmaceuticals 14,157 15,438 (7) (8) 5,534 (8) (1) 3,556 (8) (15) 5,067 (6) (10)
Vaccines turnover 2015
Total US Europe International
2015 2015
(restated) 2014 Growth 2015 Growth 2015 Growth (restated) Growth
Major products £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Rotarix 417 376 14 11 139 47 58 64 3 (4) 214 4 (3)
Synflorix 381 398 5 (4) – – – 39 8 (3) 342 4 (4)
Fluarix, FluLaval 268 215 21 25 197 28 38 23 14 5 48 2 (2)
Bexsero 115 – – – 17 – – 86 – – 12 – –
Menveo 160 – – – 99 – – 36 – – 25 – –
Boostrix 358 317 12 13 209 18 27 88 23 13 61 (12) (19)
Infanrix, Pediarix 733 828 (9) (11) 269 (17) (10) 332 (2) (10) 132 (9) (17)
Hepatitis 540 558 (4) (3) 273 7 16 154 (11) (17) 113 (12) (16)
Rabipur/RabAvert 61 – – – 28 – – 17 – – 16 – –
Cervarix 88 118 (20) (25) 3 (50) (50) 37 (15) (23) 48 (21) (24)
Other 535 349 65 52 24 >100 >100 221 56 44 290 64 48
Vaccines 3,656 3,159 19 16 1,258 24 34 1,097 23 14 1,301 12 4
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.244 GSK Annual Report 2016
Financial record continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided, analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The information included in the Five
year record is prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
With effect from 1 January 2016, GSK has reported turnover under three segments: Pharmaceuticals, which now includes HIV, Vaccines
and Consumer Healthcare. Comparative turnover information in all four years has been restated accordingly. Comparative information has
also been restated to reflect the current breakdown of the group by geographic region.
Comparative information for 2012 and 2013 is also reported including the effect of the divestments completed in 2013.
2015 2014 2013 2012
2016 (restated) (restated) (restated) (restated)
Group turnover by geographic region £m £m £m £m £m
US 10,197 8,222 7,409 8,695 8,330
Europe 7,498 6,450 6,292 6,681 6,675
International 10,194 9,251 9,305 10,226 10,478
27,889 23,923 23,006 25,602 25,483
Divestments – – – 903 948
Total turnover including divestments 27,889 23,923 23,006 26,505 26,431
Group turnover by segment
Pharmaceuticals 16,104 14,157 15,438 17,359 17,349
Vaccines 4,592 3,656 3,159 3,384 3,296
Consumer Healthcare 7,193 6,038 4,322 4,713 4,731
Segment turnover 27,889 23,851 22,919 25,456 25,376
Corporate and other unallocated turnover – 72 87 146 107
27,889 23,923 23,006 25,602 25,483
Divestments completed in 2013 – – – 903 948
27,889 23,923 23,006 26,505 26,431
Pharmaceuticals turnover by therapeutic area
Respiratory 6,510 5,741 6,168 7,259 7,016
Cardiovascular, Metabolic and urogenital 860 858 965 1,073 1,144
Immuno-inflammation 340 263 214 161 70
Other pharmaceuticals 2,297 2,445 3,582 3,611 3,394
Established Products 2,541 2,528 3,011 3,869 4,351
HIV 3,556 2,322 1,498 1,386 1,374
Pharmaceuticals 16,104 14,157 15,438 17,359 17,349
Vaccine turnover
4,592 3,656 3,159 3,384 3,296
Consumer Healthcare turnover
Wellness 3,726 2,970 1,565 1,807 1,941
Oral care 2,223 1,875 1,806 1,892 1,814
Nutrition 674 684 633 628 591
Skin health 570 509 318 386 385
7,193 6,038 4,322 4,713 4,731245 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Five year record continued
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Financial results – total £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,889 23,923 23,006 26,505 26,431
Operating profit 2,598 10,322 3,597 7,028 7,300
Profit before taxation 1,939 10,526 2,968 6,647 6,600
Profit after taxation 1,062 8,372 2,831 5,628 4,678
pence pence pence pence pence
Basic earnings per share 18.8 174.3 57.3 112.5 91.6
Diluted earnings per share 18.6 172.3 56.7 110.5 90.2
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
millions millions millions millions millions
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 4,860 4,831 4,808 4,831 4,912
Diluted 4,909 4,888 4,865 4,919 4,989
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Financial results – core £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 27,889 23,923 23,006 25,602 25,483
Operating profit 7,771 5,729 6,594 7,771 7,974
Profit before taxation 7,124 5,091 5,978 7,122 7,279
Profit after taxation 5,615 4,098 4,806 5,487 5,511
pence pence pence pence pence
Core earnings per share 102.4 75.7 95.4 108.4 107.4
% % % % %
Return on capital employed 28.0 152.4 46.6 91.4 84.9
Return on capital employed is calculated as total profit before taxation as a percentage of average net assets over the year.246 GSK Annual Report 2016
Financial record continued
Five year record continued
2014 2013 2012
2016 2015 (restated) (restated) (restated)
Balance sheet £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 42,370 36,859 25,973 26,859 27,789
Current assets 16,711 16,587 15,059 15,732 14,220
Total assets 59,081 53,446 41,032 42,591 42,009
Current liabilities (19,001) (13,417) (13,676) (14,182) (14,343)
Non-current liabilities (35,117) (31,151) (22,420) (20,597) (20,929)
Total liabilities (54,118) (44,568) (36,096) (34,779) (35,272)
Net assets 4,963 8,878 4,936 7,812 6,737
Shareholders’ equity 1,124 5,114 4,263 6,997 5,800
Non-controlling interests 3,839 3,764 673 815 937
Total equity 4,963 8,878 4,936 7,812 6,737
Number of employees
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
US 14,491 14,696 16,579 16,530 17,201
Europe 42,330 43,538 37,899 38,367 38,788
International 42,479 43,021 43,443 44,554 43,499
99,300 101,255 97,921 99,451 99,488
Manufacturing 38,372 38,855 32,171 31,502 31,369
Selling 38,158 39,549 42,785 45,397 45,601
Administration 11,244 11,140 10,630 10,232 9,607
Research and development 11,526 11,711 12,335 12,320 12,911
99,300 101,255 97,921 99,451 99,488
The geographic distribution of employees in the table above is based on the location of GSK’s subsidiary companies. The number of
employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are employed and
managed by GSK on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADS, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US Dollars for
Sterling as reported by the Bank of England (4pm buying rate).
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Average 1.35 1.53 1.65 1.56 1.59
For the purpose of the above table only, the average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the 4pm buying rates for each day of
the year.
2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 2016
Mar Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sep
High 1.23 1.26 1.26 1.27 1.26 1.28 1.34
Low 1.23 1.24 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.21 1.29
The 4pm buying rate on 3 March 2017 was £1= US$1.23.247 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Pipeline, products and competition
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline
Key † In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party S Month of first submission
^ V iiV Healthcare, a global specialist HIV company with BLA Biological Licence Application
GSK, Pfizer, Inc. and Shionogi Limited as shareholders, MAA Marketing Authorisation Application (Europe)
is responsible for developing and delivering HIV medicines. NDA New Drug Application (US)
* A lso being developed for indications in another Phase I E valuation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted
therapeutic area in volunteers
1 Option-based alliance with Ionis Pharmaceuticals Phase II D etermination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy,
2 Option-based alliance with Adaptimmune Ltd. conducted in a small number of patients
3 Option-based alliance with OncoMed Pharmaceuticals Phase III L arge comparative study (compound versus placebo
4 O ption-based alliance with Telethon and Ospedale and/or established treatment) in patients to establish
San Raffaele clinical benefit and safety
5 Option-based alliance with Valneva
MAA and NDA/BLA regulatory review milestones shown in the table below are those that have been achieved. Future filing dates are not included in this list.
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
HIV^ and Infectious Diseases
dolutegravir + HIV integrase inhibitor + non-nucleoside HIV infections – two drug maintenance regimen III
rilpivirine† reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)
dolutegravir + HIV integrase inhibitor + nucleoside reverse HIV infections III
lamivudine transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI)
3684934 HIV attachment inhibitor HIV infections III
cabotegravir HIV integrase inhibitor (long-acting parenteral HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis III
formulation)
cabotegravir + HIV integrase inhibitor + non-nucleoside HIV infections III
rilpivirine† reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)
(long-acting parenteral formulations)
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline plasmodium vivax malaria III
Relenza i.v.† neuraminidase inhibitor (i.v.) influenza III
gepotidacin type 2 topoisomerase inhibitor bacterial infections II
(2140944)
danirixin i.v. chemokine (C-X-C Motif) receptor 2 influenza* II
(CXCR2) antagonist
2878175+RG101† nonstructural protein 5B (NS5B) polymerase hepatitis C II
inhibitor + anti-miR122 antisense oligonucleotide
3342830 antibacterial cephalosporin bacterial infection I
2838232 HIV maturation inhibitor HIV infections I
32288361 HBV antisense oligonucleotide hepatitis B I
33894041 HBV LICA antisense oligonucleotide hepatitis B I
Respiratory
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting beta2 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) Submitted S: Dec16 S: Nov16
+ vilanterol† agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist
+ umeclidinium
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody COPD* III
fluticasone furoate glucocorticoid agonist + long-acting beta2 asthma III
+ vilanterol† agonist + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist
+ umeclidinium
961081† muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist, beta2 COPD II
agonist (MABA)
961081† + muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist, beta2 COPD II
fluticasone furoate agonist (MABA) + glucocorticoid agonist
danirixin chemokine (C-X-C Motif) receptor 2 (CXCR2) COPD* II
antagonist (oral)
2269557 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta (PI3Kδ) COPD (acute and chronic) II
inhibitor
2586881† recombinant human angiotensin converting acute lung injury II
enzyme 2 (rhACE2)
2862277 tumour necrosis factor receptor-1 (TNFR1) acute lung injury II
domain antibody
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome* II
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody nasal polyposis* II
2245035 toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist asthma II
sirukumab† interleukin 6 (IL6) human monoclonal antibody (s.c.) severe asthma* II248 GSK Annual Report 2016
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Respiratory continued
2269557 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase delta activated PI3K delta syndrome I
(PI3Kδ) inhibitor
3772847† interleukin 33r (IL33r) monoclonal severe asthma I
antibody
2586881† recombinant human angiotensin pulmonary arterial hypertension I
converting enzyme 2 (rhACE2)
3008348 alpha V beta 6 integrin antagonist idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis I
2269557 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase bronchietasis I
delta (PI3Kδ) inhibitor
Oncology
33777942 NY-ESO-1 autologous engineered sarcoma, multiple myeloma, non-small cell lung II
TCR-T cells (engineered TCR) cancer, melanoma and ovarian cancer
tarextumab3 notch 2/3 monoclonal antibody small cell lung cancer II
3174998† OX40 agonist monoclonal antibody solid tumours and haematological malignancies I
2816126 enhancer of zeste homologue2 solid tumours and haematological malignancies I
(EZH2) inhibitor
525762 BET family bromodomain inhibitor solid tumours and haematological malignancies I
2879552 lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) acute myeloid leukemia and small cell lung cancer I
inhibitor
2857916† B-cell maturation antigen antibody multiple myeloma I
drug conjugate
3326595 protein arginine methyltransferase 5 cancer I
(PRMT5) inhibitor
3359609 induced T-cell costimulator (ICOS) cancer I
agonist antibody
1795091 toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist cancer I
2636771 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) castration resistant prostate cancer I
beta inhibitor
Immuno-inflammation
sirukumab† interleukin 6 (IL6) human monoclonal rheumatoid arthritis* Submitted S: Sep16 S: Sep16
antibody
Benlysta B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus* Submitted S: Sep16 S: Sep16
antibody (s.c.)
sirukumab† interleukin 6 (IL6) human monoclonal giant cell arteritis* III
antibody
3196165† granulocyte macrophage colony- osteoarthritis II
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody
3196165† granulocyte macrophage colony- rheumatoid arthritis II
stimulating factor monoclonal antibody
Benlysta + Rituxan B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal Sjogren’s syndrome II
antibody (s.c.) + cluster of differentiation
20 (CD20) monoclonal antibody (i.v.)
2982772 receptor-interacting protein 1 (RIP1) psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis II
kinase inhibitor
3117391† macrophage targeted histone rheumatoid arthritis II
deacetylase inhibitor
2330811 oncostatin M (OSM) monoclonal systemic sclerosis I
antibody
2982772 receptor-interacting protein 1 (RIP1) ulcerative colitis I
kinase inhibitor
2618960 interleukin 7 (IL7) receptor monoclonal Sjogren's syndrome I
antibody
2646264 spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) inhibitor chronic urticaria I
(topical)
2831781† lymphocyte activation gene 3 (LAG3) autoimmune disease I
protein monoclonal antibody
3050002† chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 20 psoriatic arthritis I
(CCL20) monoclonal antibody
3179106 rearranged during transfection (RET) inflammatory disorders of bowel I
kinase inhibitor249 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines product development pipeline continued
Achieved regulatory
review milestones
Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA/BLA
Rare diseases
Strimvelis† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy adenosine deaminase severe combined immune Approved A: May16
deficiency (ADA-SCID)
29987281 transthyretin (TTR) production inhibitor transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis III
2696274† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy metachromatic leukodystrophy III
2696275† ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome III
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis* III
2398852† serum amyloid P component (SAP) amyloidosis II
+ 2315698† monoclonal antibody + SAP depleter
(CPHPC)
26962774 ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy beta-thalassemia II
2256098 focal adhesion kinase inhibitor pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) I
Vaccines
Shingrix† recombinant Herpes Zoster prophylaxis Submitted S: Nov16 S: Oct 16
(Zoster Vaccine)
MMR live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis III (US) N/A
Ebola† recombinant viral vector Ebola haemorrhagic fever prophylaxis II
Group B conjugated Group B streptococcus prophylaxis II
Streptococcus (maternal immunisation)
S. pneumoniae recombinant – conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis II
next generation†
COPD† recombinant reduction of the frequency of moderate and severe acute II
exacerbations in COPD patients by targetting non-
typeable Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis
Hepatitis C† recombinant viral vector hepatitis C virus prophylaxis II
Malaria next generation† recombinant malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) II
Men ABCWY recombinant – conjugated meningococcal A,B,C,W and Y disease prophylaxis II
in adolescents
Shigella† conjugated and outer membrane Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis II
Tuberculosis† recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
RSV recombinant respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis II
(maternal immunisation)
RSV replication-defective recombinant respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis II
viral vector
HIV† recombinant proteins HIV infection prophylaxis II
Other pharmaceuticals
Metabolic
retosiban oxytocin antagonist spontaneous pre-term labour III
daprodustat (1278863) prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor (oral) anaemia associated with chronic renal disease III
2330672 ileal bile acid transport (IBAT) inhibitor cholestatic pruritus II
2798745 transient receptor potential cation heart failure II
channel V4 (TRPV4) antagonist
1070806 interleukin 18 (IL18) neutralisation mAb delayed graft function after renal transplantation II
otelixizumab cluster of differentiation 3 (CD3) new onset type 1 diabetes II
monoclonal antibody
daprodustat (1278863)prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor (topical) wound healing I
3008356 diglyceride acyltransferase (DGAT) 1 nonalcoholic steatohepatitis I
inhibitor
2881078 selective androgen receptor modulator muscle wasting I
oxytocin (inhaled)† oxytocin postpartum hemorrhage I
Dermatology
mepolizumab interleukin 5 (IL5) monoclonal antibody atopic dermatitis* II
2894512† non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (topical) atopic dermatitis II
2894512† non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (topical) psoriasis II
2981278 ROR gamma inverse agonist (topical) psoriasis II
Neurosciences
IONIS-GSK4-L1 ocular target LICA antisense geographic atrophy age-related macular disease I
oligonucleotide
Brand names appearing in italics are trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies250 GSK Annual Report 2016
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Respiratory
Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium bromide/ COPD Spiriva Handihaler/ 2025 2029
vilanterol terfenatate Respimat, Stiolto/ (NCE) (NCE)
Spiolto Respimat 2027-2030 2022-2025
Ultibro Breezhaler, (device/formulation) (device/formulation)
Duaklir Genuair
Bevespi Aerosphere
Arnuity Ellipta fluticasone furoate asthma Qvar, Pulmicort 2021 NA
Asmanex, Alvesco (NCE)
2027-2030
(device/formulation)
Avamys/Veramyst fluticasone furoate rhinitis Nasonex 20212 2023
Flixotide/Flovent fluticasone propionate asthma/COPD Qvar, Singulair expired expired
(Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2018-20261 2017
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Incruse Ellipta umeclidinium bromide COPD Spiriva Handihaler/ 2025 2029
Respimat, Eklira Genuair (NCE) (NCE)
2027-2030 2022-2025
(device/formulation) (device/formulation)
Nucala mepolizumab severe eosinophilic asthma Xolair, Cinqair expired4 20204
Relvar/Breo Ellipta fluticasone furoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, 2022 2027
vilanterol terfenatate Flutiform, Dulera (NCE) (NCE)
2027-2030 2022-2025
(device/formulation) (device/formulation)
Seretide/Advair* salmeterol xinafoate/ asthma/COPD Symbicort, Foster, expired expired
fluticasone propionate Flutiform, Dulera (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
2018-20261 20175
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Serevent salmeterol xinafoate asthma/COPD Foradil, Spiriva, expired expired
Handihaler/Respimat (Diskus device) (Diskus device)
Onbrez 2019
(HFA-device)
Ventolin HFA albuterol sulphate asthma/COPD generic companies 2018-20261 2017
(HFA-device) (HFA-device)
Anti-virals
Valtrex valaciclovir genital herpes, coldsores, shingles Famvir expired expired
Zeffix/Epivir-HBV lamivudine chronic hepatitis B Hepsera expired expired
Central nervous system
Lamictal lamotrigine epilepsy, bipolar disorder Keppra, Dilantin expired expired
Imigran/Imitrex sumatriptan migraine Zomig, Maxalt, Relpax expired expired
Seroxat/Paxil paroxetine depression, various anxiety Effexor, Cymbalta, expired expired
disorders Lexapro
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Eperzan/Tanzeum albiglutide Type 2 diabetes Victoza, Byetta 2022 2027
Bydureon, Lyxumia
Trulicity
Avodart dutasteride benign prostatic hyperplasia Proscar, Flomax, expired 2017
finasteride
Coreg CR carvedilol phosphate mild-to-severe heart failure, Toprol XL 20261,2 NA
hypertension, left ventricular (formulation)
dysfunction post MI
* See ’Principal risks and uncertainties’ on page 254 for details of uncertainty on the timing of follow-on competition.
1 See Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
2 Generic competition possible in 2017.
3 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.
4 Data exclusivity expires 2025 (EU) and 2027 (US).
5 Generic competition exists in some markets.251 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Pharmaceutical products, competition and intellectual property continued
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Anti-bacterials
Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate common bacterial generic products NA expired
potassium infections
Rare diseases
Volibris ambrisentan pulmonary hypertension Tracleer, Revatio NA 2020
Immuno-inflammation
Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus 2023 2026
HIV
Epzicom/Kivexa lamivudine and abacavir HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired 20191,2
Descovy, Genvoya (combination)
Odefsey
Lexiva/Telzir fosamprenavir HIV/AIDS Prezista, Kaletra, 20181 2019
Reyataz
Selzentry/Celsentri maraviroc HIV/AIDS Isentress, Intelence, 2021 2022
Prezista
Tivicay dolutegravir HIV/AIDS Isentress, Prezista 2027 2029
Reyataz, Kaletra
Triumeq dolutegravir, lamivudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla 2027 2029
and abacavir Descovy, Genvoya
Odefsey
Trizivir lamivudine, zidovudine HIV/AIDS Truvada, Atripla expired expired
and abacavir Descovy, Genvoya
Odefsey
Vaccines products, competition and intellectual property
Major Patent expiry dates3
Products Compounds Indication(s) competitor brands US EU
Bexsero meningococcal group-B Meningitis group B prevention Trumenba 2027 20281
vaccine
Boostrix diphtheria, tetanus, acellular diphtheria, tetanus, acellular Adacel 2017 2017
pertussis Pertussis booster vaccination
Infanrix Hexa/Pediarix diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, Prophylaxis against diphtheria, Pentacel, Pediacel, 2018 expired
polio, hepatitis B, Haemophilus tetanus, pertussis, polio, Pentaxim, Pentavac,
influenzae type B (EU) hepatitis B, Haemophilus Hexaxim, Hexyon
influenzae type B (EU) Vaxelis
Cervarix HPV 16 & 18 virus like human papilloma virus Gardasil (Silgard) 2020 2020
particles (VLPs), AS04 type 16 and 18
adjuvant (MPL + aluminium
hydroxide)
Fluarix Tetra split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Intenza, Flumist QIV, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Vaxigrip QIV,
and 2 subtype B) Fluzone QIV,
Fluzone High Dose
FluLaval split inactivated influenza seasonal influenza prophylaxis Vaxigrip, Mutagrip, 2022 2022
antigens (2 virus subtypes A Fluzone, Influvac,
and 2 subtype B) Aggripal, Fluad,
Intenza, Flumist
Menveo meningococcal group A, C, W- Meningitis group A, C, W-135 Mencevax, Menactra 2025 2025
135 and Y conjugate vaccine and Y prophylaxis
Prepandrix derived split inactivated pandemic H5N1 influenza Aflunov, Vepacel – 2026
influenza virus antigen, prophylaxis
AS03 adjuvant
Priorix2, Priorix Tetraa,b live attenuated measles, mumps, measles, mumps, rubella and MMR II (M-M-RVaxPro) 20194 expired
Varilrixb rubella and varicella vaccine chickenpox prophylaxis Proquad, Varivax
Rotarix Human rotavirus RIX4414 strain Rotavirus prophylaxis Rotateq – 2020
Synflorix conjugated pneumococcal Prophylaxis against invasive Prevenar (Prevnar) NA 2024
polysaccharide disease, pneumonia,
acute otitis media
1 See Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. 4 Refers to Priorix and Priorix Tetra, as all patents on Varilrix have expired.
2 Generic competition commenced in many markets during 2016. a Related compounds/indications are measles, mumps and rubella vaccine/prophylaxis
3 Includes Supplementary Protection Certificates which were granted in b Related compound is varicella vaccine
multiple countries in EU and patent term extensions granted in the US.252 GSK Annual Report 2016
Pipeline, products and competition continued
Consumer Healthcare products and competition
Brand Products Application Markets Competition
Wellness
Panadol and tablets, caplets, infant paracetamol-based treatment global (except US) Advil, Pfizer
Panadol Cold syrup drops for headache, joint pain, fever, Aspirin, Bayer
& Flu cold symptoms Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Voltaren topical gel non-steroidal, diclofenac based global Advil, Pfizer
anti-inflammatory Aspirin, Bayer
Tylenol, Johnson & Johnson
Otrivin nasal spray nasal decongestant Germany, Poland, Afrin, Merck
Russia, Sweden, Ukraine Nasivin, Merck
Theraflu tablets and syrups cold and flu relief Russia, Poland, Ukraine, Tylenol Cold & Flu,
US Johnson & Johnson
Mucinex, Reckitt Benckiser
Lemsip, Reckitt Benckiser
Flonase nasal spray allergy relief US Claritin, Bayer, Nasacort, Sanofi
Flixonase, Piriton nasal spray, tablets allergy relief UK, Ireland Benadryl, Johnson & Johnson
ENO effervescent immediate relief antacid global (except US) Estomazil, Hypermarca
Gelusil, Pfizer
Tums chewable tablets immediate relief antacid US Alka-Seltzer, Bayer
Gaviscon, Reckitt Benckiser
Rolaids, Sanofi
Nicorette (US), lozenges, gum and trans-dermal treatment of nicotine withdrawal global Nicorette, Johnson & Johnson
NicoDerm, patches as an aid to smoking reduction NiQuitin, Perrigo
Nicotinell and cessation
(ex. Australia)
Oral health
Sensodyne, toothpastes, toothbrushes, relief of dentinal hypersensitivity. global Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief,
Pronamel mouth rinse Pronamel additionally protects Colgate-Palmolive
against acid erosion Elmex, Colgate-Palmolive
Oral B, Procter & Gamble
Parodontax/ toothpaste, medicated helps prevent bleeding gums, Germany, Ireland Colgate Total Gum Health,
Corsodyl mouthwash, gel and spray treats and prevents gingivitis Italy, United Kingdom Colgate-Palmolive
Yunnan Baiyao, State
Enterprise (China)
Polident, denture adhesive, denture improve retention and comfort global Fixodent and Kukident,
Poligrip, cleanser of dentures, cleans dentures Procter & Gamble,
Corega Steradent, Reckitt Benckiser
Aquafresh toothpastes, toothbrushes aids prevention of dental cavities, global Colgate, Colgate-Palmolive
mouthwashes maintains healthy teeth, gums Crest, Procter & Gamble
and fresh breath Oral-B, Procter & Gamble
Skin health
Zovirax topical cream and lip care to treat and prevent global Compeed, Johnson & Johnson
Abreva non-medicated patch the onset of cold sores Carmex, Carma Labs
Blistex, Blistex Incorporated
retail own label
Nutrition
Horlicks malted drinks and foods nutritional Indian sub-continent, Bournvita, Mondelez
beverages & food United Kingdom, Ireland Complan, Heinz253 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Principal risks and uncertainties
Investor information
The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Similarly, our business exposes us to litigation and government
relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation,
that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives. patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
The risks below are those that we believe could cause our actual Litigation and government investigations, including related provisions
results to differ materially from expected and historical results. we may make for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related
costs such as insurance premiums, could materially and adversely
We must adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and
affect our financial results.
regulations. These requirements apply to research and development,
manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in our
Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products and significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in
affect not only the cost of product development but also the time Note 46, ‘Legal proceedings,’ on pages 226 to 231.
required to reach the market and the likelihood of doing so
UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a
successfully.
company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties. A
Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental summary of the activities that the Group takes to manage each of
interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of our principal risks accompanies the description of each principal
a particular risk may change. Changes to certain regulatory regimes risk below. The principal risks and uncertainties are not listed in
may be substantial. Any change in, and any failure to comply with, order of significance.
applicable law and regulations could materially and adversely affect
our financial results.
Patient safety
Risk definition Individual Medical Officers within the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and
Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse Consumer Healthcare businesses and the Group’s substantial
events from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings Safety and Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse
in a timely manner. issues reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
Once a Group product is approved for marketing, the Group has
Risk impact
an extensive post-marketing surveillance and signal detection
The impact of this risk is potentially to compromise our ability to
system. Information on possible side effects of products is received
conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to
from several sources including unsolicited reports from health
ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk/
professionals and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and
benefit profile of our products, including the completeness and
scientific literature and the media. It is our policy that employees
accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional studies/
are required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or
analyses, as appropriate. This could lead to potential harm to
quality of our products. Each of our country managers is responsible
patients, reputational damage, product liability claims or other
for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the
litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as
collection of safety information and reporting the information to the
fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation.
relevant central safety department, in accordance with Group policy
Context and legal requirements.
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development
Information that changes the risk/benefit profile of one of the Group’s
of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
products will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate
Products to determine the safety and efficacy of the products for use
and minimise the risk. Proposed actions are discussed with
by humans. Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the
regulatory authorities and can include modifying the prescribing
safety of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical
information, communications to physicians and other healthcare
trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when
providers, restrictions on product prescribing/availability to help
products are widely introduced into the marketplace. Questions
assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
about the safety of our products may be raised not only by our
In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to
ongoing safety surveillance and post-marketing studies but also by
withdraw the medicine from the market. The Group’s Global Safety
governmental agencies and third-parties that may analyse publicly
Board (GSB), comprising senior physicians and representatives of
available clinical trial results.
supporting functions, is an integral component of the system.
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability The GSB (including subsidiary boards dedicated to Consumer
lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for Healthcare Products and Vaccines) reviews the safety of
damages related to our products. Litigation, particularly in the US, is investigational and marketed products across the Group and has
inherently unpredictable. Class actions that seek to sweep together the authority to stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial
all persons who take our products increase the potential liability. is not ethically or scientifically justified in light of information that has
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently emerged since the start of the trial.
asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent
In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group
potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially and
as described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster
adversely affect the Group’s financial results.
the early evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they
Mitigating activities arise and of potential claims even before they arise. The goal of
The Chief Medical Officer (CMO) is responsible for medical the programmes is to create a culture of early identification and
governance for the Group under a global policy. Under that policy, evaluation of risks and claims (actual or potential), in order to
safeguarding human subjects in our clinical trials and patients who minimise liability and litigation.
take our products is of paramount importance, and the CMO has
the authoritative role for evaluating and addressing matters of
human safety.254 GSK Annual Report 2016
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Intellectual property
Risk definition The expiration dates for patents for our major products which may
Failure to appropriately secure, maintain and enforce intellectual affect the dates on which generic versions of our products may be
property rights. introduced are set out on pages 250 to 251. The listed annual
expiration dates are not meant to indicate the certainty of exclusivity
Risk impact
for the listed products, as patents may be designed around or
Any failure to obtain or subsequent loss of patent protection in a
invalidated prior to their expiration, resulting in earlier entry of a
market, including reducing the availability or scope of patent rights or
generic product. Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are
compulsory licensing (in which a government forces a manufacturer
set out in Note 46 to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
to license its patents for specific products to a competitor), could
materially and adversely affect our financial results in that market. Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to
Absence of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection in a market market generic versions of many of our most important products prior
could limit the opportunity to rely on that market for future sales to the expiration of our patents. Their efforts may involve challenges
growth for our products, which could also materially and adversely to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their
affect our financial results in that market. generic product does not infringe our patents. As a result, we are
and may continue to be involved in legal proceedings involving patent
Context
challenges, which may materially and adversely affect our financial
As an innovative Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
results. Moreover, in the US, it has become common for patent
Products company, we seek to obtain appropriate intellectual
infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have been
property protection for our products. Our ability to obtain and enforce
violated during the prosecution of the patent or during litigation
patents and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is
involving the defence of that patent. Such claims by direct and
critical to our business strategy and success. Pharmaceutical
indirect purchasers and other payers are typically filed as class
products are usually only protected from being copied by generic
actions. The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution
manufacturers during the period of exclusivity provided by an issued
claims. Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by government
patent or related intellectual property rights such as regulatory data
entities or private parties following settlement of patent litigation,
protection or orphan drug status. Following expiration of certain
alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation
intellectual property rights, a generic manufacturer may lawfully
of anti-trust laws. A successful anti-trust claim by a private party or
produce a generic version of the product.
government entity could materially and adversely affect our financial
We operate in markets where intellectual property laws and patent results.
offices are still developing and where governments may be unwilling
Mitigating activities
to grant or enforce intellectual property rights in a fashion similar to
Our Global Patents group focuses on securing, maintaining and
more developed regions such as the EU, Japan and the US. Some
enforcing our patent rights. This global group maintains internal
developing countries have limited, or threatened to limit, effective
processes designed to seek to ensure successful procurement,
patent protection for pharmaceutical products in order to facilitate
enforcement and defence of our patents with the goal of lawfully
early competition within their markets from generic manufacturers.
maintaining exclusive rights in markets for our products.
We face competition from manufacturers of proprietary and generic
The Global Patents group monitors new developments in
pharmaceutical products in all of our major markets. Introduction of
international patent law to seek to ensure appropriate protection of
generic products, particularly in the US where we have our highest
our assets. Sometimes acting through trade associations, we work
turnover and margins, typically leads to a rapid and dramatic loss of
with local governments to seek to secure effective and balanced
sales and reduces our revenues and margins for our proprietary
intellectual property laws designed to meet the needs of patients
products. Since there is no abbreviated pathway that leads to
and payers while supporting long-term investment in innovation.
substitutable generic vaccines, competition in that market arises from
branded products or generic branded products and erosion of sales,
revenues and margins is less dramatic. In addition, the proprietary
technology used in manufacture and the capital investment in
facilities create barriers to entry into the vaccine markets.
We depend on certain key products for a significant portion of our
sales. One such product is our respiratory pharmaceutical product
Seretide/Advair which accounts for significant Group sales
worldwide. The patent for compositions containing the combination
of active substances in Seretide/Advair has expired. Generic
products containing the same combination of active substances as
Seretide/Advair (in both dry powder inhalers and metered dose
inhalers) have been launched by several manufacturers in a number
of European markets. New drugs applications (ANDAs) have been
filed in the US by generic competitors for Seretide/Advair Diskus.
The date of such approvals is uncertain at this time but could come
as early as March 2017. The timing of an ANDA for Advair HFA in
the US is uncertain. We have patents on the formulation and device
used in the metered dose inhaler, although the protection afforded
by these patents is uncertain at present. Similar patents exist for
Ventolin HFA and Flovent HFA.255 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Product quality
Risk definition An extensive global network of quality and compliance professionals
Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices is aligned with each business unit to provide oversight and assist
(cGMP) or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the with the delivery of quality performance and operational compliance,
supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and from site level to senior management level. Management oversight
distribution of products. of those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of Quality
Councils and through an independent Chief Product Quality
Risk impact
Officer and Global Product Quality Office. In 2016 we introduced
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching
a revised approach to monitoring Regulated Quality (GxP)
implications in terms of patient and consumer safety resulting in
performance to provide the Corporate Executive Team with an
product launch delays, supply interruptions and product recalls
integrated assessment of key performance indicators (KPIs).
which would have the potential to do damage to GSK’s reputation.
The defined KPIs cover manufacturing practice, clinical practice,
Associated regulatory, legal, and financial consequences could
pharmacovigilance practice, regulatory practice, drug safety
materially and adversely affect company reputation and financial
assessment, and animal welfare.
results.
We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and
Context
managing third party suppliers that provide materials which are used
Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality
in finished products. Contract manufacturers making our products
of our products. Product quality may be influenced by many factors
are expected to comply with GSK standards and are regularly
including product and process understanding, consistency of
audited to provide assurance that standards are met.
manufacturing components, compliance with GMP, accuracy of
labelling, reliability of the external supply chain, and the embodiment All staff members are regularly trained to ensure that cGMP
of an overarching quality culture. The internal and external standards and behaviours based on our values are followed.
environment continues to evolve as new products, new markets Additionally, advocacy and communication programmes are routinely
and new legislation are introduced, with increasing scrutiny of data deployed to ensure consistent messages are conveyed across the
integrity, supply continuity and drug shortages. Review of inspections organisation, whether they originate from changes in regulation,
conducted across the industry by national regulatory authorities learnings from inspections, or regulatory submissions. There is a
during 2016 highlighted an ongoing focus on data integrity, third continued emphasis on the value of quality performance metrics to
party oversight and the timely escalation of pertinent issues to facilitate improvement and foster a culture of ‘right first time’.
regulatory authorities.
Mitigating activities
We have developed and implemented a single Pharmaceutical
Quality System (PQS) that defines the quality standards and systems
for our businesses associated with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and
Consumer Healthcare products and clinical trial materials. This
system has a broad scope and is applicable throughout the product
lifecycle from R&D to mature commercial supply.
There is no single external quality standard or system that governs
the detailed global regulatory expectations for the quality of medicinal
products. Requirements are often complex and fragmented across
national and regional boundaries. Consequently, we have adopted
the internationally recognised principles from the ‘ICH Q10:
Pharmaceutical Quality Systems’ framework as the basis for the
GSK PQS. This is an industry standard which incorporates quality
concepts throughout the product lifecycle. The GSK PQS is
augmented by a consolidation of the numerous regulatory
requirements defined by markets across the world, which assures
that the GSK PQS meets external expectations for product quality
in the markets supplied. The PQS is regularly updated to ensure
that it keeps pace with the evolving external regulatory environment.
New scientific understanding and operational improvements are
incorporated into the PQS to support the delivery of consistent
and reliable products.256 GSK Annual Report 2016
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Financial controls and reporting
Risk definition There continues to be a significant international focus on tax reform,
Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant losses including the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS)
due to treasury activities; failure to report accurate financial project and European Commission initiatives such as the increased
information in compliance with accounting standards and applicable use of fiscal state aid investigations. Together with domestic
legislation; failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight initiatives around the world, these may result in significant changes to
over third-party relationships. established tax principles and an increase in tax authority disputes.
These, regardless of their merit or outcomes, can be costly, divert
Risk impact
management attention and may adversely impact our reputation.
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and
disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an integral
and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action and part of the solution to improve our productivity, quality, service and
could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Changes innovation. We rely on third parties, including suppliers, distributors,
in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters such as individual contractors, licensees, and other pharmaceutical and
transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax biotechnology collaboration partners for discovery, manufacture,
credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief and marketing of our products and important business processes.
allowed on the interest on intra-group debt, could impact our
Third party business relationships present a material risk. For
effective tax rate. Significant losses may arise from inconsistent
example, we share critical and sensitive information such as
application of treasury policies, transactional or settlement errors, or
marketing plans, clinical data, and employee data with specific
counterparty defaults. Any changes in the substance or application
third parties who are conducting the relevant outsourced business
of the governing tax laws, failure to comply with such tax laws or
operations. Inadequate protection or misuse of this information by
significant losses due to treasury activities could materially and
third parties could have significant business impact. Similarly, we use
adversely affect our financial results.
distributors and agents in a range of activities such as promotion and
Failure to adequately manage third party relationships could result in tendering which have inherent risks such as inappropriate promotion
business disruption and exposure to risk ranging from sub-optimal or unethical business practices. Insufficient internal compliance and
contractual terms and conditions, to severe business sanctions and/ controls by the distributors could affect our reputation. These risks
or significant reputational damage. Any of these consequences could are further increased by the complexities of working with large
materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial numbers of third parties.
results.
Mitigating activities
Context The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify
The Group is required by the laws of various jurisdictions to disclose material errors in financial reporting and disclosure. The design
publicly its financial results and events that could materially affect and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls are
the financial results of the Group. Regulators routinely review the regularly tested by management and via independent business
financial statements of listed companies for compliance with new, monitoring. This provides us with the assurance that controls over
revised or existing accounting and regulatory requirements. The key financial reporting and disclosure processes have operated
Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory effectively.
requirements concerning our financial statements and disclosure of
We keep up to date with the latest developments in financial
material information including any transactions relating to business
reporting requirements by working with our external auditors and
restructuring such as acquisitions and divestitures. However, should
legal advisors.
we be subject to an investigation into potential non-compliance with
accounting and disclosure requirements, this may lead to There is shared accountability for financial results across our
restatements of previously reported results and significant penalties. businesses. Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional
management and then reviewed with the Financial Controller and the
Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign
Chief Financial Officer (CFO). This allows our Financial Controller
exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis.
and our CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and
These transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk.
to evaluate performance to plan. Significant judgements are reviewed
The Group’s effective tax rate reflects rates of tax in the jurisdictions
and confirmed by senior management. Business reorganisations and
in which the Group operates that are both higher and lower than the
newly acquired activities are integrated into risk assessments and
UK rate and takes into account regimes that encourage innovation
appropriate controls and reviews are applied. Counterparty exposure
and investment in science by providing tax incentives which, if
is subject to defined limits approved by the Board for both credit
changed, could affect the Group’s tax rate. In addition, the worldwide
rating and individual counterparties.
nature of our operations and cross-border supply routes can result
in conflicting claims from tax authorities as to the profits to be taxed In 2016, we created a Finance Risk and Controls Centre of
in individual countries. The tax charge included in our financial Excellence to maintain the Finance control framework. We added
statements is our best estimate of the Group’s tax liability pending resources to ensure processes and controls were maintained during
audits by tax authorities. business transformation, the upgrade of our financial systems and
processes and the ongoing integration of the former Novartis’
businesses into our control and reporting framework. Additional risk
mitigation was introduced by amending the programme timelines of
system upgrades.257 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Financial controls and reporting continued
The Group maintains a Disclosure Committee reporting to the Each business unit leadership team retains ultimate accountability
Board, which reviews the Group’s quarterly results and Annual for managing third party interactions and risks. When working
Report and Form 20-F and determines throughout the year, in with third parties, all employees are expected to manage external
consultation with its legal advisors, whether it is necessary to interactions and commitments responsibly. This expectation is
disclose publicly information about the Group through Stock embedded in our values and Code of Conduct. It is our responsibility
Exchange announcements. The Treasury Management Group that all activities are performed safely and in compliance with
meets on a regular basis to seek to ensure that liquidity, interest applicable laws and our values, standards and Code of Conduct.
rate, counterparty, foreign currency transaction and foreign
To seek to guide and enforce our global principles for interactions
currency translation risks are all managed in line with the
with third parties, we have in place a policy framework applicable to
conservative approach as detailed in the associated risk
buying goods and services, managing our external spend, paying and
strategies and policies which have been adopted by the Board.
working with our third parties. This policy framework applies to all
Oversight of Treasury’s role in managing counterparty risk in line employees and complementary workers worldwide. The framework is
with agreed policy is performed by a Corporate Compliance Officer, complemented by technical and local standards designed to seek to
who operates independently of Treasury. Further details on mitigation ensure alignment with the nature of third party interactions, such as
of Treasury Risks can be found on pages 212 to 213 in Note 42, good manufacturing practice and adherence to local laws and
‘Financial instruments and related disclosures’. Tax risk is managed regulations. Independent business monitoring of key financial and
by a set of policies and procedures to seek to ensure consistency operational controls is in place and is supplemented by periodic
and compliance with tax legislation. We seek to maintain open, checks from the company’s independent Audit & Assurance function.
positive relationships with governments and tax authorities
Continuous monitoring and performance of third parties is enhanced
worldwide. We monitor government debate on tax policy in our key
through the Third Party Oversight programme managed through the
jurisdictions to deal proactively with any potential future changes in
Global Ethics and Compliance organisation. The global programme,
tax law. We engage advisors and legal counsel to review tax
which completed deployment across LATAM and South East Asia
legislation and the implications for our business. Where relevant we
countries in 2016, takes an enterprise wide view of third party related
are active in providing relevant business input to tax policy makers.
risks. The programme is strengthening risk assessment and due
Significant decisions are considered and agreed by the Tax
diligence efforts on third parties and improving the overall
Governance Board, which meets quarterly and is made up of senior
management of our third party risks through the lifecycle of the
personnel from across the Finance group.
third party engagement.
A centralised team of dedicated specialists are responsible for
managing transactional tax reporting and compliance. We submit
tax returns according to statutory time limits and engage with tax
authorities to seek to ensure our tax affairs are current, entering into
arrangements such as Continuous Audit Programmes and Advance
Pricing Agreements to provide long-term certainty over tax treatment
where appropriate. In exceptional cases where matters cannot be
settled by agreement with tax authorities, we may have to resolve
disputes through formal appeals or other proceedings.258 GSK Annual Report 2016
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure of GSK employees, consultants and third parties to comply Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment to
with our Anti-bribery and corruption (ABAC) principles and zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk. In light of the
standards, as well as with all applicable legislation. complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we constantly evolve
our oversight of activities and data, reinforce to our employees and
Risk impact
contractors clear expectations regarding acceptable behaviours, and
Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated
maintain on-going communications between the Group headquarters
persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil
and local markets.
and criminal liability.
The Group has an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to
In addition to legal penalties, a failure to prevent bribery through
ensure compliance with the Group’s ABAC policies and prevent the
complying with ABAC legislation and regulations could have
risk of bribery and corruption. It builds on our values and business
substantial implications for the reputation of the company, the
standards to form a comprehensive and practical approach to
credibility of senior leaders, and an erosion of investor confidence
compliance, and is flexible to the evolving nature of our business.
in our governance and risk management.
Our ABAC programme is built on best in class principles and a range
Context
of features which collectively enable us to manage the risk from top
We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global
down and bottom up. For example, the programme comprises
business operations. In some markets, the government structure
top-level commitment from the Group Board of Directors and
and the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on our
leadership; a global risk assessment to enable targeted intervention
bribery and corruption risk exposure. In addition to the global nature
and compliance monitoring activities. The programme is underpinned
of our business, the healthcare sector is highly competitive and
by a global ABAC policy and written standards that address
subject to regulation. This increases the instances where we are
commercial and other practices that give rise to ABAC risk and
exposed to activities and interactions with bribery and corruption risk.
ongoing training and communications. In addition, the programme
The Group has been subject to a number of ABAC inquiries. We mandates enhanced controls over interactions with government
have reached a resolution with US authorities in 2016 regarding their officials and during business development transactions. All
ABAC inquiry, whilst the inquiry of the UK authorities is ongoing. employees are required to complete comprehensive ABAC training
These investigations are discussed further in Note 46 ‘Legal dependent on role requirements.
proceedings’.
Programme governance is provided by the Group’s ABAC
Governance Board which includes representation from key functional
areas and business units. We have a dedicated ABAC team
responsible for the implementation and evolution of the programme
in response to developments in the internal and external environment.
This is complemented with independent oversight and assurance
undertaken by the Audit and Assurance and Independent Business
Monitoring teams.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other
large multinational companies and use external expertise to drive
improvements in the programme.259 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Commercialisation
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to execute business strategies, or effectively manage Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure the Group achieves
competitive opportunities and threats in accordance with the letter its mission of helping people do more, feel better and live longer.
and spirit of legal, industry, or the Group’s requirements. The Group continues to strive for new product launches that are
competitive and resourced effectively, as well as a healthy proportion
Risk impact
of its sales ratio attributable to new product or innovation sales.
Failure to manage risks related to commercialisation could materially
This innovation helps the Group defray the effect, for example, of
and adversely affect our ability to grow a diversified global business
downward price pressure in major markets, declining emerging
and deliver more products of value for patients and consumers.
market growth and negative foreign exchange impact.
Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may
result in governmental investigation, regulatory action and legal Establishing new products that are priced to balance expectations
proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and private of patients and consumers, HCPs, payers, shareholders, and the
plaintiffs. Failure to provide accurate and complete information community enables the Group to maintain a strong global business
related to our products may result in incomplete awareness of the and remain relevant to the needs of patients and consumers. Our
risk/benefit profile of our products and possibly suboptimal treatment values provide a guide for how we lead and make decisions. We
of patients and consumers. Any of these consequences could constantly strive to do the right thing and deliver quality products,
materially and adversely affect the Group. seeking to ensure our behaviours reflect our values and the mission
of our company.
Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values could
also result in reputational damage and dilute trust established with We have taken action at all levels of the Group to enhance and
external stakeholders. improve standards and procedures for promotional interactions,
based on our values of transparency, respect, integrity and patient
Context
focus. We have policies and standards governing promotional
We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly
activities undertaken by the Group or on its behalf. All of these
competitive and highly regulated. Our competitors may make
activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high ethical,
significant product innovations and technical advances and may
regulatory, and industry standards. Where local standards differ
intensify price competition. In light of this competitive environment,
from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
continued development of commercially viable new products and the
development of additional uses for existing products are critical to The Group has harmonised policies and procedures to guide
achieve our strategic objectives. As do other pharmaceutical, vaccine above country commercial practices processes as well as clarified
and consumer companies, the Group faces downward price applicable standards when engaging in the markets. Each business
pressure in major markets, declining emerging market growth, and unit within the Group has adopted GSK’s Internal Control Framework
negative foreign exchange impact. to support the assessment and management of its risks. Commercial
practices activities have appropriate monitoring programmes and
Developing new Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare
oversight from both business unit Risk Management and Compliance
products is a costly, lengthy and an uncertain process. A product
Boards and Country Executive Boards that manage risks across
candidate may fail at any stage, including after significant Group
in-country business activities.
economic and human resources have been invested. Our
competitors’ products or pricing strategies or any failure on our All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and
part to develop commercially successful products, or to develop approved according to the Group’s policies and standards, and
additional uses for existing products, could materially and adversely conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations, to seek
affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives. to ensure that these materials and activities fairly represent the
products or services of the Group. When necessary, we have
We are committed to the ethical and responsible commercialisation
disciplined (up to and including termination) employees who have
of our products to support our mission to improve the quality of
engaged in misconduct and have broadened our ability to claw back
human life by enabling people to do more, feel better, and live longer.
remuneration from senior management in the event of misconduct.
To accomplish this mission, we engage the healthcare community in
various ways to provide important information about our medicines. The Group continues to evolve its commercial operating model,
embedding industry leading changes in the compensation model
Promotion of approved products seeks to ensure that healthcare
for sales professionals and their managers who interact with HCPs.
professionals (HCPs) globally have access to information they need,
These changes eliminated rewards based on sales or market share
that patients and consumers have access to the information and
of prescription products in individuals’ territories in favour of rewards
products they need and that products are prescribed, recommended
based on the quality of the individuals’ interactions with HCPs.
or used in a manner that provides the maximum healthcare benefit to
Furthermore, from the beginning of 2016, GSK stopped paying
patients and consumers. We are committed to communicating
HCPs to deliver promotional presentations for GSK to other HCPs
information related to our approved products in a responsible, legal,
or sponsor their travel to medical educational conferences.
and ethical manner.
While business units within the Group are confronted by common
types of commercialisation risks, differences do exist in the types of
risks that present themselves, the degree of risk presented in that
business unit and, consequently, how those risks are managed. This
reflects the different nature and profile of the business units across
the Group.260 GSK Annual Report 2016
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Research practices
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound preclinical and We established an Office of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy
clinical research. In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities (OAWES), led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy,
that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or to seek to ensure the humane and responsible care of animals and
the Group’s requirements. increase the knowledge and application of non-animal alternatives
for the Group. OAWES embeds a framework of animal welfare
Risk impact
governance, promotes application of 3Rs (replacement, refinement
The impacts of the risk include harm to human subjects, reputational
and reduction of animals in research), explores opportunities for
damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our
cross-industry data sharing, and conducts quality assessments.
products, governmental investigation, legal proceedings brought
against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs (product We make information available on our studies, including summaries
liability suits and claims for damages), and regulatory action such of the results – whether positive or negative. GSK was the first
as fines, penalties, or loss of product authorisation. Any of these company to publish clinical study reports that form the basis of
consequences could materially and adversely affect our financial submissions to regulatory agencies and we have publically posted
results. more than 1,830 clinical study reports in addition to more than
6,000 study result summaries. Detailed patient-level data from
Context
approximately 2,000 clinical studies can be requested and
Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns. While we
accessed through clinicalstudydatarequest.com.
attempt to address this proactively, animal studies remain a vital part
of our research. In many cases, they are the only method that can be We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management (HBSM)
used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful
body before it is tested in humans, and they are generally mandated acquisition and management of human biological samples. Our
by regulators and ethically imperative. Animal research can provide global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and provides
critical information about the causes of diseases and how they an experienced group to support internal sample custodians on
develop. Nonetheless, we are continually seeking ways in which we best practice. It remains an important priority to enhance our
can minimise our use of animals in research, whilst complying with data integrity controls. A Data Integrity Committee was in place
regulatory requirements. throughout the year to provide oversight and a Data Integrity Quality
Assurance team began conducting assessments intended to
Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess
provide independent business monitoring of our internal controls
and demonstrate an investigational product’s efficacy and safety
for R&D activities
or further evaluate the product once it has been approved for
marketing. We also work with human biological samples. These The Chief Regulatory Officer oversees the activities of the
samples are fundamental to the discovery, development and safety Regulatory Governance Board which includes promoting
monitoring of our products. The integrity of our data is essential compliance with regulatory requirements and Group-wide
to success in all stages of the research data lifecycle: design, standards, making regulatory services more efficient and agile, and
generation, recording and management, analysis, reporting and further aligning regulatory capabilities with our international business
storage and retrieval. Our research data is governed by legislation needs at the enterprise and local levels. The Group strictly prohibits
and regulatory requirements. Research data and supporting promotional practices prior to marketing authorisation, and care is
documents are core components at various stages of pipeline taken to seek to ensure that SE activity is not promotional.
progression decision-making and also form the content of
Specific accountability and authorisation for SE resides within the
regulatory submissions. Poor data integrity can compromise
Medical Governance framework that is overseen by the Global
our research efforts.
Medical Topic Board (GMTB), accountable to the Chief Medical
There are innate complexities and interdependencies required Officer. GMTB is responsible for oversight of applicable policies
for regulatory filings, particularly given our global research and and seeking to ensure the highest level of integrity and continuous
development footprint. Rapid changes in submission requirements development of SE at GSK. This framework seeks to ensure the
in developing countries continue to increase the complexity of right level of accountability and clear programme guidance at
worldwide product registration. Scientific engagement (SE), defined above country across R&D business units and in Local Operating
as the interaction and exchange of information between GSK and Companies.
external communities in order to advance scientific and medical
The Research Practices risk is now aligned with a new Enterprise
understanding, including the appropriate development and use
framework that seeks to ensure strengthened governance across
of our products, is an essential part of scientific discourse. Such
the R&D businesses in Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer
non-promotional engagement with external stakeholder groups
Healthcare. Under the leadership of the Chief Research Practices
is vital to GSK’s mission and necessary for scientific and medical
Officer, management of the risk will take a practical approach to
advance. The scope of SE activities includes: advisory boards;
information sharing, streamlining risk identification and escalation
scientific consultancies; pre-planned informal discussions with
while ensuring ownership stays at the business unit level and allows
healthcare professionals (HCP); sharing medical information;
for a proportional risk treatment plan.
publications (including abstracts to congresses); scientific
interactions with payers, patients, governments and the media;
and support for independent medical education. SE activities are
essential but present legal, regulatory, and reputational risk if the
sharing of data, invited media coverage or payments for service
providers has, or is perceived to have, promotional intent. The risks
are particularly high where HCP engagement and associated
financial and/or transfer of value disclosures are required by GSK.261 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Environment, health and safety and sustainability
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to manage environment, health and safety and substainability The Corporate Executive Team (CET) is responsible for EHS&S
(EHS&S) risks in line with our objectives and policies and with governance for the Group under a global policy. Under that policy,
relevant laws and regulations. the CET seeks to ensure there is a control framework in place to
manage the risks, impacts and legal compliance issues that relate
Risk impact
to EHS&S and for assigning responsibility to senior managers for
Failure to manage EHS&S risks could lead to significant harm to
providing and maintaining those controls. Individual managers seek
people, the environment and communities in which we operate, fines,
to ensure that the EHS&S control framework is effective and well
failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements,
implemented in their respective business area and that it is fully
litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the Group’s reputation
compliant with all applicable laws and regulations, adequately
and could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
resourced, maintained, communicated, and monitored. Additionally,
Context each employee is personally responsible for ensuring that all
The Group is subject to health, safety and environmental laws of applicable local standard operating procedures are followed by
various jurisdictions. These laws impose duties to protect people, them and expected to take responsibility for EHS&S matters.
the environment, and the communities in which we operate, as well
Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our refreshed
as potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites. We have
Global EHS&S standard which supports our EHS&S policy and
also been identified as a potentially responsible party under the
our objective to discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our
US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and
products without harming people or the environment. In addition to
Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to
the design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment, we
our use or ownership of such sites in the US. Failure to manage
operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards where
these environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory
practicable and protect employees’ health and well-being. Through
action and additional remedial costs that may materially and
our continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability we
adversely affect our financial results. See Note 46 to the financial
have reduced our value chain carbon intensity per pack, water
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of the
consumption and waste generation. We actively manage our
environmental related proceedings in which we are involved.
environmental remediation obligations and seek to ensure practices
We routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for
are environmentally sustainable and compliant. Our EHS&S
such matters.
performance results are shared externally each year in our
Responsible Business Supplement.
Information protection
Risk definition Mitigating activities
The risk to GSK business activities if information becomes disclosed The Group has a global information protection policy that is
to those not authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be supported through a dedicated programme of activity. To increase
available or are corrupted. our focus on information security, the Group established the
Information Protection & Privacy function to provide strategy,
Risk impact
direction, and oversight while enhancing our global information
Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and
security capabilities.
information may result in loss of commercial or strategic advantage,
damage to our reputation, litigation, or other business disruption We assess changes in our information protection risk environment
including regulatory sanction, which could materially and adversely through briefings by government agencies, subscription to
affect our financial results. commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing
with other pharmaceutical and cross-industry companies.
Context
We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as corporate We aim to use industry best practices as part of our information
strategic plans, sensitive personally identifiable information (PII), security policies, processes and technologies and invest in strategies
intellectual property, manufacturing systems and trade secrets. that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security
There is the potential that our computer systems or information may threat landscape. A Privacy Centre of Excellence has been
be exposed to misuse or unauthorised disclosure. We are also established to ensure compliance prior to the deadline with the
subject to various laws that govern the processing of PlI. new General Data Protection Requirements (GDPRs). All employees
are required to complete training on the appropriate handling and
maintaining of PII.
The Group’s Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) have been approved
by the UK Information Commissioner’s Office for human resource
and research activities data. BCRs have been recognised by 29
European states and Switzerland allowing us to transfer PII
internationally between the Group’s entities without individual privacy
agreements in each European Union country. The approval in the
remaining two countries, Greece and Romania is expected in 2017.262 GSK Annual Report 2016
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Supply continuity and crisis management
Risk definition Mitigating activities
Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant finished product; Our supply chain model is designed to ensure the supply, quality
inability to respond effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner and security of our products globally, as far as possible. We closely
to recover and sustain critical operations, including key supply monitor, through the Supply Chain Governance Committees, the
chains. This risk was previously called Crisis and continuity inventory status and delivery of our products with the aim to ensure
management. that customers have the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer
Healthcare products they need.
Risk impact
We recognise that failure to supply our products can adversely Improved links between commercial forecasting and manufacturing
impact consumers and patients who rely on them. A material made possible by our core commercial cycle should, over time,
interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes reduce the risk associated with demand fluctuations and any impact
could expose us to litigation or regulatory action and financial on our ability to supply or the cost of write-offs where products
penalties that could adversely affect the Group’s financial results. exceed their expiry date. Each node of the supply chain is periodically
reviewed to ensure adequate safety stock, while balancing working
The Group’s international operations, and those of its partners,
capital in our end-to-end supply chain. Safety stocks and backup
expose our workforce, facilities, operations and information
supply arrangements for medically critical and high-revenue products
technology to potential disruption from natural events (e.g. storm or
are in place to help mitigate this risk. In addition, we routinely monitor
earthquake), man-made events (e.g. civil unrest, terrorism), and global
the compliance of manufacturing external suppliers in order to
emergencies (e.g. Ebola outbreak, Flu pandemic). It is important that
identify and manage risks in our supply base. Where practical, we
GSK has robust crisis management and recovery plans in place to
minimise our dependence on single sources of supply for critical
manage such events.
items. Where alternative sourcing arrangements are not possible, our
Context inventory strategy aims to protect the supply chain from unanticipated
Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by disruption.
various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to
We continue to implement anti-counterfeit systems such as product
operate. Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or
serialisation in accordance with emerging supply chain requirements
by suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or
around the world. A corporate policy requires each business unit
regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption
and functional area head to ensure effective crisis management
of supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension
and business continuity plans are in place that include authorised
of manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing
response and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and
or logistics issues.
clear communication routes, before any business disruption occurs.
We rely on materials and services provided by third party suppliers
Corporate Security supports the business by: coordinating crisis
to make our products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients
management and business continuity training; facilitating simulation
(API), antigens, intermediates, commodities, and components for
exercises; assessing Group preparedness and recovery capability;
the manufacture and packaging of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and
and providing assurance oversight of the Group’s central repository
Consumer Healthcare products. Some of the third party services
of plans supporting our critical business processes. Each business
procured, such as services provided by contract manufacturing
unit has a governance board which performs risk oversight and
and clinical research organisations to support development of key
monitoring including identifying new and emerging threats. The
products, are important to ensure continuous operation of our
Group has a coordinated approach to evaluate and manage the
businesses.
implications for our business regarding the UK’s exit from the
Although we undertake business continuity planning, single sourcing European Union.
of certain components, bulk API, finished products, and services
These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and
creates a supply risk in the event of regulatory non-compliance or
response capability is maintained. We also develop and maintain
physical disruption at the manufacturing sites or logistics system.
partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity
If any of the small number of single-source, third party suppliers and
Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk
service providers we use fail to fulfil their contractual obligations in a
Reduction, which helps improve our business continuity initiatives
timely manner or experience regulatory non-compliance or physical
in disaster-prone areas and supports the development of community
disruption of their logistics and manufacturing sites, this could also
resilience to disasters.
result in delays or service interruptions.
We use effective crisis management and business continuity
planning to provide for the health and safety of our people and to
minimise impact to the Group, by maintaining functional operations
following a natural or man-made disaster, or a public health
emergency.263 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Shareholder information
Investor information
Share capital and control
Details of our issued share capital and the number of shares Share buy-back programme
held in Treasury as at 31 December 2016 can be found in The Board has been authorised to issue and allot Ordinary Shares
Note 33 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and share under Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association. The power
premium account’. under Article 9 and the authority for the company to make purchases
of its own shares are subject to shareholder authorities which are
Our Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange
sought on an annual basis at our Annual General Meeting (AGM).
and are also quoted on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
Any shares purchased by the company may be cancelled or held as
in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS
Treasury shares or used for satisfying share options and grants under
represents two Ordinary Shares. For details of listed debt and
Group employee share plans.
where it is listed refer to Note 31 to the financial statements, ‘Net
debt’. Our programme covers purchases of shares for cancellation or
to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority
Holders of Ordinary Shares and ADS are entitled to receive
renewed by shareholders at the AGM in May 2016, when the
dividends (when declared), the company’s Annual Report, to attend
company was authorised to purchase a maximum of just over
and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies
487 million shares. Details of shares purchased, those cancelled,
and to exercise voting rights.
those held as Treasury shares and those subsequently transferred
There are no restrictions on the transfer, or limitations on the holding, from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Group’s share plans are
of Ordinary Shares and ADS and no requirements to obtain approval disclosed in Note 33 to the financial statements, ‘Share capital and
prior to any transfers. No Ordinary Shares or ADS carry any special share premium account’.
rights with regard to control of the company and there are no
In determining specific share repurchase levels, the company
restrictions on voting rights. Major shareholders have the same voting
considers the development of free cash flow during the year. Given
rights per share as all other shareholders. There are no known
the impact of the sustained strength of Sterling on free cash flow,
arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other
the company suspended its share repurchase programme during
than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on
2014 and no shares were purchased during the financial years
restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
ended 2015 or 2016.
Shares acquired through our share schemes and plans rank equally
The company confirms that it does not currently intend to make
with the other shares in issue and have no special rights. The
any further market purchases in 2017. The company will review
trustees of our Employee Share Ownership Plan trusts have waived
the potential for future share buy-backs during 2018 in line with
their rights to dividends on shares held by those trusts.
its usual annual cycle and subject to return and ratings criteria.
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders
Market capitalisation
Other than certain economic sanctions, which may be in force
The market capitalisation, based on shares in issue excluding
from time to time, there are currently no applicable laws, decrees
Treasury shares, of GSK at 31 December 2016 was £76.69 billion.
or regulations in force in the UK restricting the import or export of
At that date, GSK was the fifth largest company by market
capital or affecting the remittance of dividends or other payments to
capitalisation in the FTSE index.
holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK.
Similarly, other than certain economic sanctions which may be in Share price
2016 2015 2014
force from time to time, there are no limitations relating only to £ £ £
non-residents of the UK under English law or the company’s Articles At 1 January 13.73 13.76 16.12
of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote in respect of,
At 31 December 15.62 13.73 13.76
the company’s shares.
Increase/(decrease) 13.8% (0.2)% (14.6)%
Interests in voting rights High during the year 17.22 16.42 16.91
Other than as stated below, as far as we are aware, there are no Low during the year 13.44 12.38 13.24
persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the company.
Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial The table above sets out the middle market closing prices. The
Conduct Authority’s (FCA) Disclosure and Transparency Rules company’s share price increased by 13.8% in 2016. This compares
(DTRs) is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 14.4% during the year.
the company’s website, www.gsk.com. The share price on 3 March 2017 was £16.88.
At 3 March 2017, the company had received notifications in
accordance with the FCA’s DTRs of the following notifiable interests
UK£ US$
in the voting rights in the company’s issued share capital:
18 75
*Percentage of 17 70
No. of issued
shares capital (%) 16 65
BlackRock, Inc. 327,305,939 6.66 15 60
* P ercentage of Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding Treasury shares. 14 55
13 50
We have not acquired or disposed of any interests in our own
12 45
shares during the period under review, with the exception of those
11 40
transferred from Treasury to satisfy awards under the Group’s
10 35
share plans.
09 30
31/12/13 31/12/14 31/12/15 31/12/16
UK share price (UK£) US ADS price (US$)264 GSK Annual Report 2016
Shareholder information continued
Share capital and control continued
Nature of trading market
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low closing prices in US dollars for the ADS on the NYSE.
Ordinary Shares ADS
Pence per share US dollars per share
High Low High Low
March 2017* 1688 1667 41.99 41.38
February 2017 1654 1535 41.63 39.30
January 2017 1596 1520 39.73 38.72
December 2016 1563 1459 38.54 37.39
November 2016 1607 1496 40.40 37.79
October 2016 1723 1619 43.44 40.01
September 2016 1655 1592 44.26 42.50
Quarter ended 31 December 2016 1723 1459 43.44 37.39
Quarter ended 30 September 2016 1712 1592 45.49 42.50
Quarter ended 30 June 2016 1605 1388 43.47 40.04
Quarter ended 31 March 2016 1439 1345 42.05 38.54
Quarter ended 31 December 2015 1421 1268 43.53 38.74
Quarter ended 30 September 2015 1458 1238 45.14 37.56
Quarter ended 30 June 2015 1642 1323 48.23 41.65
Quarter ended 31 March 2015 1635 1357 48.81 41.68
Year ended 31 December 2016 1723 1345 45.49 37.39
Year ended 31 December 2015 1642 1238 48.81 37.56
Year ended 31 December 2014 1691 1324 56.66 41.30
Year ended 31 December 2013 1782 1359 53.68 43.93
Year ended 31 December 2012 1508 1318 47.45 41.90
* t o 3 March 2017
Analysis of shareholdings at 31 December 2016
Number of % of total % of total Number of
accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 84,752 71.53 0.56 29,909,424
1,001 to 5,000 26,603 22.46 1.07 57,343,549
5,001 to 100,000 6,026 5.09 1.63 87,628,148
100,001 to 1,000,000 737 0.62 4.81 258,261,583
Over 1,000,000 360 0.30 91.93 4,935,173,358
118,478 100.00 100.00 5,368,316,062
Held by
Nominee companies 5,699 4.81 63.52 3,410,289,986
Investment and trust companies 23 0.02 0.22 11,672,809
Insurance companies 4 0.00 0.00 1,860
Individuals and other corporate bodies 112,750 95.17 12.04 646,321,560
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 0.00 15.68 841,823,897
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 0.00 8.54 458,205,950
BNY Mellon is the Depositary for the company’s ADS, which are listed on the NYSE. Ordinary Shares representing the company’s ADR
programme, which is managed by the Depositary, are registered in the name of BNY (Nominees) Limited. At 3 March 2017, BNY (Nominees)
Limited held 848,389,001 Ordinary Shares representing 17.25% of the issued share capital (excluding Treasury shares) at that date.
At 3 March 2017, the number of holders of Ordinary Shares in the US was 1,022 with holdings of 1,091,064 Ordinary Shares, and the
number of registered holders of ADS was 22,622 with holdings of 424,194,500 ADS. Certain of these Ordinary Shares and ADS were held
by brokers or other nominees. As a result, the number of holders of record or registered holders in the US is not representative of the number
of beneficial holders or of the residence of beneficial holders.265 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Dividends
The company pays dividends quarterly and continues to return cash Dividend calendar
to shareholders through its dividend policy. Dividends remain an ADS ex-dividend Ex-dividend
essential component of total shareholder return and the company Quarter date date Record date Payment date
is committed to increasing its dividend over the long-term. Details Q4 2016 22 February 2017 23 February 2017 24 February 2017 13 April 2017
of the dividends declared, the amounts and the payment dates are Q1 2017 10 May 2017 11 May 2017 12 May 2017 13 July 2017
given in Note 16 to the financial statements, ‘Dividends’.
Q2 2017 9 August 2017 10 August 2017 11 August 2017 12 October 2017
Dividends per share Q3 2017 8 November 2017 9 November 201710 November 2017 11 January 2018
The table below sets out the dividend per share and per ADS for the
last five years. The dividend per ADS is translated into US dollars at
applicable exchange rates.
Year Dividend pence US$
2016 80 –1
2015 Special* 20 0.57
2015 80 2.37
2014 80 2.59
2013 78 2.47
2012 74 2.35
1 The Q4 2016 interim ordinary dividend and special dividend receivable by ADR
holders will be calculated based on the exchange rate on 11 April 2017. An annual fee
of $0.02 per ADS (or $0.005 per ADS per quarter) will be charged by the Depository.
The cumulative dividend receivable by ADR holders for Q1, Q2 and Q3 2016 was
1.43 US$.
* T he 2015 special dividend related to the return of part of the net cash proceeds from
the Novartis transaction completed in March 2015. This was paid with the fourth quarter
ordinary dividend for 2015.
Financial calendar
Results announcements
Event Date
Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
Quarter 1 results’ announcement April/May 2017
and are available on its news service. They are also sent to the
Annual General Meeting May 2017
US Securities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE, issued
Quarter 2 results’ announcement July 2017
to the media and made available on our website.
Quarter 3 results’ announcement October 2017
Financial reports
Preliminary/Quarter 4 results’ announcement February 2018
The company publishes an Annual Report which is made available
Annual Report publication February/March 2018
on our website from the date of publication. Shareholders may
Annual Report distribution March 2018 elect to receive the Annual Report by contacting the registrar.
Information about the company, including the share price, is available Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive notification by
on our website at www.gsk.com. Information made available on the email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
website does not constitute part of this Annual Report. www.shareview.co.uk.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on our website.
Printed copies can be obtained from our registrar in the UK (see
page 268 for the contact details).266 GSK Annual Report 2016
Shareholder information continued
Annual General Meeting 2017
2.30pm (UK time) on Thursday 4 May 2017 ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy from
The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, BNY Mellon, as Depositary, by notifying them of their request to do
London SW1P 3EE. so. This will enable them to attend and vote on the business to be
transacted. ADR holders may instruct BNY Mellon as to the way in
The AGM is the company’s principal forum for communication
which the shares represented by their ADR should be voted by
with private shareholders. In addition to the formal business,
completing and returning the voting card provided by the Depositary.
there will be a presentation by the CEO on the performance of
the Group and its future development. There will be an opportunity Documents on display
for questions to be asked to the Board. Chairmen of the Board’s The Articles of Association of the company and Directors’ service
Committees will take questions relating to those Committees. contracts or, where applicable, letters of appointment between
Directors and the company or any of its subsidiaries (and any side
Investors holding shares through a nominee service should arrange
letters relating to severance terms and pension arrangements) are
with that nominee service to be appointed as a proxy in respect of
available for inspection at the company’s registered office and will
their shareholding in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
be made available for inspection at the AGM.
Tax information for shareholders
A summary of certain UK tax and US federal income tax For UK tax years from 2016/17 onwards, dividend tax credits will no
consequences for holders of shares and ADR who are citizens of the longer apply and UK resident individuals will be entitled instead to a
UK or the US is set out below. It is not a complete analysis of all the dividend tax allowance of up to £5,000, so that the first £5,000 of
possible tax consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of dividends received in a tax year will be free of tax (proposals were
these securities. It is intended only as a general guide. Holders are announced on 8 March 2017 to reduce this allowance to £2,000
advised to consult their advisers with respect to the tax from the 2018/19 tax year onwards). Dividends in excess of this
consequences of the purchase, ownership or sale of their shares or allowance will be taxed at 7.5% for basic rate taxpayers, 32.5% for
ADR and the consequences under state and local tax laws in the higher rate taxpayers and 38.1% for additional rate taxpayers.
US and the implications of the current UK/US tax conventions.
UK resident shareholders that are corporation taxpayers should note
US holders of ADR generally will be treated as the owners of the that dividends payable on ordinary shares are generally entitled to
underlying shares for the purposes of the current US/UK double exemption from corporation tax.
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
Taxation of capital gains
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention),
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal
and for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
of shares or ADR. Different rates apply to the taxation of capital gains
(the Code).
across the 2015/16 and 2016/17 tax years.
UK shareholders
For disposals by individuals during the 2015/16 UK tax year and
This summary only applies to a UK resident shareholder that holds
subject to the availability of any exemption or relief such as the annual
shares as capital assets.
exempt amount, a taxable capital gain accruing on a disposal of
Taxation of dividends shares or ADR will be taxed at 28% if, after all allowable deductions,
Different regimes apply to the taxation of dividend income payable such shareholders’ taxable income for the tax year exceeds the basic
to UK resident individuals in UK tax years up to 5 April 2016 and to rate income tax limit. In other cases, a taxable capital gain accruing
those tax years commencing on or after 6 April 2016. on a disposal of shares or ADR may be taxed at 18% or 28% or at a
combination of both rates. From 6 April 2016, these rates reduced
For UK tax years up to and including 2015/16, UK resident
to 20% and 10% or 20% respectively.
shareholders will generally be subject to UK income tax on the full
amount of dividends paid, grossed up for the amount of a tax credit. Corporation taxpayers may be entitled to an indexation allowance
The tax credit may be set against the individual’s income tax liability which applies to reduce capital gains to the extent that such gains
in respect of the gross dividend, but is not repayable to shareholders arise due to inflation. Indexation allowance may reduce a chargeable
with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit. To the extent gain but will not create an allowable loss.
that individuals’ income exceeds the basic rate limit, but not the
Inheritance tax
higher rate limit, an upper dividend rate applies, which is set at
Individual (UK-domiciled or otherwise) shareholders may be liable
32.5% of the grossed up dividend figure and for those whose
to UK inheritance tax on the transfer of shares or ADR. Tax may be
income exceeds the higher rate limit of £150,000, an additional
charged on the amount by which the value of the shareholder’s
dividend rate of 37.5% will normally apply.
estate is reduced as a result of any transfer by way of lifetime gift or
other disposal at less than full market value. In the case of a bequest
on death, tax may be charged on the value of the shares at the date
of the shareholder’s death. If such a gift or other disposal were
subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax, the
Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for tax paid
in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK.267 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Tax information for shareholders continued
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Dividends that are not qualified are subject to taxation at the US
UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to federal graduated tax rates, at a maximum rate of 43.4%. Some
certain exemptions, be payable on the transfer of shares at a rate of types of dividends are automatically excluded from being qualified
0.5% (rounded up to the nearest £5 in the case of stamp duty) of the dividends, even if they meet the other requirements. These include
consideration for the transfer. Notwithstanding this, provided that an (but are not limited to):
instrument is executed in pursuance of the agreement that gave rise
1. Capital gains distributions
to the charge to SDRT and that instrument is stamped within six
years of the agreement (including being stamped as exempt) any 2. Dividends on bank deposits
SDRT charge should be cancelled and any SDRT which has already 3. D ividends held by a corporation in an Employee Stock Ownership
been paid will be repaid. Plan (ESOP)
US shareholders 4. Dividends paid by tax-exempt corporations
This summary only applies to a shareholder (who is a citizen or
resident of the US or a domestic corporation or a person that is US state and local tax rates on qualified and non-qualified dividends
otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in may vary and would be assessed in addition to the federal tax rates
respect of the shares or ADR) that holds shares or ADR as capital communicated above.
assets, is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and does not
Taxation of capital gains
hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that is
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but
carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other
The summary also does not address the tax treatment of holders that disposal of shares or ADR. Such gains will be long-term capital gains
are subject to special tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, (subject to reduced rates of taxation for individual holders) if the
insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons shares or ADR were held for more than one year, from the date the
that hold shares or ADR as part of an integrated investment shares were vested/released. Short-term capital gains can be
(including a ‘straddle’) comprised of a share or ADR and one or more subject to taxation of rates of up to 43.4%, whereas long-term capital
other positions, and persons that own (directly or indirectly) 10% or gains may be subject to rates of up to 23.8%. State and local tax
more of the voting stock of the company, nor does it address tax rates on capital gains may also apply.
treatment that may be applicable as a result of international income
Information reporting and backup withholding
tax treaties.
Dividends and payments of the proceeds on a sale of shares or
Taxation of dividends ADR, paid within the US or through certain US-related financial
The gross amount of dividends received is treated as foreign source intermediaries are subject to information reporting and may be
dividend income for US tax purposes. It is not eligible for the dividend subject to backup withholding unless the US holder is a corporation
received deduction allowed to US corporations. Dividends on ADR or other exempt recipient or provides a taxpayer identification number
are payable in US dollars; dividends on shares are payable in pounds and certifies that no loss of exemption has occurred. Non-US holders
Sterling. Dividends paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income generally are not subject to information reporting or backup
in the US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate withholding, but may be required to provide a certification of their
on the day the dividends are received by the holder. Subject to non-US status in connection with payments received. Any amounts
certain exceptions for short-term or hedged positions, an individual withheld will be allowed as a refund or credit against a holder’s US
eligible US holder will be subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of federal income tax liability provided the required information is
23.8% in respect of qualified dividends. A qualified dividend as furnished to the Internal Revenue Service.
defined by the US Internal Revenue Service is a dividend that meets
Estate and gift taxes
the following criteria:
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
1. M ust be issued by a US corporation, a corporation incorporated generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
in a US possession, or a corporation that is eligible for the
Stamp duty
benefits of a comprehensive income tax treaty deemed
UK stamp duty and/or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions,
satisfactory, as published by the IRS.
be payable on any transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or
2. T he dividends are not listed with the IRS as dividends that do depository at a rate of 1.5% of the amount of any consideration
not qualify. provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if transferred for
no consideration).
3. T he required dividend holding period has been met. The shares
must have been owned by you for more than 60 days of the However, no stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on the transfer
‘holding period’ – which is defined as the 121-day period that of, or agreement to transfer, an ADR.
begins 60 days before the ex-dividend date, or the day in which
the stock trades without the dividend priced in. For example, if a
stock’s ex-dividend date is October 1, the shares must be held
for more than 60 days in the period between August 2 and
November 30 of that year in order to count as a qualified dividend.268 GSK Annual Report 2016
Shareholder information continued
Shareholder services and contacts
Registrar
The company’s registrar is:
Equiniti Limited
Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0371 384 2991 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44(0)121 415 7067 (outside the UK)
Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders:
Service What it offers How to participate
Dividend Reinvestment Plan As an alternative to receiving cash dividends you may choose to A DRIP election form can be downloaded from
(DRIP) reinvest your dividends to buy more GSK shares. www.shareview.co.uk or requested by
telephoning Equiniti.
Dividend payment direct to your bank account If you currently receive your dividends by cheque through the post, A dividend bank mandate form can
(Bank Mandate) you can instead have them paid directly into your bank or building be downloaded from www.shareview.co.uk
society account. This is quicker, more secure and avoids the risk of or requested by telephoning Equiniti.
your cheque going astray.
Dividend payment direct to bank account for Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, Equiniti will For more details on this service and the costs
overseas shareholders convert your dividend into your local currency and send it direct to involved please contact Equiniti.
your local bank account. This service is available in over 100 countries
worldwide.
Electronic communications Shareholders may elect to receive electronic notifications of company You can register at www.shareview.co.uk
communications including our Annual Report, dividend payments (if
paid by way of a Bank Mandate), access to electronic tax vouchers
and the availability of online voting for all general meetings. Each time
GSK mails out hard copy shareholder documents you will receive an
email containing a link to the document or relevant website.
Shareview portfolio service This enables you to create a free online portfolio to view your share You can register at www.shareview.co.uk
balance and movements, update your address and dividend payment
instructions and register your votes for our AGM.
Duplicate publications or mailings If you receive duplicate copies of this report or other mailings, please Please contact Equiniti.
contact Equiniti and they will arrange for your accounts to be merged
into one for your convenience and to avoid waste and unnecessary
costs.
Share dealing service† Shareholders may trade shares, either held in certificated form or held For internet transactions, please log
in our Corporate Sponsored Nominee, by internet, telephone or by a on to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing.
(please note that market trading hours
postal dealing service provided by Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
are from 8.00am to 4.30pm UK time, For telephone transactions, please
Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays call 0345 603 7037 (in the UK) or
in England and Wales)) +44 (0)121 415 7560 (outside the UK).
For postal transactions, please call
0371 384 2991* to request a
dealing form.
Corporate Sponsored Nominee Account This is a convenient way to manage your shares without requiring a An application form can be requested
share certificate. The service provides a facility for you to hold your from www.shareview.co.uk or
shares in a nominee account sponsored by the company. You will by telephoning Equiniti on
continue to receive dividend payments, annual reports and can 0371 384 2991*.
attend and vote at the company’s general meetings. Shareholders’
names do not appear on the publicly available share register and the
service is free to join.
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs)† The company has arranged for Equiniti Financial Services Limited Details are available from
to provide a GSK Corporate ISA to hold GSK Ordinary Shares. www.shareview.co.uk or can be
requested by telephoning Equiniti,
on 0345 300 0430. Lines are open 8.00am
to 4.30pm for dealing, and until 6.00pm
for enquiries Monday to Friday (excluding public
holidays in England and Wales).
* UK lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays in England and Wales).
† T he provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.269 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Shareholders services and contacts continued
ADR Depositary Contacts
Investor relations
The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New
York Mellon: Investor relations may be contacted as follows:
UK
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
980 Great West Road
PO Box 30170
Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS
College Station, TX 77842-3170
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Overnight correspondence should be sent to:
US
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
5 Crescent Drive
211 Quality Circle, Suite 210
Philadelphia PA 19112
College Station, TX 77845
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
www.mybnymdr.com Tel: +1 215 751 4611 (outside the US)
Tel: +1 877 353 1154 (US toll free)
GSK Response Center
Tel: +1 201 680 6825 (outside the US)
Tel: +1 888 825 5249 (US toll free)
email: shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
Share scam alert
The Depositary also provides Global BuyDIRECT†, a direct ADS
If you receive an unsolicited telephone call offering to sell or buy your
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
shares, please take extra care. The caller may be part of a highly
For details of how to enrol please visit www.mybnymdr.com or
organised financial scam.
call the above helpline number to obtain an enrolment pack.
If you are a UK shareholder, please contact the Financial Conduct
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
Authority for further information on this, or other similar activities,
Corporate PEPs
at www.fca.org.uk/consumers or on its consumer helpline:
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 0800 111 6768 (in the UK)*
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414 141 Tel: +44 20 7066 1000 (outside the UK)
www.share.com
* Lines are open from 8.00am to 6.00pm, UK time, Monday to Friday, except UK public
Donating shares to Save the Children holidays, and 9.00am to 1.00pm on Saturdays.
In 2013, GSK embarked on an ambitious global partnership with Responsible Business Supplement
Save the Children to share our expertise and resources with the We are publishing our Responsible Business Supplement 2016
aim of helping to save the lives of one million children. online. This will outline GSK’s approach to, and performance in, our
key responsible business areas, Health for all, Our behaviour, Our
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which
people and Our planet.
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them
to Save the Children. Donated shares will be aggregated and sold
by Save the Children who will use the funds raised to help them
reach the above goal.†
To obtain a share donation form, please contact our registrar,
Equiniti, which is managing the donation and sale of UK shares to
Save the Children free of charge.
† The provision of share dealing details is not intended to be an invitation or inducement
to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent
financial adviser.270 GSK Annual Report 2016
Other statutory disclosures
US law and regulation
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to the – they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal
company because our shares are quoted on the New York Stock control over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADSs. regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
NYSE rules
generally accepted accounting principles
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK
corporate governance practices instead of those applied in the US, – they have disclosed in the annual report on Form 20-F any
provided that we explain any significant variations. This explanation changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
is contained in our Form 20-F, which can be accessed from the period covered by the annual report on Form 20-F that have
Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) EDGAR database or materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the
via our website. NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 require us company’s internal control over financial reporting, and they have
to file annual and interim written affirmations concerning the Audit & disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal control
Risk Committee and our statement on significant differences in over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the ARC, all
corporate governance. significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
reasonably likely to affect adversely the company’s ability to record,
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the US,
process, summarise and report financial information, and any fraud
Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Sarbanes-Oxley
(regardless of materiality) involving persons that have a significant
is a wide-ranging piece of legislation concerned largely with financial
role in the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
reporting and corporate governance.
The Group has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and
As recommended by the SEC, the company has established a
with the participation of its management, including the CEO and
Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports to the CEO, the CFO
CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Group’s
and to the Audit & Risk Committee. It is chaired by the Company
disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2016.
Secretary and the members consist of senior managers from finance,
legal, corporate communications and investor relations. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system
of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
External legal counsel, the external auditors and internal experts are
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
invited to attend its meetings periodically. It has responsibility for
and procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls
considering the materiality of information and, on a timely basis,
and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving
determining the disclosure of that information. It has responsibility
their control objectives.
for the timely filing of reports with the SEC and the formal review
of the Annual Report and Form 20-F. In 2016, the Committee met The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and
18 times. report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls
and procedures in March 2017, following which the certificates
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the annual report on Form 20-F
will be filed with the SEC as part of our Group’s Form 20-F.
contain a statement as to whether a member of our Audit & Risk
Committee (ARC) is an audit committee financial expert as defined Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal control
by Sarbanes-Oxley. Such a statement for the relevant member of the over financial reporting
ARC (Judy Lewent) is included in the Audit & Risk Committee report In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
on page 97 and in her biography on page 85. Additional disclosure Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of
requirements arise under section 302 and section 404 of Sarbanes- the company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Oxley in respect of disclosure controls and procedures and internal Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the US Securities Exchange Act
control over financial reporting. of 1934, as amended (the ‘Exchange Act’):
Section 302: Corporate responsibility for financial reports – management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that: Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
– they have each reviewed the annual report on Form 20-F
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
– based on their knowledge, the annual report on Form 20-F accordance with IFRS
contains no material misstatements or omissions
– management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
– based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other internal control over financial reporting based on the framework,
financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
dates, and for the periods, presented in the annual report on Commission (COSO)
Form 20-F
– there have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
– they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure financial reporting during 2016 that have materially affected, or are
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal control
made known to them, and have evaluated the effectiveness of over financial reporting
these controls and procedures as at the year-end, the results
– management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control
of such evaluation being contained in the annual report on
over financial reporting as at 31 December 2016 and its
Form 20-F
conclusion will be filed as part of the Group’s Form 20-F, and271 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
US law and regulation continued
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the consolidated The Group has no direct knowledge of the identity of its distributors’
financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December downstream customers in Iran, and it is possible that these
2016, has also assessed the effectiveness of the Group’s internal customers include entities, such as government-owned hospitals
control over financial reporting under Auditing Standard No. 5 of and pharmacies, that are owned or controlled directly
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). or indirectly by the Iranian government or by persons or entities
Their audit report will be filed with the Group’s Form 20-F. sanctioned in connection with terrorism or proliferation activities.
Because the Group has no direct knowledge of its distributors’
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act
customers, it cannot establish the proportion of gross revenue or
Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to make specific
sales potentially attributable to entities affiliated with the Iranian
disclosure in their annual reports of certain types of dealings with
government or parties sanctioned for disclosable activities. As a
Iran, including transactions or dealings with government-owned
result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues (£2 million)
entities, as well as dealings with entities sanctioned for activities
and net profits (£1 million) from the Group’s sales to Iran in 2016.
related to terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,
even when those activities are not prohibited by US law and do not The Group is also aware that some hospitals or other medical
involve US persons. The Group does not have a legal entity based in facilities in Lebanon may be affiliated with or controlled by Hezbollah,
Iran, but it does export certain pharmaceutical and vaccine products which is designated by the United States as a terrorist organisation.
to Iran, via sales by non-US entities, to two privately held Iranian Again, the Group does not deal directly with such facilities and sells
distributors. The Group also does business, via non-US entities, in through distributors. The Group is also unable to identify with
other jurisdictions targeted by sanctions laws, including Syria, certainty the degree or nature of any affiliation of the end customers
Crimea, North Korea and Sudan. with Hezbollah, and the Group is unable to establish the proportion
of gross revenue or sales potentially attributable to reportable
We do not believe that any of the Group’s direct dealings with Iran
entities. As a result, the Group is reporting the entire gross revenues
require specific disclosure under these requirements, and the Group
(£52 million) and net profits (£27 million) from the Group’s sales to
limits sales to Iran, North Korea, Syria, Sudan and Cuba to essential
Lebanon in 2016.
medicines (determined in part using criteria set by the World Health
Organization).
Donations to political organisations and
political expenditure
With effect from 1 January 2009, to ensure a consistent approach to Notwithstanding our policy, the Companies Act 2006 requires
political contributions across the Group, we introduced a global companies to continue to obtain shareholder approval before they
policy to stop voluntarily all corporate political contributions. can make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political
expenditure. Therefore, while we do not make and do not intend to
In the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2016, the Group
make donations to any EU political parties or organisations nor do
did not make any political donations to EU or non-EU organisations.
we incur any EU political expenditure, the definitions of political
Notwithstanding the introduction of this policy, in accordance with donations, political expenditure and political organisations used in
the Federal Election Campaign Act in the US, we continue to the legislation are so wide that we annually seek shareholder
support an employee-operated Political Action Committee (PAC) authorisation for any inadvertent expenditure. In particular, the
that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible GSK definition of EU political organisations may extend to bodies such as
employees. those concerned with policy review, law reform, the representation of
The PAC is not controlled by GSK. Decisions on the amounts and the business community and special interest groups such as those
recipients of contributions are made by participating employees concerned with the environment, which the company and its
exercising their legal right to pool their resources and make political subsidiaries might wish to support. As a result, the definitions may
contributions, which are subject to strict limitations. In 2016, a total cover legitimate business activities not in the ordinary sense
of US$ 380,360 (2015 – US$446,727) was donated to political considered to be political donations or political expenditure.
organisations by the GSK employee PAC. Such activities are not designed to support any political party or
independent election candidate. The authority which the Board has
sought annually is a precautionary measure to ensure that the
company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently breach the
legislation.
This authorisation process, for expenditure of up to £100,000
each year, dates back to the AGM held in May 2001, following the
introduction of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act
2000. The authority has since been renewed annually.272 GSK Annual Report 2016
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and joint arrangements, the
address of the registered office and effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2016 are disclosed below. Unless otherwise
stated the share capital disclosed comprises ordinary shares which are indirectly held by GlaxoSmithKline plc. The percentage held by class
of share is stated where this is less than 100%. Unless otherwise stated, all subsidiary companies have their registered office in their country
of incorporation. All subsidiary companies are resident for tax purposes in their country of incorporation unless otherwise stated.
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries
1506369 Alberta ULC Common 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
Action Potential Venture Capital Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Adechsa GmbH (iv) Ordinary c/o PRV Provides Treuhandgesellschaft AG, Dorfstrasse 38,
Baar, 6341, Switzerland
Affymax Research Institute Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, CA, 95833, United States
Alenfarma – Especialidades Farmaceuticas, Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
Limitada (iv) 1495-131, Portugal
Allen & Hanburys Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Allen & Hanburys Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 24 Abimbola Way, Ilasamaja, Isolo, Lagos, Nigeria
Allen Farmaceutica, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, 28760, Spain
Allen Pharmazeutika Gesellschaft m.b.H. Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock,
Vienna, A-1120, Austria
Aners S.A (iv) Non-endorsable Nominative Tucuman 1, piso 4to. Ciudad Autonoma de, Buenos Aires,
Ordinary C1049AAA, Argentina
Barrier Therapeutics, Inc. Common Corporation Services Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Beecham Group p l c 20p Shares 'A'; 5p Shares B 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pte) Limited Ordinary 38 Quality Road, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 618809, Singapore
Beecham Pharmaceuticals S.A (iv) (vi) Nominative Av 10 De Agosto N36-239 y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
Beecham Portuguesa-Produtos Farmaceuticos e Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
Quimicos, Lda 1495-131, Portugal
Beecham S.A. (iv) Ordinary Parc de la Noire Epine, rue Fleming 20, 1300 Wavre, Belgium
Biddle Sawyer Limited Equity 252 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400 030, India
Biovesta Ilaçlari Ltd. Sti. (iv) Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok Kat:4, 1.Levent,
Istanbul, 34394, Turkey
Burroughs Wellcome & Co (Australia) Pty Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Burroughs Wellcome & Co (Bangladesh) Limited Ordinary Fouzderhat Industrial Area, Dhaka Trunk Road, North Kattali,
Chittagong - 4217, Bangladesh
Burroughs Wellcome International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Cascan GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Castleton Investment Ltd (vi) Ordinary C/o DTOS Ltd, 10th Floor, Standard Charted Tower, 19 Cybercity,
Ebene, Mauritius
Cellzome GmbH Ordinary Meyerhofstrasse 1, Heidelberg, 69117, Germany
Cellzome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Cellzome Therapeutics, Inc. (iv) Ordinary Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Cellzome, Inc. Ordinary Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Series A Preferred Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Series B Preferred
Series C-1 Convertible Preferred
Series C-3 Convertible Preferred
Charles Midgley Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
7% Cumulative Preference
Chiron Behring Vaccines Private Limited Ordinary 401-402, A, Wing, Floral Deck Plaza, Opp Rolta Bhavan,
Central MIDC Road, Mumbai, Andheri (East), India
Clarges Pharmaceuticals Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Preference (99.97)
Colleen Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Corixa Corporation Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Coulter Pharmaceutical, Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Dealcyber Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Desarrollo Energia Solar Alternativa S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, 28760, Spain
Domantis Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Duncan Flockhart Australia Pty Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia273 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Edinburgh Pharmaceutical Industries Limited Ordinary; Preference Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland
Eskaylab Limited 10p Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Etex Farmaceutica Ltda Social Capital Avenue Andres Bello 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago,
C.P. 7550611, Chile
Europharm S.A. Ordinary 5 Poienelor Street, Brasov, Romania
Fipar (Thailand) Ltd (In liquidation) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Genelabs Technologies, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N,
Sacramento, California, CA, 95833, United States
Glaxo AS (iv) Ordinary Klaus Torgårds vei 3, Oslo, NO-0372, Norway
Glaxo Group Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Kabushiki Kaisha (iv) Ordinary 4-6-15 Sendagaya, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, 151-8566, Japan
Glaxo Laboratories (Nigeria) Limited (iv) Ordinary 82 Marine Road, Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria
Glaxo Laboratories Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo New Zealand Pension Plan Trustee Limited Ordinary Level II, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Properties BV Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Verwaltungs GmbH (vi) Ordinary Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Glaxo Wellcome Farmaceutica, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Glaxo Wellcome Holdings Limited (in liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
Glaxo Wellcome International B.V. (v) Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ordinary 1 Pioneer Sector 1, Jurong Industrial Estate, Jurong, 628413, Singapore
Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ordinary 100 Route de Versailles, Marly le Roi, 78160, France
Glaxo Wellcome PST Pty Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Glaxo Wellcome Vidhyasom Limited (iv) Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
Glaxo Wellcome, S.A. Ordinary Poligono Industrial Allendeduero, Avenida de Extremadura, 3,
Aranda de Duero, Burgos, 09400, Spain
Glaxo, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, 28760, Spain
Glaxo-Allenburys (Nigeria) Limited (iv) Ordinary 41 Creek Road, Apapa, Lagos, PMB 1401, Nigeria
Glaxochem (UK) Unlimited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Ordinary B
Ordinary C
Glaxochem Pte Ltd (v) Ordinary 150 Beach Road, #21-00 Gateway West, 189720, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline – Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. Ordinary 5th Floor DKSH Building, No.797 Preah Monivong Boulevard
(Corner of Street 484), Sangkat Phsar Deum Thakov, Khan
Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh, Cambodia
GlaxoSmithKline (China) Investment Co Ltd Ordinary Room 901-910, Building A, Ocean International Center, 56 Mid 4th
East Ring Road, Bejing, Chaoyang District, China
GlaxoSmithKline (China) R&D Company Limited Equity No 3 Building, 898 Halei Road, Zhang Jiang, Hi Tech Park Pudong New
Area, Shanghai, China
GlaxoSmithKline (Cyprus) Limited Ordinary Arch. Makariou III, 2-4, Capital Center, 9th Floor, Nicosia, P.C. 1505,
Cyprus
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) S.R.L. Ordinary 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center 1, floor 5 and 6 (Zone 1),
District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline (Israel) Ltd Ordinary 25 Basel Street, PO Box 10283, Petach-Tikva, 49002, Israel
GlaxoSmithKline (Private) Limited (iv) Ordinary Unit 3, 20 Anthony Road, Msasa, Harare, Zimbabwe
GlaxoSmithKline (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 12th Floor Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan,
Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E. Ordinary 266 Kifissias Avenue, Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
GlaxoSmithKline AB Ordinary Hemvarnsg. 9, Solna, 171 54, Sweden
GlaxoSmithKline AG Ordinary Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
GlaxoSmithKline Angola Unipessoal Limitada Quotas Estrada de Cacuaco 288, Bairro Petrangol, Luanda, Angola
GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ordinary Tucumán 1, piso 4to Ciudad Autonoma de, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA,
Argentina
GlaxoSmithKline AS Ordinary Klaus Torgårds vei 3, Oslo, NO-0372, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Asia Pvt. Limited Equity Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India274 GSK Annual Report 2016
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Australia Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Beteiligungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai) Ltd. Ordinary No. 277 Niudun Road, Zhangjiang Hi-Teck Park, Shanghai, China
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Kft. Ordinary 2100 Gödöllõ, Homoki Nagy István utca 1, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A.S. Ordinary 637 Rue des Aulnois, Saint-Amand Les Eaux, 59230, France
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals SA Ordinary; Preference Rue de l'Institut 89, B-1330 Rixensart, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Limitada Quotas Estrada dos Banderiantes, 8464, Camorim, Jacarepagua, Rio de Janeiro,
22783-110, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Business Services S.A. Ordinary 300 metros al este de la Rotonda de la Betania, Mercedes de Montes
(dissolved 20 January 2017) de Oca, Sabanilla, Montes de Oca, San Jose, Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Ordinary Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street,
Suite 1300, Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Caribbean Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Chile Farmaceutica Limitada Social Capital Avenue Andrés Bello No. 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago,
C.P. 7550611, Chile
GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ordinary Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ordinary 6900 Cork Airport Business Park, Kinsale Road, Cork, County Cork,
(Ireland) Limited (ii) (v) Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Ireland IP Limited (ii) (v) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Holding B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o Quota Zmja od Bosne broj 7-7a, Sarajevo, 71000, Bosnia and Herzegovina
GlaxoSmithKline d.o.o. Equity Capital Ulica Damira Tomljanovica Gavrana 15, Zagreb, Croatia
GlaxoSmithKline doo Beograd Ordinary Omladinskih brigada 88, New Belgrade, City of Belgrade, 11070, Serbia
GlaxoSmithKline Ecuador S.A. Ordinary Av 10 De Agosto N36-239 y Naciones Unidas, Edificio
Electroectuatoriana, 2do piso, Quito, Ecuador
GlaxoSmithKline Eesti OU Ordinary Lõõtsa 8a, Tallinn, 11415, Estonia
GlaxoSmithKline ehf Ordinary Thverholt 14, 105, Reykjavik, Iceland
GlaxoSmithKline El Salvador S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Avenida El Boqueron y Calle Izalco No 7 y 8 Parque Industrial El
Boqueron, Santa Elen, Antiguo Custatlan, La Libertad, El Salvador
GlaxoSmithKline EOOD Ordinary 115 G Tsarigradsko Shose Blvd., floor 9, Mladost Region, Sofia,
1784, Bulgaria
GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Export Panama S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Far East B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Guatemala S.A. Ordinary Novena Avenida 0-09, Zona 4, Guatemala City, Guatemala
GlaxoSmithKline Holding AS Ordinary Klaus Torgårds vei 3, Oslo, NO-0372, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Common Wilmington Trust SP Services Inc., 1105 North Market Street,
Suite 1300, Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19801, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Ireland) Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Honduras S.A. Ordinary Tegucigalpa, MDC, Honduras
GlaxoSmithKline IHC Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Nominative Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok Kat:4,
1.Levent, Istanbul, 34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Class A Common 7333 Mississauga Road North, Mississauga, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada
Class C Preference
GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd. Ordinary 19 Par-La-Ville Road, Hamilton, HM11, Bermuda
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property (No.2) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Holdings Limited A Ordinary; B Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Limited Ordinary; Deferred 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Intellectual Property Management Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline International Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investigación y Desarrollo, S.L. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, 28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Holdings Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investment Services Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Ireland) Limited (ii) (v) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland275 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline Investments Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ordinary 4-6-15 Sendagaya, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, 151-8566, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Korea Limited Ordinary 9F LS Yongsan Tower 92, Hangangdae-ro Yongsan-gu, Seoul,
140-702, Republic of Korea
GlaxoSmithKline Latin America, S.A. Ordinary Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Latvia SIA Ordinary Duntes iela 11, Riga, Latvia
GlaxoSmithKline Lietuva UAB Ordinary Ukmerges st. 120, Vilnius, LT-08105, Lithuania
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary Units 2201, 2214 and 23/F, Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road,
Harbour City, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline (Malta) Limited Ordinary 1, First Floor, De La Cruz Avenue, Qormi, QRM2458, Malta
GlaxoSmithKline Manufacturing SpA Ordinary Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Maroc S.A. Ordinary 42-44 Angle Bd, Rachidi et Abou Hamed El Glaza, Casablanca, Morocco
GlaxoSmithKline Medical and Healthcare Products Limited Ordinary H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GlaxoSmithKline Mercury Limited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Ordinary Calzada, Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo, Huipulco,
Delegacion Tlalpan, 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ordinary Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ordinary The Piispansilta 9A, P.O. Box 24, Espoo, FIN-02230, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Peru S.A. Ordinary Av. Javier Prado Oeste, 995, San Isidro, LIMA 27, Peru
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ordinary Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma GmbH Ordinary Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna,
A-1120, Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Kenya Limited Ordinary L.R. NO. 209/6921, 5th Floor, Icea Lion Centre, Riverside Park West
Wing, Chiromo Road, Westlands P.O. Box 10643-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited Ordinary 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Semangat, Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, 46300, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Pvt) Ltd Ordinary 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Suzhou) Limited Ordinary No 40 Su Hong Xi Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, 215021, China
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Costa Rica S.A Ordinary 300 metros al este de la Rotonda de la Betania, Mercedes de
Montes de Oca, Sabanilla, Montes de Oca, San Jose, Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ordinary A; Ordinary B; Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
Ordinary C; Ordinary D
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals SA Ordinary Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Ukraine LLC Chartered Capital Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ordinary 150 Beach Road, #21-00 Gateway West, 189720, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. Common Centro Internacional de Mercadeo, 90 Road # 165, Tower II,
Suite 800, Guaynabo, 00968, Puerto Rico
GlaxoSmithKline Republica Dominicana S.A. Ordinary Av. Lope de Vega 29, Torre NovoCentro, Local 406, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, 28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ordinary Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline s.r.o. Ordinary Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Services GmbH & Co. KG (vi) Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Services Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Services Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited (i) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline SL Holdings, LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LLC LLC Interests Corporation Services Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline SL LP (iv) Partnership 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Slovakia s.r.o. Ordinary Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Limited Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Superannuation Company Pty Ltd Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
(in liquidation)
GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited (ii) (v) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Trading ZAO Ordinary Yakimanskaya nab., 2, Moscow, 119180, Russian Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Tunisia S.A.R.L. Ordinary Immeuble Les Quatres R, Rue du Lac Lochness, Berges du Lac,
Tunis, Tunisia276 GSK Annual Report 2016
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
GlaxoSmithKline UK Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Uruguay S.A. Registered Shares Provisory Salto 1105, CP 11.200 Montevideo, Uruguay
Stock
GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ordinary Urbanizacion La Trinidad, Calle luis De Camoems, Edif No 115-117
Apatado Posta, Caracas, 1010, Venezuela
GlaxoSmithKline Vietnam Limited Liability Company (iv) (vi) Equity Capital Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1,
Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam
Glycovaxyn AG (vi) Common; Preferred A, Grabenstrasse 3, 8952 Schlieren, Switzerland
Preferred B; Preferred C
Group Laboratories South Africa (Pty) Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ordinary 100 Route de Versailles, Marly le Roi, 78160, France
GSK Business Service Centre Sdn Bhd Ordinary Level 6, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Semangat, Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul
Ehsan, 46300, Malaysia
GSK Commercial Sp. z o.o. Ordinary ul. Rzymowskiego 53, Warsaw, 02-697, Poland
GSK d.o.o., Ljubljana Ordinary Ameriška ulica 8,Ljubljana, 1000, Slovenia
GSK Kazakhstan LLP Partnership Interest 273, Furmanov Street, Almaty, 050059, Kazakhstan
GSK Services Sp z o.o. Ordinary Ul. Grunwaldzka 189, Poznan, 60-322, Poland
GSK Vaccines GmbH Ordinary Emil-von-Behring-Str.76, 35041 Marburg, Germany
GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines S.r.l. Quotas Via Fiorentina 1, Siena, 53100, Italy
GSK Vaccines Vertriebs GmbH Ordinary Rudolf-Diesel-Ring 27, Holzkirchen, 83607, Germany
Herbridge Unlimited Company (ii) (vi) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
HGS France S.a.r.l. (iv) (vi) Ordinary 117 Avenue, Victor Hugo, Boulogne-Billancourt, 92100, France
Horlicks Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Human Genome Sciences Pacific Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Human Genome Sciences, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company,2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
ID Biomedical Corporation of Quebec Common 2323 Boul. du Parc Technologique, Québec, G1P 4R8, Canada
ID Biomedical Corporation of Washington (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Instituto Luso Farmaco, Limitada (iv) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores,
Alges, 1495-131, Portugal
InterPharma Dienstleistungen GmbH Quota Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna,
A-1120, Austria
J&J Technologies, LC (iv) LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, Bank of America, 16th Floor,
1111 East Main Street, Richmond, Virginia, VA, 23219, United States
Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline Ordinary 100 Route de Versailles, Marly le Roi, 78160, France
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien LPA Production SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoire Pharmaceutique Algérien SPA Ordinary Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Boumerdes, Algeria
Laboratoires Paucourt (iv) Ordinary 100 Route de Versailles, Marly le Roi, 78160, France
Laboratoires Saint-Germain (iv) Ordinary 100 Route de Versailles, Marly le Roi, 78160, France
Laboratorios Dermatologicos Darier, S.A de C.V. Ordinary Calzada Mexico Xochimilco, 4900 San Lorenzo Huipulco,
District Federal Mexico, 14370, Mexico
Laboratorios Farmaceuticos Stiefel (Portugal) LTDA (iv) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Laboratorios Phoenix Sociedad Anonima Industrial Non-endorsable Nominative Tucuman 1, piso 4to. Ciudad Autonoma de, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA,
Comercial Y Financiera Ordinary Shares Argentina
Laboratorios Stiefel de Chile Y Compañía Limitada Social Capital Avenue Andrés Bello No. 2687, Piso 19, Las Condes, Santiago,
C.P. 7550611, Chile
Laboratorios Stiefel de Venezuela SA Ordinary Calle Luis de Camoens, Edificio GlaxoSmithKline, No. 115-117, Urb.
La Trinidad, Caracas, Venezuela
Laboratorios Stiefel Ltda. Ordinary Rua Professor Joao Cavalheiro Salem 1077, Guarulhos, Sao Paulo, Brazil
Laboratorios Wellcome De Portugal Limitada (iv) Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Maxinutrition Limited (In liquidation) Ordinary 55 Baker Street, London, W1U 7EU, England
Mixis Genetics Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Ordinary Euro
Montrose Fine Chemical Company Ltd Ordinary Shewalton Road, Irvine, Ayrshire, KA11 5AP, Scotland
Montrose Pharma Company Limited Ordinary Quota H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
Montrose Pharma UAB (in liquidation) Ordinary A.Gostauto 40A, Vilnius, LT-01112, Lithuania
Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics AG (in liquidation) Ordinary c/o OBC Suisse AG, Aeschenvorstadt 71, 4051, Basel, Switzerland
Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, 3155, Australia277 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Okairos AG (iv) (vi) Common; Preferred A; c/o OBC Suisse AG, Aeschenvorstadt 71, 4051, Basel,
Preferred B Switzerland
Penn Labs Inc. (iv) Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
S.R. One International B.V. Ordinary Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
S.R. One, Limited Units (Common) Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive, Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, PA, 17110, United States
Setfirst Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Smith Kline & French Laboratories Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Smith Kline & French Portuguesa-Produtos Ordinary Quota Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
Farmaceuticos, LDA (iv) 1495-131, Portugal
SmithKline Beecham (Australia) Pty Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
SmithKline Beecham (Bangladesh) Private Limited (iv) Ordinary 14, Topkhana Road, Segunbagicha, Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh
SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited (ii) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (Export) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham (H) Limited Non-Cumulative 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Non-Redeemables;
Ordinary
SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing) Limited (ii) Ordinary Currabinny, Carrigaline, County Cork, Ireland
SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Animal Health Company (in liquidation) Common 1959 Upper Water Sreet, Suite 800, Halifax, NS B3J 3N2, Canada
SmithKline Beecham Biologicals US Partnership Partnership Interests Corporation Service Company,2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Egypt L.L.C. Quotas Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
SmithKline Beecham Farma, S.A. Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, 28760, Spain
SmithKline Beecham Holdings (Australia) Pty. Limited Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
(in liquidation)
SmithKline Beecham Inter-American Corporation (iv) Shares No par Value (Common) Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Limited Ordinary 6.25p 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Marketing and Technical Services Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Nominees Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Overseas Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Plan Trustee Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pension Trustees Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham Pharma GmbH & Co KG Partnership Capital Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharma Verwaltungs GmbH Ordinary Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (Pty) Limited (iv) (vi) Ordinary Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals Co. Shares No par Value (Common) Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
SmithKline Beecham Port Louis Limited (vi) Ordinary C/o CIM Global Business, 33 Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis, Mauritius
SmithKline Beecham Retirement Plan (Nominees) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Pty Limited (in liquidation)
SmithKline Beecham Senior Executive Pension Plan Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Trustee Limited (iv)
Stiefel Distributors (Ireland) Limited (ii) (iv) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Dominicana SRL (iv) (vi) Ordinary Ave. Lope de Vega 29, Torre NovoCentro, Local 406, Santo Domingo,
Dominican Republic
Stiefel Farma, S.A Ordinary Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
Stiefel GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital Industriestrasse 32-36, Bad Oldesloe, 23843, Germany
Stiefel India Private Limited Equity 401-402, A, Wing, Floral Deck Plaza, Opp Rolta Bhavan, Central MIDC
Road, Mumbai, Andheri (East), India
Stiefel Laboratories (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary Finisklin Business Park, Sligo, Ireland
Stiefel Laboratories (Maidenhead) Ltd Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories (U.K.) Ltd Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories Limited (iv) Ordinary Eurasia Headquarters, Concorde Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire,
SL6 4BY, England
Stiefel Laboratories Pte Limited (iv) Ordinary 103 Gul Circle, 629589, Singapore
Stiefel Laboratories Pty Ltd (in liquidation) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia278 GSK Annual Report 2016
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Name Security Registered address
Wholly owned subsidiaries continued
Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Stiefel Maroc SARL Ordinary 275 Boulevard Zerktouni, Casablanca, Morocco
Stiefel Research (Australia) Holdings Pty Ltd (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel Research Australia Pty Ltd (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Stiefel West Coast LLC LLC Interests Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Strebor Inc. Common Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Tempero Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Series A Preference Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Series B Preference; Common Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
The Sydney Ross Co. (iv) Ordinary Corporation Service Company, 830 Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton,
New Jersey, NJ, 08628, United States
The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
UCB Pharma Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (iv) Ordinary Level 8, Symphony House, Pusat Dagangan Dana 1, Jalan PJU 1A/46,
Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, 47301, Malaysia
Wellcome Consumer Healthcare Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Consumer Products Limited (iv) Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Developments Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Wellcome Limited Ordinary 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Wellcome Operations Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100%
Amoun Pharmaceutical Industries Co. S.A.E. New Monetary Shares 90.7 El Salam City 11491, PO Box 3001, Cairo, Egypt
(99.5%)
Beecham Enterprises Inc. (iv) Common 55.9 Corporation Service Company,2711 Centerville Road,
Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Block Drug Company, Inc. Common 63.5 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
Block Drug Corporation (iv) Common No Par Value 63.5 Corporation Service Company, Princeton South Corporate Center, Suite
160, 100 Charles Ewing Blvd, Ewing, New Jersey, 08628, United States
British Pharma Group Limited Capital (50%) 50 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
de Miclén a.s. Ordinary 63.5 Priemyselny Park Gena, Ul. E. Sachsa 4-6, 934 01,
Levice, Slovakia
Duncan Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 63.5 2266 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
Duncan Pharmaceuticals Philippines Inc. Common 91.5 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
Ex-Lax, Inc. Common 63.5 FGR Corporate Services Inc., Oriental Center, Suite P1, 254 Munoz
Rivera Avenue, San Juan, 00918, Puerto Rico
Galvani Bioelectronics Inc. Common 55 Corporate Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Galvani Bioelectronics Limited A Ordinary 55 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
B Ordinary (0%)
Glaxo Saudi Arabia Limited Ordinary (49%) 49 PO Box 22617, Area No 73 to 156, Warehouse City, First Stage Al
Khomrah, Jeddah 21416, Saudi Arabia
Glaxo Wellcome Ceylon Limited Ordinary 68.3 121 Galle Road, Kaldemulla, Moratuwa, Sri Lanka
Ordinary B
GlaxoSmithKline (Tianjin) Co. Ltd Ordinary (90%) 90 No. 65, the Fifth Avenue, Tai Feng Industrial Park, Tianjin Economic
and Technolog, Tianjin, 300457, China
GlaxoSmithKline Algérie S.P.A. Ordinary 99.99 Zone Industrielle Est, Boudouaou, Wilaya de Boumerdes, Algeria
GlaxoSmithKline Bangladesh Limited Ordinary (82%) 82 Fouzderhat Industrial Area, Dhaka Trunk Road, North Kattali,
Chittagong - 4217, Bangladesh
GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Produtos para Consumo e Saude Ltda Quotas 63.5 66 BL1/302, Vitor Civita Street, Barra Tijuca, Rio de Janeiro,
22775-044, Brazil
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (China) Co. Ltd Ordinary 63.5 Rooms 01A, 06B-09, 23F, The Headquarters Building, No. 168 Tibet
Road (M), Shanghai, 200001, China
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Hong Kong) Limited Ordinary 63.5 Units 2201, 2214 and 23/F, Tower 6, The Gateway, 9 Canton Road,
Harbour City, Tsimshatsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 63.5 12 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus, Dublin, 24, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Overseas) Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England279 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Thailand) Limited Ordinary 63.5 13th Floor, Unit 13.05 and 13.06, Wave Place, 55 Wireless Road,
Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) IP Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (UK) Trading Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (US) IP LLC LLC Interests 63.5 Corporation Service Company,2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S Ordinary 63.5 Nykaer 68, Brondby, DK-2605, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare AB (vii) Ordinary 63.5 Nykaer 68, DK-2605, Brondby, Denmark
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Australia Pty ltd Ordinary 63.5 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. Ordinary 63.5 Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Colombia SAS Ordinary 63.5 Avenida El Dorado, #69B-45/Piso 9, Bogota, Colombia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Czech Republic s.r.o. Ordinary 63.5 Hvezdova 1734/2c, Prague, 4 140 00, Czech Republic
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finance No.2 Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Finland Oy Ordinary 63.5 Piispansilta 9A, Fin-02230, Espoo, Finland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Wagenseilgasse 3, Euro Plaza, Gebäude I, 4. Stock, Vienna, A-1120,
Austria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG Partnership Capital 63.5 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Greece Societe Ordinary 63.5 274 Kifissias Avenue Halandri, Athens, 152 32, Greece
Anonyme
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings (US) LLC LLC Interests 63.5 Corporation Service Company,2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Holdings Limited Ordinary A 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Ordinary B (0%)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. Common 63.5 7333 Mississauga Road, 4th Floor, Mississauga, ON, L5N 6L4, Canada
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ordinary 63.5 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(Ireland) (No 2) Unlimited Company (ii) (v)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Investments Ordinary 63.5 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
(Ireland) (No 3) Limited (ii) (v)
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Japan K.K. Ordinary 63.5 4-6-15 Sendagaya, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, 151-8566, Japan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Korea Co., Ltd. Ordinary 63.5 9F LS Yongsan Tower, 92, Hangang-daero, Yongsan-gu, Seoul,
140-702, Republic of Korea
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare L.L.C. LLC Interests 63.5 Corporation Service Company, 2595 Interstate Drive Suite 103,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, PA, 17110, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited Equity (72.5%) 72.5 Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Mexico, S. Ordinary 63.5 Calzada Mexico-Xochimilco 4900, Colonia San Lorenzo Huipulco,
De R.L. de C.V. Delegacion Tlalpan, Mexico, D.F. 14370, Mexico
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare New Zealand Limited Ordinary 63.5 Level 11, Zurich House, 21 Queen Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Norway AS Ordinary 63.5 Klaus Torgårds vei 3, Oslo, NO-0372, Norway
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pakistan Limited Ordinary (82.6%) 52.4 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Philippines Inc Common 63.5 2266 Don Chino Roces Avenue, Makati City, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Pte. Ltd. Ordinary 63.5 150 Beach Road, #21-00 Gateway West, 189720, Singapore
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos, Madrid,
28760, Spain
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. Ordinary 63.5 Via Zambeletti snc,Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sdn. Bhd. Ordinary 63.5 Lot 89 Jalan Enggang, Ampang-Ulu Klang Industrial Estate, Selangor
Darul Ehsan, 54200, Malaysia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Slovakia s. r. o. Ownership interest 63.5 Galvaniho 7/A, Bratislava, 821 04, Slovakia
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ordinary 63.5 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston
2021, South Africa
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. Common 63.5 ul. Rzymowskiego 53, Warsaw, 02-697, Poland
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sri Lanka Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Holdings Limited
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare SRL Ordinary 63.5 1-5 Costache Negri Street, Opera Center 1, floor 5 and 6 (Zone 1),
District 5, Bucharest, Romania
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. Partnership Interest 55.9 Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
(55.9%) Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, Produtos para Ordinary Quota 63.5 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
a Saude e Higiene, Lda 1495-131, Portugal
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Vietnam Charter Capital 63.5 Floor 16, Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1,
Company Limited Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria plc (iii) Ordinary (46.4%) 46.4 1 Industrial Avenue, Ilupeju, Ikeja, Lagos, PM B 21218, Nigeria
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Private Limited Equity 63.5 Patiala Road, Nabha 147201, Dist Patiala, Punjab, India280 GSK Annual Report 2016
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Trading Services Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
GlaxoSmithKline Costa Rica S.A. Ordinary 63.5 San Jose 300 Este de la Rotonda Betania, Carretera a Sabanilla,
Costa Rica
GlaxoSmithKline Dungarvan Limited (ii) Ordinary 63.5 Knockbrack, Dungarvan, Co Waterford, X35 RY76, Ireland
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare AO Ordinary 63.5 Presnenskaya nab 10, Moscow, 123112, Russian Federation
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Barthstr. 4, Munchen, 80339, Germany
GlaxoSmithKline Healthcare Ukraine O.O.O. Ownership Interest 63.5 Pavla Tychyny avenue, 1-V, Kiev, 02152, Ukraine
GlaxoSmithKline Landholding Company, Inc Common (40%) 36.6 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ordinary 63.5 Likoni Road, PO Box 78392, Nairobi, Kenya
GlaxoSmithKline OTC (PVT.) Limited Ordinary 63.5 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ordinary (82.6%) 82.6 The Sykes Building, 35 Dockyard Road, West Wharf, Karachi, 74000,
Pakistan
GlaxoSmithKline Panama S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Panama City, Republic of Panama, Panama
GlaxoSmithKline Paraguay S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Oficial Gilberto Aranda 333, Planta Alta casi Salvador del Mundo,
Asuncion, Paraguay
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Equity (75%) 75 Dr Annie Besant Road, Mumbai, 400 030, India
GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Common 91.5 2266 Chino Roces Avenue, City of Makati, 1231, Philippines
GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E. Ordinary (91.2%) 91.2 Boomerang Office Building – Land No. 46, Zone (J) – 1st District,
Town Center - 5th Tagammoe, New Cairo City, Egypt
GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public SAS Ordinary 63.5 100 Route de Versailles, Marly le Roi, 78160, France
GlaxoSmithKline Tuketici Sagligi A.S. Nominative 63.5 Büyükdere Caddesi No. 173, 1.Levent Plaza B Blok 1.Levent,
Istanbul, 34394, Turkey
GlaxoSmithKline-Consumer Hungary Limited Liability Company Membership 63.5 H-1124, Csorsz utca 43, Budapest, Hungary
GSK Consumer Healthcare Singapore Pte. Ltd Ordinary 63.5 150 Beach Road, #21-00 Gateway West, 189720, Singapore
GSK CH Argentina S.A. Nominative non 63.5 Tucuman 1, piso 4to, Ciudad Autonoma de, Buenos Aires, C1049AAA,
endorseable ordinary Argentina
shares
GSK CH Kazakhstan LLP Charter Capital 63.5 32 A Manasa Str., Bostandyk District, Almaty, 050008, Kazakhstan
GSK Consumer Healthcare Schweiz AG Ordinary 63.5 Suurstoffi 14, Rotkreuz, 6343, Switzerland
GSK Consumer Healthcare Services, Inc. Common 63.5 Corporation Services Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
GSK-Gebro Consumer Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 38.1 Bahnhofbichl 13, 6391 Fieberbrunn, Kitzbühel, Austria
Iodosan S.p.A. Ordinary 63.5 Via Zambeletti snc,Baranzate, Milan, 20021, Italy
Kuhs GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Barthstr. 4, Munchen, 80339, Germany
Laboratorios ViiV Healthcare, S.L. Ordinary 78.3 Severo Ochoa, 2, Parque Tecnologico de Madrid, Tres Cantos,
Madrid, 28760, Spain
Modern Pharma Trading Company L.L.C. Quotas (98.2%) 98.2 Amoun Street, PO Box 3001, El Salam City, Cairo, 11491, Egypt
Novartis Consumer Health Australasia Pty Ltd (iv) (vi) Ordinary 63.5 82 Hughes Avenue, Ermington, NSW, 2115, Australia
Redeemable Preference
N.C.H. – Nutrition Consumer Health Ltd Ordinary 63.5 14 Hamephalsim St, Petach Tikva, Israel
Novartis Consumer Health GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
Novartis Consumer Health S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Route de I'Etraz 2, 1197 Prangins, Switzerland
Novartis Consumer Health Services S.A. Registered Shares 63.5 Route de l'Etraz, Prangins, 1196, Switzerland
Novartis Consumer Health UK Limited Ordinary 63.5 Park View, Riverside Way, Watchmoor Park, Camberley,
Surrey, GU15 3YL, England
Novartis Consumer Health, Inc. Common 63.5 Corporation Service Company,2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
P.T. SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals A Shares 99 Jl. Pulobuaran Raya, Kav. III DD/2,3,4, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung,
B Shares (0%) Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
P.T. Sterling Products Indonesia A Shares 63.5 Graha Paramita Building, 5th F, Jalan Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Jakarta,
B Shares 12940, Indonesia
Panadol GmbH Ordinary 63.5 Barthstr. 4, München, 80339, Germany
PHIVCO Jersey II Limited (iv) (v) Ordinary 78.3 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey
PHIVCO Jersey Limited (iv) (v) Ordinary 78.3 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey
PHIVCO UK II Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
PHIVCO UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
PHIVCO-1 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
PHIVCO-2 LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
PT Glaxo Wellcome Indonesia A Shares 95 Jl Pulobuaran Raya Kav III DD/, Kawasan Industri Pulogadung, Timur,
B Shares (0%) Jakarta, 13930, Indonesia
PT GSK Consumer Healthcare Indonesia Ordinary 63.5 Graha Paramita 3B Floor, JI. Denpasar Raya Blok D-2, Kuningan,
Jakarta, 12940, Indonesia
PT. Bina Dentalindo (In liquidation) Ordinary 63.5 Gedung Graha Ganesha Lantai 3, Jl Raya Bekasi Km 17, No5,
Jakarta Timur 13930, Indonesia281 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare LLC Common Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ordinary (55%) 34.9 Cheng Lin Zhuang Industrial Zone, Dong Li District, Tianjin, 300163,
China
SmithKline Beecham (Private) Limited Ordinary (99.6%) 63.3 World Trade Center, Level 34, West Tower, Echelon Square,
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka
SmithKline Beecham Research Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
SmithKline Beecham S.A. Ordinary 63.5 Ctra de Ajalvir Km 2.500, Alcala de Henares, Madrid, 28806, Spain
SmithKline Beecham-Biomed O.O.O. Participation Interest 97 Nab Kosmodamianskaya d-52, Building 1, 3rd Floor, Moscow,
(97%) 113054, Russian Federation
Stafford-Miller (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 63.5 Clocherane, Youghal Road, Dungarvan, Co. Waterford, Ireland
Stafford-Miller Limited Ordinary; 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Non-Cumulative Non
Redeemable Preference
Sterling Drug (Malaya) Sdn Berhad Ordinary 63.5 Lot 89 Jalan Enggang, Ampang-Ulu Klang Industrial Estate, Selangor
Darul Ehsan, 54200, Malaysia
Sterling Products International, Incorporated (iv) Common 63.5 Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Stiefel Consumer Healthcare (UK) Limited Ordinary 63.5 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Stiefel Egypt LLC (iv) Quota (99%) 99 3 Amoun Street, El Salam City, Cairo, Egypt
Stiefel Manufacturing (Ireland) Limited (ii) Ordinary 63.5 Finisklin Business Park, County Sligo, Ireland
ViiV Healthcare (South Africa) (Proprietary) Limited Ordinary 78.3 Flushing Meadows Building, The Campus, 57 Sloane Street,
Bryanston 2021, South Africa
ViiV Healthcare BV Ordinary 78.3 Huis ter Heideweg 62, 3705 LZ, Zeist, Netherlands
ViiV Healthcare Company Common 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
ViiV Healthcare Finance 1 Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance 2 Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Finance Limited Ordinary; Redeemable 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Preference
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Prinzregentenplatz 9, Munchen, 81675, Germany
ViiV Healthcare GmbH Ordinary 78.3 Talstrasse 3-5, 3053 Muenchenbuchsee, Switzerland
ViiV Healthcare Hong Kong Limited Ordinary 78.3 23/F Tower 6, The Gateway, Harbour City, 9 Canton Road, Tsimshatsui,
Kowloon, Hong Kong
ViiV Healthcare Kabushiki Kaisha Ordinary 78.3 4-6-15 Sendagaya, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, 151-8566, Japan
ViiV Healthcare Limited Class A Shares, Deferred; 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
Class B Shares (0%)
Class C Shares (0%)
Class D1 (0%)
Class D2 (0%);
Class E 5% Cumulative
Preference (0%)
ViiV Healthcare Overseas Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare Pty Ltd Ordinary 78.3 1061 Mountain Highway, Boronia, VIC, 3155, Australia
ViiV Healthcare Puerto Rico, LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Centro International de Mercadeo, 90 carr. 165 Torre 2, Suite 800,
Guaynabo, 00968, Puerto Rico
ViiV Healthcare S.r.l. Quota 78.3 Via Alessandro Fleming 2, Verona, 37135, Italy
ViiV Healthcare SAS Ordinary 78.3 100 Route de Versailles, Marly le Roi, 78160, France
ViiV Healthcare sprl Ordinary 78.3 Site Apollo, Avenue Pascal 2-4-6, Wavre, 1300, Belgium
ViiV Healthcare Trading LLC Participation Interest 78.3 Krylatskaya str., 17/3., Moscow, 121614, Russian Federation
ViiV Healthcare Trading Services UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.2) Limited (v) Ordinary 78.3 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.3) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.4) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK (No.5) Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare UK Limited Ordinary 78.3 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, England
ViiV Healthcare ULC Common 78.3 3500 855-2nd Street SW, Calgary, AB, T2P 4J8, Canada
ViiV Healthcare Venture LLC LLC Interests 78.3 Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
ViiV HIV Healthcare Unipessoal Lda Quota 78.3 Rua Dr Antonio Loureiro Borges No 3, Arquiparque, Miraflores, Alges,
1495-131, Portugal
Winster Pharmaceuticals Limited Ordinary 46.4 2A Association Avenue, Ilupeju Industrial Estate, Lagos, PO Box 3199,
Nigeria
Zhejiang Tianyuan Bio-Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd Ordinary (95%) 95 No. 56, Tian He Road, Yuhang Economic Development Zone, Hangzhou,
Zhejiang Province, China282 GSK Annual Report 2016
Other statutory disclosures continued
Group companies continued
Effective %
Name Security Ownership Registered address
Subsidiaries where the effective interest is less than 100% continued
Associates
Apollo Therapeutics LLP Partnership Interest (25%) 25
Calci Medica Inc. Series A and Junior 33.9
Preferred (33.9%)
Index Ventures Life VI (Jersey) LP Partnership Interest (25%) 25
Innoviva, Inc. Common (29.5%) 29.5
Japan Vaccine Distribution Co., Ltd Ordinary (50%) 50
JCR Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd Common (24.6%) 24.6
Kurma Biofund II, FCPR Partnership Interest (32%) 32
Longwood Founders Fund LP Partnership Interest (28%) 28
Medicxi Ventures I LP Partnership Interest (26.2%) 26.2
River Vision Development Corp. Series A Preferred (33%) 33
Joint Ventures
Chiron Panacea Vaccines Private Ltd (In liquidation) 50 708/718, 7th Floor, A Wing, Sagar Tech Plaza, Saki Naka, Andheri East,
Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400072, India
Japan Vaccine Co., Ltd 50 6 Yonbancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan
Qualivax Pte Limited 50 80 Robinson Road, #02-00, 068898, Singapore
Qura Therapeutics LLC 50 Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400,
Wilmington, Delaware, DE, 19808, United States
Key
(i) Directly owned by GlaxoSmithKline plc. (iv) Dormant company.
(ii) E xempt from the provisions of section 347 and 348 of the Companies Act 2014 (v) Tax resident in the UK.
(Ireland), in accordance with the exemptions noted in Section 357 of that Act. (vi) Entity expected to be disposed of or removed.
(iii) C onsolidated as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 (4)(a) of the (vii) Incorporated in Sweden.
Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.283 GSK Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Governance and remuneration
Financial statements
Investor information
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay
the charging and payment of tax. The equivalent of tax depreciation.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) R eceipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GSK ADR represents two Ordinary Shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADS) Listed on the New York Stock Exchange; represents two Ordinary Shares.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) In 2012, the company entered into a settlement with the US Federal Government related to past
sales and marketing practices. As part of the settlement the company entered into a Corporate
Integrity Agreement with the US Department of Health and Human Services.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth
of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Equity Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
GSK GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as computer software, brands, licences, patents,
know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Novartis transaction The three-part inter-conditional transaction with Novartis AG involving the Consumer Healthcare,
Vaccines and Oncology businesses completed on 2 March 2015.
Ordinary Share A fully paid up ordinary share in the capital of the company.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue The number of shares outstanding.
Subsidiary An entity in which GSK exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.
UK Corporate Governance Code As required by the UK Listing Authority, the company has disclosed in the Annual Report how it
has applied the best practice corporate governance provisions of the Financial Reporting
Council’s UK Corporate Governance Code.284 GSK Annual Report 2016
Index
Page Page
Accountability 97 Major restructuring costs 175
Accounting principles and policies 162 Movements in equity 201
Acquisitions and disposals 205 Net debt 198
Adjustments reconciling profit after tax to operating New accounting requirements 168
cash flows 203 Nominations Committee Report 94
Annual General Meeting 2017 266 Non-controlling interests 209
Approach to tax 55 Non-controlling interests in ViiV Healthcare 58
Assets held for sale 188 Non-Executive Directors’ fees 126
Associates and joint ventures 177 Notes to the financial statements 162
Audit & Risk Committee Report 97 Operating profit 173
Cash and cash equivalents 188 Other intangible assets 184
CEO’s statement 5 Other investments 187
Chairman’s statement 4 Other non-current assets 187
Chairman’s Governance statement 80 Other non-current liabilities 198
Chairman’s Remuneration report statement 112 Other operating income 173
Commitments 211 Other provisions 197
Consolidated balance sheet 159 Our behaviour 46
Consolidated cash flow statement 161 Our Board 82
Consolidated income statement 158 Our business model 12
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 160 Our global marketplace 8
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 158 Our integrated approach 6
Consumer Healthcare 34 Our people 48
Consumer Healthcare products and competition 252 Our planet 50
Contingent consideration liabilities 208 Our strategy priorities 14
Contingent liabilities 199 Pay for performance 119
Corporate Executive Team 86 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 189
Corporate governance 79 Pharmaceuticals 20
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 108 Pharmaceutical products, competition and
Critical accounting policies 76 intellectual property 250
Directors and senior management 134 Pipeline 247
Directors’ interests in shares 127 Post balance sheet events 224
Directors’ statement of responsibilities 148,232 Presentation of the financial statements 162
Dividends 180,265 Principal Group companies 225
Donations to political organisations and Principal risks and uncertainties 18,253
political expenditure 271 Property, plant and equipment 181
Earnings per share 180 Quarterly trend 240
Employee costs 174 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 204
Employee share schemes 223 Registrar 268
Exchange rates 168 Related party transactions 203
Executive Director remuneration 116 Relations with shareholders 107
Finance expense 176 Remuneration governance 124
Finance income 176 Remuneration policy report 138
Financial calendar 265 Remuneration report 112
Financial instruments and related disclosures 212 Reporting framework 57
Financial position and resources 72 Research and development 12,24,32,38
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared Responsible business 40
under UK GAAP 232 Segment information 169
Five year record 244 Share capital and control 263
Glossary of terms 283 Share capital and share premium account 200
Goodwill 182 Share price 263
Group companies 272 Shareholder information 263
Group financial review 52 Shareholder services and contacts 268
Health for all 44 Taxation 178
How we manage risks 18 Tax information for shareholders 266
Independent Auditors’ report 149,233 Trade and other payables 189
Inventories 188 Trade and other receivables 188
Investments in associates and joint ventures 186 US law and regulation 270
Investor relations 269 Vaccines 28
Key accounting judgements and estimates 166 Viability statement 56
Key performance indicators 16
Leadership and effectiveness 88
Legal proceedings 226GSK Annual Report 2016
About GSK
GlaxoSmithKline plc was incorporated as Brand names
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report
an English public limited company on are trade marks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK
or associated companies, with the exception of Prolia,
6 December 1999. We were formed by a merger owned by Amgen, Zofran, owned by Novartis and
Trumenba, owned by Pfizer.
between Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline Acknowledgements
Design
Beecham plc. GSK acquired these two English Friend www.friendstudio.com
Printing
companies on 27 December 2000 as part of Pureprint Group, ISO 14001.
FSC certified and Carbon Neutral.
the merger arrangements.
Paper
This Annual Report is printed on Revive 100 Silk,
a 100% recycled paper with full FSC certification.
Our shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange All pulps used are made from 100% de-inked,
post-consumer waste and are elemental chlorine free.
and the New York Stock Exchange. The manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and
EU Ecolabel certificates for environmental management.
Read more at www.gsk.com
Download PDFs:
Annual Report 2016
Form 20-F
Responsible Business Supplement 2016
Cautionary statement regarding Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed The assumptions for the Group’s revenue and earnings
forward-looking statements under ‘Principal risks and uncertainties’ on pages 253 to expectations assume no material mergers, acquisitions,
The Group’s reports filed with or furnished to the US 262 of this Annual Report. Any forward-looking statements disposals, litigation costs or share repurchases for the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date Company; and no change in the Group’s shareholdings in
document and written information released, or oral they are made and are based upon the knowledge and ViiV Healthcare or Consumer Healthcare. They also assume
statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf information available to the Directors on the date of this no material changes in the macro-economic and healthcare
of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Annual Report. environment.
Forward-looking statements give the Group’s current A number of adjusted measures are used to report the The Group’s expectations assume successful delivery of the
expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor can performance of our business. These measures are defined Group’s integration and restructuring plans over the period
identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate on page 57 and a reconciliation of core results 2016-2020. Material costs for investment in new product
strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as to total results is set out on page 66. launches and R&D have been factored into the expectations
‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, given. The expectations are given on a constant currency
‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar meaning in The information in this document does not constitute an basis and assume no material change to the Group’s
connection with any discussion of future operating or offer to sell or an invitation to buy shares in GlaxoSmithKline effective tax rate.
financial performance. In particular, these include plc or an invitation or inducement to engage in any other
statements relating to future actions, prospective products investment activities. Past performance cannot be relied Notice regarding limitations on
or product approvals, future performance or results of upon as a guide to Director Liability under English Law
current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, future performance. Nothing in this Annual Report Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits
the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, should be construed as a profit forecast. the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and
and financial results. Other than in accordance with its legal omissions from the Directors’ Report (for which see
or regulatory obligations (including under the UK Listing Assumptions related to 2016-2020 outlook page 110), the Strategic report and the Remuneration
Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the In outlining the expectations for the five-year period report. Under English law the Directors would be liable to
Financial Conduct Authority), the Group undertakes no 2016-2020, the Group has made certain assumptions about the company, but not to any third party, if one or more of
obligation to update any forward-looking statements, the healthcare sector, the different markets in which the these reports contained errors as a result of recklessness or
whether as a result of new information, future events or Group operates and the delivery of revenues and financial knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a
otherwise. The reader should, however, consult any benefits from its current portfolio, pipeline and restructuring material fact, but would otherwise not be liable. Pages 79 to
additional disclosures that the Group may make in any programmes. 110, 148, 232 and 253 to 282 inclusive comprise the
d r d a c loe n aio osa y uc c kd tu p il ie no om ar gs nrse u t e, sin r c dw tet au s s nh tl a e. oew A r mr t h e ec t ei ov xc c ne p h o p tr e s r li l acdt .o ctp ic n a eu a g t ib t uole yl nni ,ds d n,h w uose ei h ls a l o r bsa eu s en ll iu d ad mr n/ ato e ca nr tk ec fi ae e ol n e n nc ds o a t st hw ne h e i b aot h fref oe tt rg hhh wi oee v a ls e dS re n deE -rtC sh a. a tA r ell T h p eGF xao h eS cse rr lf K t uobih n sreee t m ier vx oG p ian td ye n r f uo c ca focu ct es rtp t . i oo oTf us rn thep hr et do ee h f G rc e i na ki rfi rt eoogdc yu eea t pphncll y reel ai o, n r sGo die c sv us r ue a o c mir l un tt set p eh s r o’ snae s v l a nae ep t oss rie v s tr peo hi eo r f et es d oS s m p e mt A eo ar d re e t2 iuv onti r0 a t dd e 2 i o .e r l 0 Tf o/ i nA i hst d s esth v f oe ua f i t Ur u. rS e D S t a E ch n onti er r d nge a R nlc t p ie s eet ro g h cem r i ts ccs iu oe o’ nr nnR me e tp wee r pao dp iat tr o i hnit o n r ya tnt ha, n l ar ep cd e w sa c pp eg o ao ae r rnr dg es t da,e p 2 e ns t oh a c t r1 eo c te1 s h l7 1 w i sao8 hit btf o ah i in w l l i1 la tc h i4 bn elu i6 ec d ss h si oi inv n uh fe c bra t l hec u v jeelo es i ca im Dv b tn ep e tic r o er eec i n s tco u h e tm d p eo t r o p rh a snre w i is nne up
Forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions, Group’s expectation of at least £6 billion of revenues per limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
inherent risks and uncertainties, many of which relate to annum on a CER basis by 2020 from products launched in Website
factors that are beyond the Group’s control or precise the last three years includes contributions from the current
estimate. The Group cautions investors that a number of pipeline asset Shingrix. This target is now expected to be GSK’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information
important factors, including those in this document, could met up to two years earlier. The Group also expects volume on the Group. Notwithstanding the references we make in
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed demand for its products this Annual Report to GSK’s website, none of the
or implied in any forward-looking statement. to increase, particularly in Emerging Markets. information made available on the website constitutes part of
this Annual Report or shall be deemed to be incorporated by
reference herein.Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
Registered number: 3888792
www.gsk.com
Search for us here