Annual Report 2005
Corporate
Website
brochure
About us Meeting global challenges
Our products Commitment to innovation
Your health Access to medicines
Responsibility Therapy areas
In the community Our mission
Research & Development What would A better future
Investors
you like to know
Media centre
Careers about GSK?
www.gsk.com
Corporate
Annual
responsibility
review
report
human being
Access to medicines An interview with
Research and innovation the Chairman and CEO
Ethical conduct Focus on the patient
Annual
Employees The year of the vaccine
Human rights Growing brands
report
Environment Powering performance
Community investment Performance highlights
Business operating review
Summary remuneration report
An interview with Corporate governance
the Chairman and CEO Summary financial statements
Financial summary Shareholder information
Description of business Chairman and CEO’s
Corporate governance closing letter
Remuneration report
Operating and financial review
and prospects
Financial statements
Notes to the financial
statements
Investor information
Do more, feel better, live longer
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road Designed by CGI London.
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
Printed by The Midas Press in the UK. The paper used in the
United Kingdom
production of this document is made from pulps harvested
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues and
www.gsk.com forest thinnings. It is elemental chlorine-free. Do more, feel better, live longer
GlaxoSmithKline
Annual
Report
2005“Discovering important medicines
eradicating diseases, improving
the quality of people’s lives
and making medicines available
to a greater number of people
This is what we do – and what we do matters to people.”
JP Garnier (left) and Sir Christopher Gent (right)“Thanks to the efforts of our employees around the world,
2005 was a very successful year for GSK. Not only
was it our best year ever from a financial standpoint,
we also made substantial progress with our pipeline
of innovative medicines and vaccines.”
JP Garnier, Chief Executive Officer
An interview with Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman and JP Garnier, Chief Executive Officer
2005: a year of success and progress
GSK delivered an excellent financial performance in 2005. Year of the vaccine
Turnover of £21.7 billion grew by 7% at constant exchange 2005 was a landmark year for GSK’s vaccines business. Sales
rates (CER). Earnings per share (EPS) were 82.6p, with growth increased by 15% and the company made a number of
of 18% at CER, putting GSK in the top tier of global significant strategic acquisitions. “The acquisition of ID Biomedical
pharmaceutical companies in terms of performance. was an important move for GSK,” says JP, “which strengthened
our position in the global flu vaccine market,and increased our
“These figures confirm the excellent growth of our key products
ability to prepare for and respond to a potential flu pandemic.”
and the efficiency of our global operations,” says JP.
“The pharmaceutical industry is making a
GSK’s performance was driven by sales of key pharmaceutical
products. “Sales of Seretide/Advair, Avandia, Coreg, Lamictal positive improvement to people’s lives. It
and Valtrex all continued their impressive growth,” says JP. has a noble purpose. It develops medicines
“We also saw good performance from a number of newer
and vaccines that save lives and make
products, including Avodart for enlarging prostate, Boniva/
people feel better.”
Bonviva for osteoporosis and Requip for Restless Legs
Syndrome, which all show great promise for the future, both Sir Christopher Gent, Chairman
for patients and GSK.”
“We also acquired a plant in Marietta, Pennsylvania which will
“Looking into 2006, the strong growth seen from key products give us access to tissue culture technology in our vaccine
and from our vaccines business is expected to continue and we manufacturing. The acquisition of Corixa gives us valuable
anticipate an EPS growth of around 10% at CER.” adjuvant technology, enabling us to boost human immune
response to our vaccines.”
Pipeline progress
GSK continues to meet the challenge of increasing Research & GSK also made good progress on its pipeline of new vaccines.
Development (R&D) productivity to discover new medicines “We expect five major vaccine launches in the next five years,”
faster and more economically. The company’s pipeline is one of says JP. “Perhaps most exciting is Cervarix for cervical cancer,
the largest and most promising in the industry, with 149 projects which we expect to file for approval in Europe in March 2006
in clinical development (as at the end of February 2006), and in the USA by the end of the year.”
including 95 new chemical entities (NCEs), 29 product line
Improving access to medicines
extensions (PLEs) and 25 vaccines.
GSK continues to seek new ways of improving access to its
“In 2006, we anticipate further good news on GSK’s late-stage medicines for people who need them, but are least able to
pipeline, which is developing at a fast pace. Eight major new obtain them. This challenge is particularly acute in the developing
assets are scheduled to enter phase III in 2006, doubling our world, where GSK has been offering many of its medicines and
late-stage pipeline,” says JP. vaccines at not-for-profit prices for some years.
GSK Annual Report 2005
01However, addressing this challenge is something GSK cannot “The tragedies during the year brought home to me the extent
do alone. The work of GSK with organisations such as the Bill to which the pharmaceutical industry is making a positive
&Melinda Gates Foundation highlights the benefits of public- improvement to people’s lives,” says Sir Christopher. “It has a
private partnerships. They provide a way for companies such noble purpose. It develops medicines and vaccines that save
asGSK and the private sector to work together. Typically, GSK lives and make people feel better.”
provides the R&D, technology, manufacturing and distribution
Being human
expertise, while other partners and governments help fund
We continue to meet the challenges of improving productivity
the development and delivery costs.
in R&D and ensuring patients have access to medicines, even in
In 2005, GSK entered three groundbreaking public-private the poorest parts of the world. ThisReporthighlights some of
partnerships to develop vaccines against the biggest causes of the work we have done to implement our strategies to meet
death in the developing world today – AIDS, malaria and these challenges. Behind each one is a human story.
tuberculosis.
We thank all our employees for their efforts in 2005. Their
commitment and passion, both individually and through their
“Public-private partnerships use the
teamwork, have helped us make GSK the success it is today. We
respective strengths of the partners
also appreciate the great support our employees receive from
and bring out the best of each. Most their families for the work they are doing at GSK.
importantly, it is a model that works.”
We are grateful for the significant contribution of Tachi Yamada,
Chairman of R&D and Executive Director, who is to retire in June
Reaching out to patients 2006, and we welcome Moncef Slaoui, who will succeed Tachi
In 2005, GSK introduced and strengthened a number of with effect from 1stJune 2006. We would also like to thank Jack
initiatives aimed at improving patients’ understanding of GSK’s Ziegler, President of GSK Consumer Healthcare, who retired from
medicines, and programmes to help gain access to them. These the company in January 2006, and welcome his successor, John
initiatives include GSK’spioneering Clinical Trial Register,which Clarke. Wealso thank Dr Lucy Shapiro, who is to retire as a Non-
was expanded to contain 2,125 summaries of clinical trials by Executive Director at the company’s Annual General Meeting in
the end of 2005. May 2006, and we welcome Tom de Swaan, who joined the
Board in January 2006 as a new Non-Executive Director.
In the USA, GSK is placing more emphasis on education and
the patient in direct-to-consumer advertising, and providing
people with advice on GSK’s programmes and the industry’s
Partnerships for Prescriptions Assistance which help people gain
access to the medicines they need.
“Through these and other initiatives, we are seeking to
differentiate GSK as a company finding solutions to the
healthcare challenges that society faces. I believe we are well on
the way to achieving that,” says Sir Christopher.
Abroader contribution
Sir Christopher Gent JP Garnier
GSK's global community investment activities in 2005 were Chairman Chief Executive Officer
valued at £380 million, equivalent to 5.6% of Group profit
before tax.
The year saw a number of natural disasters, including the Asian
tsunami, the Guatemalan hurricane, the New Orleans floods
and the earthquake that struck parts of India and Pakistan. GSK
was quick to respond to help victims of these tragedies. “My
thanks go to our employees for their response to these crises. It
makes me proud to lead an organisation with such committed
and compassionate people, who can respond so effectively to
help people in real need,” says JP.
For these disasters alone, GSK contributed morethan £3 million
in cash and donated medicines and vaccines valued at over £14
million towards the relief efforts.
GSK Annual Report 2005
02Contents
Report of the Directors
Financial summary 04
Description of business 05
Corporate governance 27
Remuneration Report 37
Operating and financial review and prospects 55
Financial statements
Directors’ statements of responsibility 82
Independent Auditors’ report 83
Consolidated income statement 84
Consolidated balance sheet 85
Consolidated cash flow statement 86
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 88
Notes to the financial statements 89
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc 165
Investor information
Financial record 172
Shareholder information 182
Taxation information for shareholders 186
Glossary of terms 187
Index 188
The Annual Report was approved by the Board of Directors on1st
March 2006 and published on3rdMarch 2006.
Website
GlaxoSmithKline’s website, www.gsk.com gives additional information
on the Group. Information made available on the website does not
constitute part of this Annual Report.
GSK Annual Report 2005
03Financial summary
Growth
2005 2004
£m £m CER% £%
Turnover 21,660 19,986 7 8
Operatingprofit 6,874 5,756 16 19
Profit before taxation 6,732 5,779 13 16
Profit after taxation for the year 4,816 4,022 17 20
Profit attributable to minority interests 127 114
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,689 3,908
Earnings per share 82.6p 68.1p 18 21
Diluted earnings per share 82.0p 68.0p
Dividends per share 44p 42p
Net cashinflow from operating activities 5,958 4,944
Net assets 7,570 5,937
History and development of the company
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on 6th December 1999 under English law. Its shares arelisted on the London
Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. On 27th December 2000 the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and SmithKline
Beecham plc, both English public limited companies, by way of a scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two companies. Both Glaxo
Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were major global healthcare businesses.
GSKplcand its subsidiary and associated undertakingsconstitute a major global healthcare group engaged in the creation, discovery,
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical and consumer health-related products.
GSKhas its corporate head office in London. It also has operational headquarters in Philadelphia and Research Triangle Park, USA, and
operations in some119countries, with products sold in over130countries. The principal research and development (R&D) facilities are in the
UK, the USA, Japan, Italy, Spain and Belgium. Products are currently manufactured in some 37countries.
The major markets for the Group’s products are the USA, France, Japan, the UK, Italy, Germany and Spain.
Business segments
GSKoperates principally in two industry segments:
•Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines)
•Consumer Healthcare (over-the-counter medicines, oral care and nutritional healthcare).
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies. The results of the
Group, as reported in sterling, are therefore affected by movements in exchange rates between sterling and overseas currencies. Average
exchange rates prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings
and joint ventures into sterling. Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of those undertakings. The currencies which most influence
these translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth. This
represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained unchanged
from those used in the previous year. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group's reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written information released, or oral
statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group's
current expectations or forecasts of future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with
any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals,
future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors,including those in this document,
could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed
under ‘Risk factors’ on pages71to74of this Annual Report.
GSK Annual Report 2005
04
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERDescription of business
The Description of business discusses the strategy, activities,
resources andoperating environment of the business and identifies
developments and achievements in 2005, under the following
headings:
Strategy
Strategyand business drivers 06
Business drivers
Build the best product pipeline in the industry 07
Achieve commercial and operational excellence 14
Improve access to medicines 15
Be the best place for the best people to do their best work 16
Global manufacturing and supply 17
Corporate responsibility and community investment 18
Annual Report and Review Products and competition
This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year Pharmaceutical 20
ended 31st December 2005, prepared in accordance with United Consumer Healthcare 23
Kingdom requirements.
Regulatory environment
A summary report on the year, the Annual Review 2005, intended for
Regulation 24
the investor not needing the full detail of the Annual Report, is
Intellectual property 25
produced as a separate document.
Responsibility for environment, health and safety 26
The Annual Review includes the joint statement by the Chairman and
Discussion of the Group’s management structures and corporate
the Chief Executive Officer, a summary review of operations, summary
governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance (pages27
financial statements and a summary remuneration report.
to36).
The Annual Review is issued to all shareholders. The Annual Report is
The Remuneration Report gives details of the Group’s policies on
issued to shareholders who have elected to receive it. Both documents
Directors’ remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors and
are available on GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate website at www.gsk.com.
senior management in 2005 (pages37to 54).
Discussion of the Group’s operating and financial performance and
financial resources is given in the Operating and financial review and
prospects (pages55to80).
GSK Annual Report 2005
05
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Mission
Our global quest is to improve the quality of human life by
enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer.
Our Spirit
We undertake our quest with the enthusiasm of entrepreneurs,
excited by the constant search for innovation. We value
performance achieved with integrity. We will attain success as
a world class global leader with each and every one of our
people contributing with passion and an unmatched sense of
urgency.
In this Report:
‘GlaxoSmithKline’,the ‘Group’or ‘GSK’means GlaxoSmithKline plc and its
subsidiary undertakings.
The ‘company’ means GlaxoSmithKline plc.
‘GlaxoSmithKline share’ means an Ordinary Share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p.
American Depositary Share (ADS) represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Throughout this report, figures quoted for market size, market share and market
growth rates relate to the 12 months ended 30th September 2005 (or later where
available). These are GSK’sestimates based on the most recent data from
independent external sources, valued in sterling at relevant exchange rates. Figures
quoted for product market share reflect sales by GSKand licensees.
Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are trademarks either
owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or associated companies, with the
exception of Baycoland Levitra, trademarks of Bayer, Boniva/Bonviva, a trademark
of Roche, Entereg, a trademark of Adolor Corporation in the USA, Hepsera, a
trademark of Gilead Sciencesin some countries including the USA, Integrilin, a
trademark ofMillennium Pharmaceuticals, Micropump, a trademark of Flamel
Technologies, Natrecor, a trademark of Scios and Janssen, Navelbine, atrademark
of Pierre Fabre Médicament, Nicoderm, atrademarkof Sanofi-Aventis, Elan,
Novartis or GlaxoSmithKline in certain countries,Pritor, a trademark of Boehringer
Ingelheim andVesicare, a trademark of Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals, and in
Japan and South Korea a trademark of Astellas Pharmaceuticals,all of which are
used in certain countries under license by the Group.Strategy and business drivers
GlaxoSmithKlineis addressing the key challenges that face both the Corporate Responsibility
pharmaceutical industry and society as a whole: In working tomeet these challengesand implement thesebusiness
drivers,GSK recognises that it has a responsibility to support the
• improving productivity in research and development
delivery of better healthcare and education in under-served
•ensuring patients have access to new medicines communities and to connect business decisions to ethical, social and
environmental concerns. GSK’s commitment to theseisoutlinedon
The strategies to meet these challenges focus on several business
pages18to19,with more information available in the Corporate
drivers:
Responsibility Report, which is available on the website at
Build the best product pipeline in the industry www.gsk.com
The Group is aiming to create the best product pipeline in the industry
for the benefit of patients, consumers and society. This includes
developing a focused portfolio strategy to support the pipeline and
manage the full life cycle of compounds from their launch as
prescription medicines through to becoming over-the-counter
products where appropriate. This strategy includes selective in-
licensing and efficient execution of development, commercialisation
and the supply chain processes.
GSK’s R&D organisation measures productivity by the number and
innovation of the products it creates, and also by the commercial
value of theseproducts and their ability to address the unmet needs
of all consumers. This includes patients, healthcare professionals,
budget holders and regulators, each with their own perspective on
what constitutes a valuable new product.
Further details are given on pages7 to 13.
Achieve commercial and operational excellence
GSK links research and commercial operations closely in order to
maximise the value of the portfolio. As compounds are developed
and tested, marketing campaigns and sales efforts are planned.
Where appropriate within markets, the Group aims to build strong
relationships with patients and consumers as the ultimate users of
its medicines.
Common approaches to management processes and business
functions are used by an internationally diverse and talented
management team in order to create and sustain competitive
advantage in all markets. Further details are given on page14.
Improve access to medicines
GSK has created extensive programmes designed to improve the
healthcare of people who have limited access to medicines both in the
developed and developing world.These are set out in the ‘Improve
access to medicines’ section of this report (page15).
Be the best place for the best people to do their best work
The single greatest source of competitive advantage of any
organisation is its people. The Group’s ambition is tobethe place
where great people apply their energy and passion to make a
difference in the world. Their skills and intellect are key components
in the successful implementation of the Group’s strategy. The work
environment supports an informed, empowered and resilient
workforce, in which the Group values and draws on the diverse
knowledge, perspectives, experience, and styles of the global
community. Further details are given on page16.
GSK Annual Report 2005
06
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessBuild the best product pipeline in the industry
Research and Development – Pharmaceuticals Each CEDD is responsible for assessing the safety and other
development characteristics of lead compounds in preclinical screens,
GSK’s strategic intent is to become the indisputable leader in the
some of which may involve using animals. This allows the selection of
industry. This success depends on the bedrock of the Group’s
the best candidate for a new medicine. Once this is achieved, the
business – a vibrant and productive Research and Development
CEDDs are responsible for demonstrating that the compound has
(R&D) function that develops new ways to help patients while
satisfied a proof of therapeutic concept during mid-stage clinical trials.
supporting existing products.
A decision is then made on whether the information available justifies
Focus on thePatient
the compound’s progression into late-stage drug development, where
R&D’sfocuson the patientinvolvesseekingthe views of patients and
large-scale clinical trials are conducted to register and commercialise
their families for an understanding of the most important aspects of
the product.
their disease and the impact it has on their lives. This information, in
conjunction with discussions with key opinion leaders, is then used During 200518compounds entered clinical trials for the first time.
to shape drug development programmes so that new medicines are
AGSK research facility focusing on new therapies in the treatment of
likely to benefit patients.
neurodegenerative illnesses,such as Alzheimer’s disease,was opened
Finding candidate compounds in Singaporein 2005.
Two components are needed in the early stages of finding new
The application of experimental medicine is a major opportunity for
medicines – targets that can be shown to affect mechanisms of
the industry.An important tool in this field is clinical imaging, which
important pathological processes in human disease and compounds
enables visualisation of changes in the body made in response to the
able to modulate the behaviour of specific targets.
administration of a new medicine. In 2005 world-class imaging
Many diseases arise through complex interactions between gene experts wererecruited from both the USAand UK, as GSK prepared
variants and environmental factors. Within GSK, Genetics Research to open the Clinical Imaging Centre at the Hammersmith Hospital
aims to take advantage of this by identifyinggenes which influence in London in 2006. In addition, R&D has established global
common diseases with large unmet medical needs and major patient collaborations with academic imaging centres that make it aleader
burdens. These insightshelp in the search fortargets with known in application of imaging for drug discovery and development.
relevance to the disease, and hence a greater chance of delivering
Converting candidates to medicines
benefit to the patients.
Preclinical Development (PCD) includes a wide range of activities
Discovery Research (DR) produces the lead compounds that may throughout the entire drug development process. It is also involves the
influence targets whichform the basis of drug discovery efforts in enhancement of existing products by devising more convenient
GSK’s Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery (CEDDs). In 2005, formulations. Early in the development process, the metabolism and
DR performed over 90 million assays and provided the CEDDs with safety of compounds are evaluated in laboratory animals before
50 high-quality new lead compounds. Investment in DR has been testing in humans. The testing required in animals is highly regulated
focused on increasing the quality and quantity of the lead (see Animals and research, page10).
compounds available.
PCD researchers investigate appropriate dosage forms (for example,
Selecting the best candidate molecules tablets or inhalers) and develop formulations to enhance a drug’s
The fundamental steps in turning a lead compound into a drug effectiveness and ease of use by the patient. Processes and
candidate are optimising it for potency, efficacyandsafety and then supporting analytical methods for drug synthesis and product
demonstrating the validity of the therapeutic hypothesis through early formulation and delivery are scaled up to meet increasing supply
clinical trials of the resulting candidate. requirements. This leads to the technical transfer of the processes and
methods to manufacturing. The New Product Supply process, a
These steps are helped by rapid, informed decision making and creative
partnership between R&D and Global Manufacturing and Supply,
solutions to the issues that inevitably arise in this phase of development.
ensures that a robust product is developed for large-scale commercial
GSK hasdesignedthe CEDDs,which are focused on specific disease
manufacturing and launch.
areas,to be nimble and entrepreneurial. There are seven CEDDs, based
in Europe and the USA: To provide focus for the development process, all the major functional
components of clinical, medical, biomedical data, regulatory and
•Biopharmaceuticals – Stevenage, UK
safety are integrated into a single management organisation,
•Cardiovascular & Urogenital Diseases – Upper Merion, USA
Worldwide Development (WWD).
•Metabolic & Viral Diseases – Research Triangle Park, USA
•Microbial, Musculoskeletal & Proliferative Diseases, including cancer GSK’s Medicine Development Centres (MDCs), which provide a focus
– Upper Providence, USA for late-stage development, are responsible for creating value through
•Neurology & Gastrointestinal Diseases – Harlow, UK the delivery of full product development plans, managing the day-to-
•Psychiatry – Verona, Italy day operational activities for the late-stage development portfolio and
•Respiratory and Inflammation – Stevenage, UK. ensuring strong partnerships with the CEDDs and Global Commercial
Strategy (GCS).
GSK Annual Report 2005
07
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessBuild the best product pipeline in the industry
continued
The MDCs are based at the major USAand UK sites and are aligned Extending the use of existing products
with the following therapeutic areas: Once a product is launched, it is important to establish additional
ways in which patients can be helped. This can be through
•Cardiovascular/Metabolic
investigating whether any other illnesses may be treated with the
•Infectious Diseases including Diseases of the Developing World
product or by the development of additional, more convenient dosage
(DDW)
forms. Some developments reflect feedback from patients and the
•Musculoskeletal/Inflammation/Gastrointestinal/Urology
medical professions, while others are the result of continuing research
•Neuroscience (Psychiatry/Neurology)
into disease and its causes.
•Oncology
•Respiratory. Examples of the importance of lifecycle management to GSK include
the new indication of restless leg syndrome for Requipand monthly
These teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide
dosing of Boniva to simplify its administration for prevention of
development opportunities for each product within their remit so that
osteoporosis. Line extensionsaddsignificantvalue totheproduct
all the information needed to support the registration, safety
portfolio. Recent examples,such as Augmentin ES/XR, Seroxat/Paxil
programmes, pricing and formulary negotiations is available when
CRand Wellbutrin XL, achieved sales of £888millionin 2005.
needed. Commercial input from Global Commercial Strategy ensures
that regional marketing needs are integrated into any development Productivity
plans at an early stage. The challenge of increasing R&D productivity continued in 2005.
Programmes to identify associations between diseases and genes have
In addition, R&D is investigating new ways of operating to enableit
helped point to areas of researchmorelikely to produce new ways of
to respond to the variety of external pressures on the industry,such
helping patients. Increased automation in screening has provided
as increasing regulatory stringency,so thatit ispositioned to ensure
higher quality lead compounds more quickly.
thateffective new medicines reach patients as soon as possible.
Progress of the portfolio is communicated to investors and the media
GSK believes that pharmacogenetic research, which correlates
at regular intervals during the year. Amajor presentation on the
genetic data with response to medicine, will help to reduce pipeline
vaccine portfolio was held in June and on the oncology and supportive
attrition and improve productivity. R&D is collecting DNA samples in
care portfolio in November 2005. Details of GSK’s product
clinical studies to identify pharmacogenetic information that can help
development pipeline are given on pages11to13.
predict a patient’s response. This information is intended to define
patient groups likely to gain benefit from treatment, or to suffer a Managing the portfolio
side effect,as the compound progresses through development in With improved productivity, more compounds are progressed into
the clinic. Ultimately, pharmacogenetics promises to provide later phases of development. This progress, however, puts demands
physicians with information to help them select the medicine and on our R&D resources and it is important to look objectively at the
dose most likely to benefit their patient. portfolio.Key projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed
each month by the Product Management Board (PMB), which is
During 2005, R&D has taken several approaches to improving
responsible for determining if an asset has met criteria for passing
productivity in clinical trials,including an increasing use of countries
into the next phase of development.
outside Western Europe and the USAand the introduction of direct
electronic data capture in most new clinical trials. These GSK continues to identify compounds from other companies that
improvements in productivity will continue going forward. would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations
to ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for large
All clinical trials sponsored by GSK, irrespective of where they take
and small companies.
place, are conducted according to international standards of good
clinical practice and applicable laws and regulations. The protocols In 2005 a specific Centre of Excellence for External Drug Discovery was
are reviewed by the external regulatory agencies in the relevant created. This small internal management team is responsible for
countries where required and all protocols are considered by an Ethics delivering compounds with clinical proof of concept by establishing
Review Committee,whose remit covers the site where the study will and managing long-term strategic collaborations with biotechnology
take place. Safety data is routinely collected throughout development companies, small- and mid-sized pharmaceutical companies, and
programmes and is reported to national and regional regulatory academic institutions.The Group has committed funding for two
agencies in line with applicable regulations. years to these collaborations, with an option to renew for an
additional three years.
The GSK Global Safety Board is responsible internally for approving
pivotal studies and investigating any issues related to patient safety In-licensing
arising during the development programme.During 2005, GSK took In-licensing or co-marketing/co-promotion agreements concluded in
a further step in making information from its clinical trials widely and 2005 were:
easily available by extending its Clinical Trial Register, a public website
•The development and commercialisation of VertexPharmaceuticals
on which clinical trials data are published. Regulatory authorities will
Inc.’s VX-409, Nav1.8 Na-channel blocker plus back-up molecules
continue to be informed of the data generated so they may be
for pain (preclinical)
reassuredofthe safety and efficacy of GSK’s products.The Clinical Trial
•The development and promotion of Allergan Inc.’s Botox in Japan
Register will enhance the ability of clinicians to make informed clinical
and China
judgements to benefit their patients.
•The development and commercialisation of a renin inhibitor
program (preclinical) with Vitae Pharmaceuticals Inc.
GSK Annual Report 2005
08
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessBuild the best product pipeline in the industry
continued
•The exercise of an optionfor Theravance Inc.’s inhaled muscarinic In 2005,GSKmade a number ofinvestments thatstrengthen its
antagonist / beta 2 agonist programme (preclinical) vaccinecapabilities:
•The exercise of options for Human Genome Science Inc.’s •a significant increase in flu vaccine manufacturing and development
LymphoStat B (completed Phase IIa) for rheumatoid arthritis and capacity by:
systematic lupus erythematosus and mapatumumab TRAIL R1 – acquiring IDBiomedical, a North American developer of vaccines
monoclonal antibody for various cancer indications (Phase II). for infectious diseases and producer of influenza vaccines with
Discontinuations sites in Canada and the USA, for £874 million
All R&D carries a risk of failure. Lead compounds showing positive – investing over £64 million in extending its German vaccine facility
activity against a validated target may proveinsufficiently safe to – purchasing a vaccine R&D and manufacturing site in the USA
introduce to humans orimpossible to manufacture on a commercial •acquiringUS based Corixa Corporation, a developer of innovative
scale. Also, compounds may not show the expected benefits in vaccine adjuvants, for approximately £150million
patients in large scale clinical testing. These discontinuations occur •entering into three groundbreaking public-private partnerships to
despite extensive predictive testing. develop vaccines against the three biggest killers in the developing
world,AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
Late-stage projects terminated during 2005 in Phase III included
aplaviroc (873140)and 695634, both for HIV, Avandiafor psoriasis GSK expects to launch five major new vaccines within the next five years:
and Lamictal XRfor schizophrenia. •ahumanpapillomavirusvaccinepreventingcervical cancer
•the USA and EU launch of a vaccine against rotavirus induced
Research and development – vaccines
gastroenteritisand the strengthening of its presence in international
The majority of GSK’s vaccine R&D activities are conducted at its
markets
biologicals headquarters in Rixensart, Belgium. Theseincludeclinical
•a vaccine against pneumococcal disease
development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy, scaling up,
•an improved vaccine for influenza
vaccine production, packaging and all other support functions. Over
•vaccine combinations against meningitis.
1,500 scientists are devoted to developing new vaccines and more
cost-effective and convenient combination vaccines to prevent The strength of GSK’s vaccine pipeline is expected to provide
infections that cause serious medical problems worldwide.GSK is opportunities for GSK todeliver new vaccines for many years to come.
also targeting therapeutic vaccines that may prevent relapse in
Diseases of the developing world
cancer patients.
Continued investment in research into diseases that disproportionately
Vaccine discovery involves many collaborationswith academia and affect the developing world is essential if there is to be a long-term
thebiotech industry worldwide and allows identification of new improvement in the health of people who live in these regions. As part
vaccine antigens which are then expressed in yeast, bacteria or of GSK’s response to this challenge, it operates a drug discovery unit,
mammalian cells and purified to a very high level. dedicated to finding new medicines for these diseases, based at Tres
Cantos, Spain. The work undertaken in Tres Cantos focuses on malaria
This is followed by formulation of the clinical lots of the vaccine. This
and tuberculosis which, together with work elsewhere in the Group
may involvemixing antigens with selected novel proprietary adjuvants,
on HIV/AIDS and vaccines, means GSK is addressing the prevention
which are designed to stimulate a goodimmune response. The first
and treatment of all three of the World Health Organization’s (WHO)
step is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the candidate vaccine in
top priority diseases.
a preclinical setting, usually involving an animal model. The candidate
vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy individuals to evaluate GSK currently has 14 clinical programmes of relevance to the developing
safety andeffectivenessin inducing an immune response to protect world, eight of which are aimed at producing vaccines and medicines
the body frominfectionencountered later in a natural setting(Phase for diseases that disproportionately affect developing countries.
I/II). Large-scale field trials in healthy individuals follow to establish
Public/private partnerships (PPP) remain essential to fund research
safety and efficacy in a cross section of the population(Phase III).
where there is no commercially viable market for a potential product.
The results obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the GSK is a leader in working with PPP and continues to collaborate closely
development of a quality and large-scale production process and with many governments, academic centres, United Nations’ agencies
facilities are then combined into a regulatory file which is submitted and other global funding bodies in this area, to maximise expertise
to the authorities in the various countries where the vaccine is to be and knowledge. This has the dual benefit of encouraging research and
made available. development and accelerating access to the medicines in the
developing world. For example, in 2005, GSK announced partnerships
After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are set up
with the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development, the Aeras Global
to assess vaccination programmes’impact and to monitor vaccine
TBVaccine Foundation and the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative.
safety (Phase IV).
GSK’s malaria ‘falcipain inhibitors’ project was chosen for the Medicines
Vaccine manufacturing is particularly complex as it requires the use for Malaria Venture ‘project of the year’ award.
of living micro-organisms. Sophisticatedqualityassurance andquality
control procedures are in place to ensure both quality and safety of
the vaccinesand this commonly includes animal use.Due to their
biological nature, health authorities maysubject vaccines to a second
controlto guarantee the highest quality standards.
GSK Annual Report 2005
09
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessBuild the best product pipeline in the industry
continued
Animals and research GSK’s submissions to the regulatory authorities in the USA and EU for
For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals the first time and approvals during 2005 were:
remains a small but vital part of research and development of new USA Europe
medicines and vaccines. GSK only uses animals where there is no Submission 5 7
alternative and only in the numbers required for each test. The Group Approval 6 6
strives to exceed regulatory standards in the care and use of the 11 13
animals it uses and undergoes internal and external review to assure
these standards.
In 2006, the late-stage pipeline is expected to expand further with
The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals. eight major assets anticipated to enter phase III development. Also,
GSK is actively engaged in research to develop and validate more tests in 2006, GSK anticipates seven products will be approvedand/or
that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce the numbers launched and seven product filings are planned. For further details
needed. When animals are used in research unnecessary pain or of these developments expected in 2006 see the GSK outlook on
suffering is scrupulously avoided. page71.
GSK understands that use of animals for research purposes GSK’s policy is to obtain patent protection on all significant products
commands a high level of public interest. The GlaxoSmithKline Public discovered or developed through its R&D activities. Patent protection
Policy Position ‘The care and ethical use of animals in research’, and for new active ingredients is available in all significant markets.
further information and reports, are available on the website, Protection can also be obtained for new pharmaceutical formulations
www.gsk.com,or from Secretariat. and manufacturing processes, and for new medical uses and special
devices for administering products.
Research and development – Consumer Healthcare
Key
R&D has aligned itself closely with the new Consumer Healthcare
(v) Vaccine
operating model and structure. For the Global brands, it now mirrors
(p) Pharmaccine
the commercial structure with R&D teams paired with commercial
* Compounds in Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals LLC joint
teams and located in the principal centres for Consumer Healthcare venture
R&D at Weybridge in the UK and in Parsippany in the USA; with this † In-license or other alliance relationship with third party
co-location, these sites are now termed Innovation Centres. The focus S Date of first submission
of R&D is on the identification and rapid development of novel A Date of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU
approval letter)
products that bring benefits to consumers in the over-the-counter
AL Approvable letterindicates that ultimately approval can be given
(OTC), oral care and nutritional healthcare markets. subject to resolution ofdeficiencies
MAA Marketing authorisation application (Europe)
GSK’s pipeline NDA New drug application (USA)
Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
The charton the rightshows new chemical entities (NCE)andproduct Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in
line extensions (PLE) for projects in the clinic in 2001 and 2005.At the a small number of patients
end of February 2006, GSK hadnearly 200pharmaceutical and vaccine Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
projects in development. Of these, 149 are in the clinic comprising 95 treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety
NCEs, 29 PLEs and 25 vaccines, compared with 118 in 2001. Since
2001 the number of projects in the late stages of developmenthas
increased from 31 to57.
This maturity in the late stage pipeline is expected to lead to an increase
in registrations in the coming years. The content of the drug
development portfolio will change over time as new compounds
progress from discovery to development and from development to the
market. Owing to the nature of the drug development process, many
of these compounds, especially those in early stages of investigation,
may be terminated as they progress through development. Phase I
NCEs with multiple indications are counted only once. NCEs in later
phases are counted by each indication. For competitive reasons, new
projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some
project types may not have been identified.
GSK Annual Report 2005
10
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of business
160
149
11
26% of pip eline
118 38% of
120
12 La t e - stage 46 pipeline
growth
19
80
25 38
40 41 29
21 25
0
2001 2005
NCEs Phase III/ NCEs Phase I
registration PLEs
NCEs Phase II VaccinesBuild the best product pipeline in the industry
continued
Estimated filingdates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Cardiovascular & Metabolic
256073 high affinity nicotinic acid receptor dyslipidaemia I
(HM74A) agonist
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis (also rheumatoid arthritis & chronic I
obstructive pulmonary disease, COPD)
813893 factor Xa inhibitor prevention of stroke in atrial fibrillation I
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis (also rheumatoid arthritis & COPD) I
rilapladib† lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 atherosclerosis I
(Lp-PLA2) inhibitor
501516† peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor dyslipidaemia II
(PPAR) delta agonist
590735 PPAR alpha agonist dyslipidaemia II
odiparcil† indirect thrombin inhibitor prevention of thrombotic complications of cardiovascular II
disease
darapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis ll/III
Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome III 2006 2006
Coreg CR† beta blocker hypertension & congestive heart failure – once-daily Submitted N/A S:Dec05
Metabolicprojects
625019 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes I
716155† glucagon-like peptide 1 agonist type 2 diabetes I
856464 melanin concentrating hormone antagonist obesity I
radafaxine noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor obesity (also fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain & depression) I
189075† sodium dependent glucose transport (SGLT2) type 2 diabetes II
inhibitor
677954 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes II
869682† SGLT2 inhibitor obesity II
denagliptin dipeptidyl peptidase lV (DPP IV) inhibitor type 2 diabetes II
solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist type 2 diabetes (also overactive bladder) II
Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist + metformin type 2 diabetes – extended release III 2007
Avandia + simvastatin PPAR gamma agonist + statin type 2 diabetes III 2007
Avandaryl† PPAR gamma agonist + sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes – fixed dose combination Approved S:May05 A:Dec05
Infectious Diseases
565154 oral pleuromutilin treatment ofbacterial infections I
742510 oral pleuromutilin treatment of bacterial infections I
270773† phospholipid anti-endotoxin emulsion sepsis II
farglitazar PPAR gamma agonist hepatic fibrosis II
sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis II N/A
chlorproguanil, dapsone + antifolate + artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria IIl 2007 N/A
artesunate (CDA)†
Etaquine† 8-aminoquinoline malaria III
Altabax(retapamulin) topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections Submitted 2006 S:Nov05
Antivirals
825780† DNA antiviral vaccine HIV infection I
brecanavir† aspartyl protease inhibitor HIV infection II
Relenza† neuraminidase inhibitor influenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Nov05 S:Nov05
Musculoskeletal, Inflammation, Gastrointestinal &Urology
221149 oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour I
232802 3G-selective oestrogen receptor modulator treatment of menopausal symptoms I
267268 vitronectin integrin antagonist age-related macular degeneration I
366074† potassium channel opener overactive bladder I
relacatib† cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis (also bone metastases) I
751689† calcium antagonist osteoporosis I
768974† parathyroid hormone agonist osteoporosis I
786034 tyrosine kinase inhibitor psoriasis I
842470† PDE IV inhibitor (topical) atopic dermatitis I
876008† corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF1) antagonistirritable bowel syndrome (also depression & anxiety) I
dutasteride + testosterone 5-alpha reductase inhibitor + testosterone hypogonadism – fixed dose combination I
solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist overactive bladder (also type 2 diabetes) I
270384 endothelial cell adhesion molecule inhibitor inflammatory bowel disease II
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis (also migraine) II
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis (also atherosclerosis & COPD) II
683699† dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) inflammatory bowel disease (also multiple sclerosis) II
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) rheumatoid arthritis (also atherosclerosis & COPD) II
casopitant NK1 antagonist overactive bladder (also depression & anxiety, II
chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting)
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody eosinophilic esophagitis (also asthma & nasal polyposis) II
rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist rheumatoid arthritis (also Alzheimer’s disease) II
Avodart+ alpha blocker 5-alpha reductase inhibitor + alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia – fixed dose combination III 2007 2007
Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer III
Entereg/Entrareg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist opioid induced GI symptoms III 2007 2007
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome(also asthma & nasal polyposis)III 2006 2006
Entereg/Entrareg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus Approvable 2007 AL:Jul05
Boniva/Bonviva† bisphosphonate treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis Approved S:Apr05 A:Jan06
– i.v.injection
GSK Annual Report 2005
11
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessBuild the best product pipeline in the industry
continued
GSK Annual Report 2005
12
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of business
Estimated filing dates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Neurosciences
163090 presynaptic mixed 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
189254 histamine H3 antagonist dementia I
234551† endothelin A antagonist stroke I
406725 gap junction blocker migraine, epilepsy & neuropathic pain I
644784 dual-acting COX-2 inhibitor acute & chronic pain conditions (including neuropathic I
pain) & schizophrenia
737004† endothelin A antagonist stroke I
823296 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
842166 non-cannabinoid CB2 agonist inflammatory pain I
876008† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety (also irritable bowel syndrome) I
radafaxine noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor fibromyalgia & neuropathic pain (also obesity) I
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor migraine (also rheumatoid arthritis) II
372475† triple (5HT/noradrenaline/dopamine) re-uptake depression and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder II
inhibitor
468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II
683699† dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis (also inflammatory bowel disease) II
705498 transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 acute migraine II
(TRPV1) antagonist
742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II
773812 mixed 5HT/dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia II
casopitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety (also overactive bladder, II
chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting)
radafaxine noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression (also obesity) II
rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer's disease (also rheumatoid arthritis) II
talnetant NK3 antagonist schizophrenia II
vestipitant + paroxetine NK1 antagonist + selective serotonin re-uptake depression & anxiety II
inhibitor
406381 dual-acting COX-2 inhibitor acute & chronic pain III
Lamictal sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder – acute treatment III N/A 2006
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy – once-daily III 2006
Requipextended release non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legs syndrome III 2006
RequipModutab/XL non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinson’s disease – once-daily controlled release Submitted S:Dec05 2006
24hour† formulation
Trexima† 5HT1 agonist + naproxen migraine – fixed dose combination Submitted N/A S:Aug05
Wellbutrin XL† noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor seasonal affective disorder Submitted S:Dec04
Wellbutrin XL† noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression Approved 2006 A:Aug03
Oncology
559448† thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia I
743921† kinesin spindle protein (KSP) inhibitor cancer I
elacridar oral bioenhancer cancer I
relacatib† cathepsin K inhibitor bone metastases (also osteoporosis & osteoarthritis) I
casopitant NK1 antagonist postoperative nausea & vomiting II 2007 2007
(also overactive bladder, depression & anxiety)
casopitant NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced nausea & vomiting II
(also overactive bladder, depression & anxiety)
ethynylcytidine† selective RNA polymerase inhibitor solid tumours II
iboctadekin† recombinant human IL18 immunomodulator immunologically-sensitive cancers (melanoma & renal cell) II
ispinesib† KSP inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer & other tumours II
pazopanib vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) solid tumours II
tyrosine kinase inhibitor
vestipitant NK1 antagonist postoperative nausea & vomiting II
eltrombopag† thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia III 2006/07 2006/07
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first-line therapy III 2007 2007
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second-line therapy – oral formulationIII 2007 2007
Tykerb/Tycerb ErbB-2 and epidermal growth factor receptor breast cancer (also renal,head & neck cancers) III 2006/07 2006/07
(EGFR) dual kinase inhibitor
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor cervical cancer second-line therapy Submitted 2006 S:Dec05
Arranon guanine arabinoside prodrug acute lymphoblastic leukaemia & lymphomas Approved 2006 A:Oct05
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second-line therapy Approved A:Jan06 A:Nov98Build the best product pipeline in the industry
continued
GSK Annual Report 2005
13
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of business
Estimated filing dates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Respiratory
256066 PDE IV inhibitor (inhaled) asthma, COPD & allergic rhinitis I
656398† muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD I
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also atherosclerosis & rheumatoid arthritis) I
870086 novel glucocorticoid agonist asthma I
961081† muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD I
159797† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
159802† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
233705 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II
597901† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
642444† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
678007† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also rheumatoid arthritis & atherosclerosis) II
685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long-acting II
beta2 agonist (also allergic rhinitis)
799943 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long-acting II
beta2 agonist
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody asthma & nasal polyposis (also hypereosinophilic syndrome II
& eosinophilic esophagitis)
Avamys/Allermist glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis III 2006 2006
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid COPD – mortality claim III 2006 2006
Seretide beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – initial maintenance therapy Submitted S:Aug04 N/A
Ariflo PDE IV inhibitor (oral) COPD Approvable AL:Oct03
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Jun00 AL:Oct01
& Oct02
Paediatric Vaccines
Hib-MenCY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups C&Y disease& II
Haemophilus influenzae type b disease prophylaxis
MenACWY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W&Y disease II
prophylaxis
Globorix conjugated diptheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, Haemophilus lll 2006
influenzae type b disease, Neisseria meningitis groups
A&C disease prophylaxis
Streptorix† conjugated S.pneumoniae disease prophylaxis for children lll 2007
Priorix-Tetra live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella & varicella prophylaxis Submitted S:Apr04
Rotarix† live attenuated – oral rotavirus induced gastroenteritis prophylaxis Submitted S:Dec04
Menitorix conjugated Neisseria meningitis group C disease&Haemophilus Approved A:Dec05
influenzae type b disease prophylaxis
Other Vaccines
HIV recombinant HIV infection prophylaxis l
S. pneumoniae elderly† recombinant S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis l
S. pneumoniae paediatric recombinant S. pneumoniae disease prophylaxis l
(PGCvax)
Varicella Zostervirus recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention l
Tuberculosis† recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis I/II
Dengue fever† attenuated tetravalent vaccine Dengue fever prophylaxis ll
Epstein-Barr virus† recombinant EBV infection prophylaxis ll
Flu improved inactivated split-adjuvanted influenza prophylaxis ll
Flu intranasal (FluINsure) inactivated split-adjuvanted influenza prophylaxis ll
Hepatitis E virus recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis ll
Mosquirix† recombinant malaria prophylaxis ll
Cervarix† recombinant human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis lll 2006 2006
Fluviral inactivated split influenza prophylaxis lll 2006
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis lll
Flu pandemic inactivated whole-aluminium salt adjuvant influenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Dec05
Pharmaccines
P501 recombinant treatment of prostate cancer l
Her2 recombinant treatment of breast cancer l/II
MAGE-3† recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer & melanoma llAchieve commercial and operational excellence
GSKundertakes a range of activities to maximise the commercial ConsumerHealthcare marketing excellence
potential of its intellectual property, by introducing innovative products The structure ofthisbusiness was redesigned in 2004 in order to focus
into as many markets as possible, accelerating the processof bringing on brands and their growth opportunities. For those brands that have
new products to market, increasing brand recognition and ensuring sales in multiple marketsa new team called the Future group has
that patients have access to new medicines. Both the pharmaceutical been created to develop a global approach to support these global
and consumer healthcare businesses focus on ways to improve brands. For those brands that are large and marketed in several
existing performance through commercial and operational excellence territories, but generally with one lead market,one anchor market
initiatives.Some of these are: team leads development of these lead market brands. The remaining
valuable localbrands are managedthrougha new model,which
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales force excellence
retains local responsibility for the brand, communications and
GSK’ssales force has always ranked high on surveys with healthcare
innovation. These local enterprise brands are also supported globally
professionals. Worldwide sales force excellence (WSFE) aims to
and regionally to ensure the application of best practice and cross
improve customer satisfaction even further.
pollination of innovation.
The time available for physicians to learn about new medicines and
Maintaining high standards
clinical studies is precious. Through the WSFE initiative, sales
GSK expects employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects
representatives strengthen product knowledge and learn to deliver
of business by conducting activities with honesty and integrity,
patient-specific treatment options more efficiently and more
adhering to corporate responsibility principles and complying with
effectively. Research shows that a sales visit is highly effective when a
applicable laws and regulations. GSK audits its operations to ensure
representative engages the physician in dialogue around patient types
relevant standards expected, such as those in marketing practices,
and supports the message with visual aids that illustrate clinical results.
are reached or exceeded.
The Group has introduced a single global sales call model that focuses
Commitment to the GSK Code of Conduct is reinforced each year by
on treating the patient through a dialogue about ”when“ a GSK
a senior management certification programme, and in 2005over
medicine is appropriate, “why” it is effective and “how” to administer
12,000managers certified they had complied with “Performance
it safely.All field people in the Group’s key markets had been trained
with Integrity” principles.
in the new “When? Why? How?” approach. The entire sales
organisation isnow involvedin WSFE to bring about a cultural change Patient advocacy
that raises ethical standards and helps build long-term, trusting The Patient advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant progress
relationships with the healthcare community. since its inception in 2002. The rationale for the strategy centres on
enhancing access for the Group’s medicines by connecting with
Pharmaceutical marketing excellence
patient groups to ensure that they are informed of disease treatments,
Large numbers of patients suffering the effects of their disease
as well as improvingGSK’sreputation as a patient-centric group.
continue to be unable to benefit from innovative medicines and
treatments. One of GSK’s goals is to provide accurate and balanced Initially launched as a USprogramme, itisnowa critical initiative in
information on the Group’s products to allow as many people as strategic plans throughout the world. Patientadvocacy teams in the
possible to benefit from GSK’s medical advances. For example within USA and Europe have shared best practices and established processes
Europe, around 50% of patients suffering from Chronic Obstructive to optimise interaction with patient groups. In 2005,Patientadvocacy
Pulmonary Disease(COPD)are diagnosed and, of those, only 60% Leaders Summits were held in the USA, Europe and Canada, with
receive regular maintenance drug therapy. GSK’s marketing initiative over 1,000 patient advocates attending GSK sponsored meetings
implements programmes to overcome the barriers to proper diagnosis throughout the world. Two diabetes summits were held with minority
and treatment. As these programmes begin to show effects, the legislative groups in the USA in the hopes of developing a base for
societal costs of disease will decrease. To the extent that a GSK product future legislation and awareness activities.
is chosen for patients’ treatment, the Group will benefit as well.
Vision Factory
Marketing codes GSK introduced the Vision Factory initiative in Global Manufacturing
GSK is committed to ethical, responsible and patient-centred and Supply which is identifying improvements in productivity and cost
marketing. The Group’s Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional reduction. This will increase operational excellence in the
Activity policy governs marketing activities and apply to all manufacturing operations to ensure product quality and patient safety
employees, suppliers, contractors and agents. This policy requires are paramount.
that all marketing and promotional activities are based on valid
Procurement
scientific evidence, and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
GSKnon-production operations are supported by a number of third
This policy is supported by regional marketing practices codes in party purchases; worldwide this covers all areas including media,
Europe, GSK’s International region, Japan and the USA. These codes travel, R&D, ITand marketing. These purchases are managed by
apply the same ethical standards but reflect differences in market procurement, on behalf of their internal customers, and covers
structures, national healthcare systems and regulations. They assurance of supply, service, quality, cost and innovation. Widely
incorporate the principles of industry codes of practice such as the recognised by industry analysts as a global best practice leader,
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries Associations, the procurement works collaboratively with the business to develop and
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations, implement sourcing strategy that ensures GSK receives best value
Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and Pharmaceutical when buying goods and services.
Research and Manufacturers of America marketing codes.
GSK Annual Report 2005
14
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessImprove access to medicines
Access to healthcare in the developing world While much was achieved in 2005, sustainable progress will only occur
if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better access to
Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a major
healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global
challenge to the global community. The problem, which is rooted in
society – governments, international agencies, charities, academic
poverty and a lack of political will, continues to demand a significant
institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and others.
mobilisation of resources and a true spirit of partnership. GSK
continues to play a vital role, through its commitment to R&D into
Access to medicines in thedeveloped world
diseases particularly prevalent in the developing world, through its
programme of preferential pricing for its anti-retrovirals (ARVs), anti- Programmes in the USA
malarials and vaccines, through its community investment GSKis working to provide meaningful access to medicines for people
programmes and through its willingness to seek innovative solutions, with limited financial resources and without prescription drug
such as voluntary licencing arrangements. insurance. In 2005, GSK’s USpatient assistance programs provided
$464million worth of medicines,valued at wholesale acquisition cost,
Preferential pricing programme
to565,000qualifying low income US residents.
GSK has offered its vaccines to key organisations for vaccination
programmes in developing countries at preferential prices for over For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or
20 years. The Group also sets a single not-for-profit price for each Medicaid, GSK and 11 other pharmaceutical companies created
of its ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the Together Rx Access, a programme for qualified individuals offering
Least Developed Countries (UN definition) and sub-Saharan Africa, reductions in the usual pharmacy cost onmore than275 medicines.
as well as Country Coordinating Mechanism-projects fullyfunded Launched in 2005, there are over 353,000 Together RxAccess
by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria and the US cardholders, whosaved about $10.1 millionin 2005.
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).
GSK participates in the Partnership for Prescription Assistance (PPA),
GSK is committed to contributing to health improvements in a the largest nationalprogrammededicated to helping people in need
sustainable manner. The prices for its ARVs and anti-malarials are access prescription medicines.PPA has matched more than one million
therefore set at levels at which no profit is made, but direct costs are US patients in need to programs providing significant help. GSK and
covered, allowing supply to be sustained for as long as required. other US pharmaceutical companies launched the program in 2005
During 2005, GSK shipped to developing countries over45million in partnership with healthcare, physician and patient advocacy
tablets of preferentially-priced Combivirand over 81 million tablets of organisations.
preferentially-priced Epivir.
Programmes in other countries
The offer of not-for-profit prices requires a sustainable framework, The Group has also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts
combining GSK’s commitment to preferential pricing with on certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in Bulgaria,
commitments from governments of the developed world to avoid Lithuaniaand Ukraine. The nature of the discounts varies between
price referencing against preferentially priced medicines and to help countries, depending on the needs of the patient and the way in
prevent product diversion. GSK has taken steps to minimise the which the healthcare system operates.
threat of diversion. Retrovir syrup, Epivirsolution,Combivir, Epivir
Preparing for a flu pandemic
tablet and Trizivirare now available in special access packs in more
The Group is committed to doing everything it can to support
than 50 countries. Differentiated red (as opposed to traditional
governments and health authorities around the world in planning
white) Combivir and Epivir tablets are now registered across a
responses to a possible global influenza pandemic. GSK was the first
number of International markets. GSK is the only company to have
company to submit a “mock-up” dossier to the EMEA to apply for
registered its ARVs under the European Union’s Anti-Diversion
a pandemic influenza vaccine marketing authorisation in the EU,
Regulation. During 2005, it also continued to encourage other
which allows for an accelerated final registration once a pandemic
countries to take the necessary steps to ensure the introduction
is declared. GSKis also developing an H5N1 prototype pandemic
and strict enforcement of appropriate anti-diversion measures.
vaccine and clinical trials testing of this vaccine against the H5N1 flu
Innovative solutions strain are taking place in 2006.To increase the performance of its
GSK has shown industry leadership in granting voluntary licences to prototype pandemic vaccine, GSK has developed an innovative
seven generic companies for the manufacture and supply of ARVs to adjuvant that may allow loweramounts of antigento be used, which
both the public and private sectors in sub-Saharan Africa. is essential formanufacturing large number of dosesin the event of
a pandemic.
Looking ahead
GSKwill continue to build on its products, pricing and partnership
commitments to help improve healthcare in the developing world.
However, a significant increase in funding from the global community
is still needed. It is also important to maintain incentives for R&D
through protection of intellectual property.
GSK Annual Report 2005
15
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessBe the best place for the best people to do their best work
GlaxoSmithKline people The Group is committed to employment policies free from
discrimination against potential or existing staff on the grounds of
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to creating the best place for the best
age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith
people to do their best work to deliver the Group’s business strategy.
or disability. GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities
The Group employs over 100,000 people in over 116 countries.
access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.Every
Recruitment, talent management and leadership effort is made to retain and support employees who become disabled
development while working with the Group.
Attracting the best people in the industry is critical to enhancing and
Communication and employee involvement
sustaining GSK’s performance. The Group’s recruiters in the USAand
Good internal communication is important in achieving GSK’s business
UK arefocussedon pro-active identification of talented external
objectives as well as creating an open and inclusive work environment.
candidates for key jobs, acting as an internal headhunting function.
There are a range of communication channels to keep employees
The annual performance and development planning (PDP) process up-to-date with GSK’s news and enable them to give feedback. These
ensures that employees set objectives aligned with corporate include:
strategies, set behavioural goalsand create a development plan. PDPs
•myGSK, the global intranet site, provides news and updates and a
are reviewed throughout the year, culminating with an end of year
Q&A section where employees put questions directly to the Chief
review that is factored into compensation decisions.
Executive Officer and other senior executives. Up to 100 questions
The annual talent management cycle identifies the highest performing are answered each month. Behind the News, a section of the GSK
people in each business and function. Individuals are given feedback intranet, gives the Group’s position on important issues linked to
on development needs and key talent is developed through press stories about GSK
exceptional management and leadership programmes (for more detail •Spirit, GSK’s internal magazine, reaches around 50,000 employees
see the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Report), exposure to top throughout the world four times a year
management through programmes such as the Chief Executive Forum •confidential feedback mechanisms enable employees to raise
and via stretch assignments. A pool of successors is identified for all concerns. These include GSK’s integrity helpline.
Vice-President positions and other critical roles in the organisation.
The Group conducts a Global Leadership Survey (GLS) every two years.
Performance and reward The last GLS was conducted in 2004 among more than 10,000
Reward systems are designed to support a culture of high managers to gauge opinion on critical issues such as culture and
performance and to attract and retain the best people. Performance confidence in the Group’s future. Results showed significant
based pay, share awards and share options align employee interests improvement on 29 of 31 items compared with 2002 results.
with the accomplishment of business targets. Compared with global benchmarks, managers rate highly on fostering
alignment between personal goals and the GlaxoSmithKline mission
Business ethics and reputation
and fostering an environment of ethics and integrity. In the survey,
Performance with Integrity is central to operating at GSK. The most
80%of managers were “proud to be part of GlaxoSmithKline” and
recent Global Leadership Survey showed over 90% believe that
would “gladly refer a friend or family member to work for GSK”.
“people in their department show commitment to performance with
integrity”. To enhance managers’ and leaders’ skills a programme on Between Leadership Surveys many business areasconduct surveys of
ethical decisionmaking was run in 2005, attended by479people. all employees to gauge levels of engagement, satisfaction and
Further training in this area is planned for 2006. motivation. Each business and function has developed action plans
to address areas for improvement based on results from the GLS and
The PDP process includes an assessment of how well employees have
these other surveys.
implemented the GSK Spirit – the principles used to define the Group’s
culture. This can have a significant impact on bonus payments, The Group also consults employees on changes that affect them and
potentially reducing them to zero if an employee is found not to have discusses developments in the businesses with the European
followed the Spirit, and can also affect future career development. In Employee Forum and similar committees incountrieswhere this is
this way the Group holds employees accountable for delivering nationalpractice.
performance with high standards of integrity to protect and enhance
Health and well-being
GSK’s reputation.
Healthy employees and healthy ways of working contribute toGSK’s
Diversity sustained performance. Global policies on Employee Health are
The GSK diversity initiative focuses on improving performance by supported by mandatory standards that integrate employee health
responding to the diverse needs of employees, customersand external and safety and environmental requirements. These standards are
stakeholders. At the third annual Multicultural Marketing and Diversity applied to all the Group’s facilities and operations worldwide.
Awards, 60 entrants from the USA, UK and Continental Europe
A commitment to flexible working through flexi-time, tele-
highlighted innovative activities that demonstrated business impact.
conferencing, remote working and flexible work schedules, recognises
In 2005, the global management population was64.5%maleand
that employees work best in an environment that helps them integrate
35.5% female. For more details on diversity measures, see the
their work and personal lives.During 2005 the Group’s Employee
Employment Practices section of the Corporate Responsibility report.
Health Management function won Personnel Today’sManaging Health
at Work awardin the UK in recognition of its impact in promoting a
healthy workplace.
GSK Annual Report 2005
16
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessGlobal manufacturing and supply
GSK has a large portfolio of products, ranging from tablets and New product and global supply
toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over 28,000 different New product and global supply focuses on ensuring that the
pack sizes and presentations. appropriate technical competencies exist to support rapid and
successful new product introduction. It works closely with R&D’s
Manufacture of medicines begins with the development of a
development team to do this. It also ensures secure supply of the key
therapeutic active ingredient (bulk active) in a selected formulation.
brands that are sold across many markets and have global distribution.
Global Manufacturing and Supply (GMS) develops manufacturing
This division is the focal point for developing and introducing new
processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at
secondary manufacturing technologies for GMS.It co-ordinates with
primary manufacturing sites. Converting active compounds into a
Primary supply operations to ensure alignment between the two
finished dosage formulation is the responsibility of the secondary
divisions and a full value stream approach to introducing new
manufacturing sites.
products. There are eight sites in six countries in New product and
GMS operates as a single global network of 80 sites in 37 countries. global supply.
Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk actives and
Operational excellence
over four billion packs, which are packaged and delivered for sale in
GMShas developed a set of measures and a uniform way of working
over 160 countries. Throughout the world it also supports about
to drive business improvement. These activities are mainly focused on
2,000 new product and line extension launches a year.
increasing the quality of products supplied to customers. Extensive
By adopting leading edge practices and developing its people GMS leadership education has been carried out to reinforce a culture of
expects to derive benefits from: continuous improvement, with staff involved in solving problems in a
rigorous, controlled and structured way. All this has provided the
•a secure source of supply of high quality products
capability to improve significantly performance, and to accelerate
•compliance with regulatory requirements and customer expectations
delivery of benefits across the manufacturing network.
•best in class cost.
Since the formation of GSK, merger rationalisation and operational
Organisation excellence initiatives have reduced the number of manufacturing sites
by 35 (30%).
Supply divisions
There are foursupply divisions, with sites grouped together based External suppliers
upon common business drivers, areas of expertise and the commercial Manufacturing spends over £2 billion with many external suppliers
activities that they support. These four divisions are described below: every year, including on the purchase of active ingredients, chemical
intermediatesandpart-finished and finished products. GMS takes
Primary supply andAntibiotics
appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any disruption
Primary supply and Antibiotics focuses on ensuring the supply of high
resulting from interrupted external supply through appropriate stock
quality and competitively priced bulk actives and on driving
levels, contracting and alternative registered suppliers.
improvements in primary technologies and processes. It also supports
the delivery of maximum value from the antibiotics franchise through Vaccines supply chain
a combined primary and secondary approach to cost competitive In Europe, vaccine manufacturing is located primarily at Rixensart and
supply and response to market opportunities and customer needs. Wavre in Belgium, with three other sites in France, Germany and
There are 17 sites in eight countries in Primary supply andAntibiotics. Hungary. In 2005, GSK strengthened its global production network
in North America through three major acquisitions: US based Corixa
Consumer Healthcare supply
Corporation, which produces an important component in many of
Consumer Healthcare supply focuses on delivering high quality,
GSK’s vaccines under development, a vaccine production site in
competitivelyproduced products and offering the capability for rapid
Marietta, Pennsylvania and ID Biomedical with flu vaccine
new product introduction in a highly innovative and competitive
manufacturing facilities in Canada. In Asia, new vaccine production
business which has far shorter time frames than pharmaceuticals.
facilities are being built in India and Singapore. GSK’s vaccine division
New technologies have become a fundamental platform for lowering
also hastwo joint ventures in China and Russia.Managing the vaccine
costs and providing flexibility in operations. There are 24 sites in 17
supply chain involves anticipating market needs and using a flexible
countries in Consumer Healthcare supply.
approach to be able to meet fluctuations in demand. These are based
Regional pharma supply on forecasts from the different markets and firm orders from health
Regional pharma supply focuses on several key activities, the supply authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
of products that are key in one or more regions, the supply of products
Bulk, filling and packaging are carefully balanced and stocking of
that are important in a particular market and the tailoring of
vaccines helps manage short-term increases in demand. Such
packaging to meet specific local requirements. A key focus for the
increasesresult fromdisease outbreaks or increased demand from
regional pharma supply team is on reducing costs so that GSK can
the public owing to disease awareness campaigns.
compete more effectively in all its markets. There are 31 sites in 23
countries in Regional pharma supply.
GSK Annual Report 2005
17
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessCorporate responsibility and community investment
Commit to corporate responsibility In the UK, GSK contributed £4 million in 2005 to its continuing
corporate programme of charitable activities supporting over 80
GSK is committed to connecting business decisions to ethical, social
organisations in health, medical research, science education, the arts
and environmental concerns. Thus, corporate responsibility is an
and the environment. In addition, Group companies in the UK
integral and embedded part of the way GSK does business.
provided a further £8 million for charitablepurposes.
In 2003, GSK published a set of Corporate Responsibilityprinciples to
Corporate programmes in North America focused on improving
provide guidance on the standards to which the Group is committed.
public education and access to better healthcare for children and
This sets out the approach to ten areas: standards of ethical conduct,
seniors with funding ofalmost £8million.In addition,the Group’s
research and innovation, products and customers, access to
US-based businesses donated£14millionto regional community
medicines, employment practices, human rights, community
activities.
investment, caring for the environment, leadership and advocacy, and
engagement with stakeholders. The Groupreports annually on GSK does not operate a single charitable foundation for its community
progress in upholding these principles in its Corporate Responsibility investment programmes, but has a number of country based
Report, which is available on the website at www.gsk.com. foundations. The grants made by these foundations in 2005 are
included in the investment total.
Partnership success
GSK works as a partner with under-served communities in the Global Health Programmes
developed and developing world. It supports programmes that are Eliminating lymphatic filariasis
innovative and sustainable and that bring real benefits to these The Group’s effort to help rid the world of the disabling disease,
communities. The Group engages with numerous external lymphatic filariasis (LF), continued in close partnership with the
stakeholders, funds community-led initiatives around the world and governments ofcountrieswhere the disease is endemic, the WHO
donates medicines to support humanitarian efforts and community and over 40 partner organisations. GSK is committed to donate as
based healthcare. much of the anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required to treat the
one billion people at risk in 80 countries by 2020. In 2005, 136
Community investment
million albendazole treatments, worth over £14million at wholesale
GSK’s global community investment activities in 2005 were valued acquisition cost, were donated to 36 countries. Since the global
at £380million, equivalent to5.6% of Group profit before tax. This elimination programme started in 2000, a cumulative total of 442
comprised product donations of £296million, cash giving of £61 million albendazole treatments have been donated and the
million, other in-kind donations of £2 million and costs of £21 programme is now reaching over 100 million people. During 2005,
million to manage and deliver community programmes in more than GSK opened a new $3 million manufacturing facility in Cape Town,
100 countries. South Africa to produce albendazole.
Product donations and cash giving in 2005 were as follows: Positive Action on HIV/AIDS
Positive Action is GSK’s pioneering global programme working with
1. Productdonations
communities affected by AIDS. Started in 1992, it supports
community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS
education, prevention and healthcare services. During 2005,Positive
Action worked with 29 partners to support programmes in 30
countries. The programme also supported the participation of
community involvement at regional and international AIDS
conferences.
The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership
Since 2002, this partnership has supported three behavioural
GSK’s cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education development programmes working in eight African countries. The
initiatives. programmes are targeting nearly two million people and focus
particularly on young children and pregnant women, encouraging
2. Breakdown of cash giving
effective prevention measures, prompt treatment and antenatal
malaria management. Extending this programme in 2005, the Group
announced a three-year grant of £900,000 to the Malaria
Consortium for a new initiative ‘Mobilising for Malaria’. Through
increased and sustained advocacy activities in the UK, Europe and
African countries, the programme aims to increase awareness of
malaria and mobilise resources.
GSK Annual Report 2005
18
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of business
3
2
1 Patient Assistance Programs
£255 million
2 Albendazole for LF
£14 million
3 Humanitarian Product Donations
£27 million
1
5
1 Health (40%)
4 1 2 Education (35%)
3
3 Arts and Culture (3%)
4 Environment (1%)
5 Other (21%)
2Corporate responsibility and community investment
continued
PHASE Education initiatives
The PHASE initiative (Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education), GSK’s efforts to improve public and science education included a
initiated by GSK in 1998, is now providing education to thousands three-year grant of $300,000 to the National Board for Professional
of school children in Kenya, Uganda,Zambia, Nicaragua and Peru Teaching Standards to increase the number of science teachers
to improve their health and hygiene to fight infectious diseases. In pursuing certification in the North Carolina and Philadelphia areas.
2005 the Group committed three year funding of £300,000 to
During 2005 GSK led a group of companies to come together to
extend the programme to Bangladesh in partnership with Save the
create the US Business Education Network (BEN). BEN is a new
Children, USA.
business coalition staffed by the Center for Corporate Citizenship of
Humanitarian product donations the US Chamber of Commerce, and is dedicated to harnessing the
During 2005,GSK donated essential products,such as antibiotics, power of the business community to address issues facing the US
through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, MAP International education system.
and Project HOPE, to support humanitarian relief efforts and
GSK continued to support the Innovative Scheme for Post-docs in
community healthcare. In December 2004,medicines donated by the
Research and Education (INSPIRE), developed in partnership with
Groupwere among the first to be shipped to support the south Asia
Imperial College London and the Specialist Schools and Academies
tsunamirelief efforts. In 2005,GSK continued to donate these life-
Trust, with a £1 million donation over four years. INSPIRE places
saving medicines to tsunami-affected countries and to those affected
post-doctoral researchers in specialist science schools to assist with
by other disasters, including hurricanes in the USA.
science teaching.
In 2005 the total value of the Group’s international humanitarian
‘Science in the Summer’, a free library-based science education
product donations was£27million. This excludes albendazole donated
programme in the Philadelphia area teaching basic scientific concepts,
as part of the Group’s commitment to the lymphatic filariasis
continued to receive support with a grant of $300,000. Science Across
elimination programme. Product donations are valued at wholesale
the Worldisan award-winninginternational education programme
acquisition cost which is the wholesale list price, not including
that uses web-based resources to promote discussion of science issues
discounts, and is a standard industry method.
between 3,600 teachers, 100,000 children and schools in more than
Community initiatives 115 countries. A further grant of £110,000 was made in 2005
GSK is dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities where bringingGSK’s total contribution to this programmeto£670,000 over
we live and work through providing health and education initiatives five years.
and support for local civic and cultural institutions that improve the
Employee involvement
quality of life.
GSK employees are encouraged to contribute to their local
GSK’s contribution to improve healthcare includes a new grant of communities through employee volunteering schemes. Support
$2.65 million over three years to the Children’s Health Fund to expand varies around the world, but includes employee time, cash
their Referral Management Initiative (RMI) to sites in Philadelphia, donations to charities where employees volunteer and a matching
including the Delaware Valley Community Health Center. The RMI gifts programme.
ensures continuity of specialistmedical care for high-risk children who
In 2005 in the USA, the Group matched more than20,000employee
are often homeless.
and retiree gifts at a value ofover$5million. The Group also matched
The annual Impact Awards recognise excellence in the work of non- more than $1.3 million of employee donations to GSK’s annual
profit community health organisations across the UK and in the United Way campaign. GSK’s GIVE program provided grants of over
Greater Philadelphia area of the USA. Over 20 charities receive $300,000 to more than 350 organisations where US employees have
unrestricted awards for their work dealing with diverse issues such as volunteered.
domestic and community violence, sexual health services for young
GSK’s Making a Difference programme in the UK provided grants of
peopleand bereavement and counselling services.
almost £300,000 to over 440 non-profit organisationsandregistered
To further medical research, over £470,000 was provided to four UK charities based on employee involvement.
medical charities, The Alzheimer’s Research Trust, The British Liver
Trust, Meningitis UK and The Samantha Dickson Research Trust for
childhood brain tumours.
As part of GSK’s support for the arts, the Group sponsored the popular
‘Gardens of Glass: Chihuly at Kew‘, an innovative exhibition of the
work of Dale Chihuly, the contemporary glass artist, at the Royal
Botanic Gardens, KewnearLondon.
GSK Annual Report 2005
19
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessProducts and competition
Pharmaceutical products Anti-virals
Combivir, a combination of Retrovirand Epivir, has consolidated the
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products are currently
position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the
directed to nine therapeutic areas. An analysis of sales by these
cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens. Physician
therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are
acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on minimising
setout below:
the pill burden faced by patients.
2005 2004 2003 Ziagenis a reverse transcriptase inhibitor. The product’s potency, ease
Turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
of use and resistance profile allow it to play a significant role in a
Respiratory 5,054 4,394 4,390
variety of highly active, well tolerated andsimplified HIV treatment
Central nervous system 3,219 3,462 4,446
regimens.
Anti-virals 2,598 2,359 2,345
Anti-bacterials/anti-malarials 1,519 1,547 1,800 Triziviris a combination of Combivirand Ziagen, combining three anti-
Metabolic 1,495 1,251 1,077 HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Vaccines 1,389 1,194 1,121
Epzicom/Kivexa, approved for use in the USA and Europe, is a
Oncology and emesis 1,016 934 1,000 combination of Epivirand Ziagenthat is taken as one tablet with
Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,331 932 770
once-daily dosing for HIV/AIDS in combination with at least one other
Other 1,040 1,027 1,165
anti-HIV drug.
18,661 17,100 18,114
Lexiva/Telziris a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIVthat is
well tolerated and more convenient than Agenerase which it
Sales in 2005 were8%higher in CER termsand 9%in sterling terms
supersedes. Lexiva may be taken twice daily or once daily when
than in 2004.
boosted with ritonavir.
Products and all their formulations may not be approved for all
Zeffixhas been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China and
indications in all markets where they are available.
other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
Respiratory
Valtrexis a treatment for episodic genital herpes as well as the long
Seretide/Advair, a combination of Sereventand Flixotide, offers along-
term suppression and reduction of transmission of genital herpes,
acting bronchodilator and an anti-inflammatory in a single inhaler. It
zoster (shingles), cold sores and chicken pox. Valtrex supersedes
is approved for the treatment of asthma and COPD.
Zovirax, which is also used to treat herpes infections.
Flixotide/Floventand Becotide/Becloventare inhaled steroids for the
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
treatment of inflammation associated with asthma and COPD.
Augmentinis a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the treatment
Sereventis a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is particularly
COPD, and Ventolinis a selective short-acting bronchodilator used to effective against respiratory tract infections. Augmentin ES-600is an
treat bronchospasm. extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat children with
recurrent or persistent middle ear infections. Augmentin XRis an extra
Flixonase/Flonaseand Beconaseare steriod intra-nasal preparations for
strength tablet form for adults to combat difficult to treat infections.
the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
Zinnatis an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-acquired
Central nervous system (CNS)
infections of the lower respiratory tract.
Seroxat/Paxilis a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) for the
treatment of depression, panic, obsessive compulsive disorder, post Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and
traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder, premenstrual prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
dysphoric disorderand generalised anxiety disorder.
Lapdapis an effective and well tolerated therapy for the treatment of
Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA and some malaria, which has been developed through a public/private
international markets in normal, sustained-release (SR) and once daily collaboration.
formulations.
Imigran/Imitrexis a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment
ofsevere or frequent migraine and cluster headacheand has become
the reference product in this sector. Naramig/Amergeis a newer
migraine product.
Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is now also
indicated for bipolar disorder.
Requipis a specific dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist indicated for
the treatment ofParkinson’s disease and is the first approved product
for Restless Leg Syndrome (RLS).
GSK Annual Report 2005
20
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessProducts and competition
continued
Metabolic Oncology and emesis
Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with
underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes. chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in
bothoral and injectable forms. It is also approved for use in the
Avandametis a combination of Avandiaand metformin HCI; it is the
prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
first medicine that targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose
production in one convenient pill. Hycamtinis a second line treatment both for ovarian cancer and
forsmall cell lung cancer.
Avandarylis a fixed-dosed combination of Avandiaand Amaryl, a
Sanofi-Aventis product. Bexxar is a treatment for patients with CD20 follicular, non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma with and without transformation whose
Bonviva/Boniva is a once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the
disease is refractory to rituximab and who have relapsed following
treatment of osteoporosis. It was launched in the USA and several
chemotherapy.
EU markets in 2005.
Cardiovascular and urogenital
Vaccines
Coregis an alpha/beta blocker which has been proven to be effective
GSK markets over 25 vaccines worldwide. In GSK’s hepatitis vaccines
intreating patients with mild, moderate and severe heart failure, heart
range, Havrix protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-B against
attack or hypertension. GSK has sole marketing rights in the USA and
hepatitis B.
Canada. Generic versions of the product are available in Canada.
Twinrixis the only available combined hepatitis A and B vaccine,
Levitrais a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction.
protecting against both diseases with one vaccine and available in
GSK has co-promotion rights in the USA and more than 20 other
both adult and paediatric strengths. In 2005, GSK received European
markets.
approval for Fendrix, a vaccine to prevent hepatitis B in patients with
renal insufficiency including high-risk groups such as pre- Avodartis a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic
haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients, from 15 years of age hyperplasia. A large clinical outcome study is underway examining its
onwards. efficacy in the prevention of prostate cancer.
Fluarixis indicated for prevention of certain types of influenza. It is Arixtra and Fraxiparine were acquired in 2004 as part of the
distributed in 79 countries and was approved in the USA in 2005. divestitures required for the merger of Sanofiand Aventis.
Fluarixis the first vaccine to receive FDA approval under the agency’s
Arixtra, a selective Factor Xa inhibitor, is indicated for the prophylaxis
accelerated approval regulations.
of deep vein thrombosis, which may lead to pulmonary embolism, in
Infanrixis GSK’s range of paediatric vaccine combinations. Infanrix hip fracture surgery, knee replacement, hip replacement surgeryand
provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis abdominal surgery. It is also indicated for the treatment of deep vein
(whooping cough). Infanrix PeNta/Pediarix provides additional thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.
protection against hepatitis B and polio, and Infanrix hexafurther
Fraxiparine is a low-molecular weight heparin indicated for
adds protection against Haemophilus influenzae type b, which is a
prophylaxis of thromboembolic disorders (particularly deep vein
cause of meningitis. In 2005, GSK launched Boostrixin the USA, a
thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) in general surgery and in
vaccine that adds protection against pertussis (whooping cough) to
orthopedic surgery, treatment of deep vein thrombosis and
the routine tetanus/diptheria booster administered to teenagers.
prevention of clotting during hemodialysis.
GSK also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and rubella vaccine,
Integrilin is a GP IIb-IIIa inhibitor, approved in the EU for the
Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid fever, and Varilrix,
prevention of early myocardial infarction in patients with unstable
a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox. In addition, the Group
angina or non-Q-wave MI.
markets a range of vaccines to prevent meningitis under the
umbrella name Mencevax. GSK recently received approval in the Other
UK for a new Hib-MenC vaccine, Menitorix. GSK’s meningitis This category includes Betnovate, thehigher potency Dermovateand
vaccine portfolio wil be complimented by new meningitis conjugate the newer Cutivate, which are anti-inflammatory steroid products
vaccines in the near future. used to treat skin diseases suchas eczema and psoriasis, Relafen, a
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for the treatment of arthritis,
As part of its paediatric franchise, GSK has also developed a vaccine
and Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range
against rotavirus induced gastroenteritis. Since its launch in Mexico in
ofgastric acid related disorders.
2005, Rotarix has been licensed in several additional countries
worldwide among them a number of Latin American countries
including Brazil, with thePhilippines and Singapore being the first
Asian countries.
GSK Annual Report 2005
21
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessProducts and competition
continued
Pharmaceuticals competition Anti-virals
GSK is a pioneer in the HIV market, launching AZT (Retrovir) in 1987
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. GSK’s principal
and Epivirin 1995, which today are available as Combivirin a single
competitorsrange from small tolarge international pharmaceutical
tablet, a cornerstone of HIV combination therapy. The launches of
companies with substantial resources. Some of these companies and
Ziagen, Agenerase, Trizivir, Lexiva and Epzicom have broadened
their major products are mentioned below.
theGroup’s portfolio of HIV products. Major competitors in the HIV
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other products market include Gilead, Bristol Myers Squibb, Abbott, Merck and Pfizer.
during the period of patent protection and, once off patent, from
Valtrexhas strengthened the Group’s position in the anti-herpes area,
generic versions. The manufacturers of generic products typically
where GSK’s Valtrex and Zovirax compete with Novartis’ Famvir.
donot bear significant research and development or education and
Valtrexis the market leader,whilst Zoviraxfaces competition from
marketing development costs and consequently areable to offer their
generic acyclovir. In the hepatitis B market, GSK’s Zeffixwas the first
products at considerably lower prices than thebranded competitors.
anti-viral on the market. Gilead’s Hepsera was the second. The Group
A research and development based pharmaceutical company will
has secured marketing rights to Hepserain some key markets.
normally seek to achieve a sufficiently high profit margin and sales
volume during the period of patent protection to repay the original Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research forthe Generic versions of both Augmentinand Ceftin/Zinnatare available
future. Competition from generic products generally occurs as patents in the USA. Augmentinalso faces generic competition in various
in major markets expire. Increasingly patent challenges are made prior European countries. Augmentin XR and Augmentin ES compete
to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent is not valid and/or against a broad range of other branded and generic antibiotics.
that it is not infringed by the generic product. Following loss of patent Malarone’s safety profile and convenient dosing regimen have
protection, generic products rapidly capture a large share of the helped put this product in a strong position versus mefloquine for
market, particularly in the USA. malaria prophylaxis.
GSK believes that remaining competitive is dependent upon the Metabolic
discovery and development of new products, together with effective The major competitor for Avandiais Takeda Chemical’s Actos, which
marketing of existing products. Within the pharmaceutical industry, is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA.
the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may
Monthly Boniva/Bonvivacompetes with Merck’s weekly Fosamax and
affect pricing levels or result in changing patterns of product use.
Proctor & Gamble/Sanofi-Aventis’s weekly Actonel. Generic Fosamax
There can be no assurance that productswillnot become outmoded,
(alendronate) is available in a few markets such as the UK and Canada.
notwithstanding patent or trademark protection. In addition,
increased government and other pressures for physicians and Vaccines
patients to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name The vaccine market is dominated by four key players. GSK’s major
medicines, may increase competition for products that are no longer competitors include SanofiPasteur (SP), Merck and Wyeth. In the
protected by patent. hepatitis market, Engerix-B and Havrix compete with vaccines
produced by SP and Merck – respectively Comvax and Recombivax HB
Respiratory
for hepatitis B, and Vaqta and Avaxim for hepatitis A. Within the
GSK’s respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of Seretide/Advair,
paediatric vaccine field, Infanrix’smain competitor is SP’s range of
gaining patients from competitor products and the cannibalisation of
DTPa-based combination vaccines, although the Infanrix hexa
Sereventand Flixotide/Flovent. Major respiratory competitors are
combination is the only available hexavalent paediatric combination
Singulair from Merck, especially in the USA and in Europe, Symbicort
in Europe.
from AstraZeneca and Spiriva from Pfizer/ Boehringer Ingelheim.
Oncology and emesis
CNS disorders
Zofranpresently provides GSK with a leadership position in the anti-
Major competitors in the USA to Paxilare its generic forms, as well
emetic market where competitor companies include Roche, Sanofi-
as generic fluoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lilly’s Prozac, Zoloft from
Aventis and more recently MGI and Merck. Major competitors in the
Pfizer, Forest Laboratories’ Celexa and Lexapro, and Effexor from
diverse cytotoxic market include Bristol Myers Squibb, Sanofi-Aventis,
Wyeth. The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrin are
Pfizer and Novartis. GSK’s cytotoxic portfolio, led by Hycamtin,
generic forms of bupropion, the generic forms of SSRIs and Effexor
currently holds a relatively small market position.
XR, a Wyeth product. Paxil CR and the once-daily Wellbutrin XLhelp
to retain a strong presence in the anti-depressant market, given the Cardiovascular and urogenital
availability of both generic paroxetine and bupropion in the USA. GSK markets Coregin the USA where its major competitors are Toprol
Generic competition for Seroxat/Paxilhas also commenced in the XL and generic betablockers. Avodartcompetes directly with Merck’s
UK and a number of other markets. Proscar within the BPH market. The Group has co-promotion rights
in the USA for Levitra, which faces competition from Pfizer’s Viagra
and Lilly/Icos’ Cialis.
GSK Annual Report 2005
22
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessProducts and competition
continued
Consumer Healthcare products Oral care
The leading Oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal consumer healthcare products are in three
under the Aquafresh, Sensodyne, Macleansand Odolbrand names,
major areas. An analysis of sales by these areas isset out below:
and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafreshand Dr Best
names. In addition, denture care products are available principally
2005 2004 2003
under the Polident, Poligripand Coregabrand names.
£m £m £m
Nutritional healthcare
OTC medicines 1,437 1,400 1,472
Oral care 943 913 915 The leading products in this category are Lucozadeglucose energy
Nutritional healthcare 619 573 569 and sports drinks, Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink rich in
vitamin C, and Horlicks, a range of milk-based malted food and
2,999 2,886 2,956
chocolate drinks.
In 2005 sales were2%higher in CER terms and 4% higher in sterling
Consumer Healthcare competition
terms than in 2004.
GSKholds leading global positions in all its key consumer product
Major products,which are not necessarily sold in all markets,are:
areas. Worldwide it is the third largest in Oral care and in OTC
Category Product medicines. In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading position in
the UK, India and Ireland.
Over-the-counter medicines
Analgesics Panadol The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business
Dermatologicals Zovirax operates has become ever more challenging:
Abreva
•consumers are demanding better quality, better value and improved
Gastro-intestinal Tums
performance
Citrucel
Respiratory tract Contac •retailers have consolidatedandglobalisedwhich hasstrengthened
Beechams their negotiation power
Smoking control Commit
•competitors are finding conditions equally challenging and
Nicorette
competing more aggressively across all elements of the marketing
NicoDerm CQ
mix
NiQuitin CQ
Nicabate CQ •cycle times for innovation have been reduced.
Natural wellness support Abtei
The main competitors include the major international companies
Oral care Aquafresh
Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Procter & Gamble,
Dr Best
Unilever and Wyeth. In addition, there are many other companies
Macleans
that compete withGSKin certain markets.
Odol
Odol Med 3 The major competitor products in OTC medicines are:
Polident
•in the USA: Metamucil (laxative), Pepcid (indigestion) and private
Poligrip
label smoking control products
Sensodyne
•in the UK: Lemsip (cold remedy), Nurofen and Anadin (analgesics),
Nutritional healthcare Lucozade
and Nicorette and Nicotinell (smoking control treatments).
Ribena
Horlicks In Oral care the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolive’s Colgate
and Procter & Gamble’s Crest.
Over-the-counter medicines
In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicksare Ovaltine
The leading products are Panadol, a widely available paracetamol/
and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. The competitors to
acetominophen analgesic,Nicorettegum in the USA,the NicoDerm,
Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Lucozade
NiQuitin CQ and Nicabaterange of smoking control products,Tums,
competes with other energy drinks.
a calcium-based antacid,Citrucellaxative,Contacfor the treatment
of colds,Abtei, a natural medicines and vitamin range,and Zovirax
and Abrevafor the treatment of cold sores.
GSK Annual Report 2005
23
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessRegulatory environment
Regulation – Pharmaceuticals Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France,
Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
GSK operates within a highly regulated environment. Regional and
country-specific laws and regulations define the data required to show In the USA, recent legislation on healthcare reform, cross-border
safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products, as well as govern trade, the acceleration of generics to market and increased patient
testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of drugs. contributions have further increased the focus on pricing. Currently,
These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining there are no government price controls over private sector
whether a marketable product may be successfully developed and purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers
the amount of time and expense associated with this development. to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs in order to be eligible for
reimbursement under Medicaid and other federal healthcare
In Europe, pharmaceutical firms and regulators are managing a
programmes.
transition following the implementation of new medicines legislation
at the end of 2005. Significant changes are being implemented in a Medicare
number of areas,including approval procedures, post marketing In 2006, the US Medicare program, a federally funded healthcare
requirements, manufacturing controls (on active ingredients and insurance program benefiting senior citizens and certain disabled
excipients), labelling requirements, pharmacovigilance processesand Americans, included coverage for prescription medicines. This is a
an increased emphasis in involvement and availability of information new benefit under the Medicare program and the most dramatic
for patients in the EU. change in the program since its inception in the 1960s. The coverage
is voluntary, includes brand-name and generic drugsand is open to
The climate of change will continue, with the expectation that a new
the 41 million Americans with Medicare coverage.
Paediatric Regulation will be finalised in 2006, stimulating industry
research into paediatric indications, via intellectual property incentives. A number of competing private organisations provide the new benefit
with premiums subsidised by the government. Benefits must satisfy
The European Medicines Agency (EMEA) has published the final
a minimum standard outlined in federal law. While the law provides
version of its ‘Road Map’, a strategic plan to 2010. This will be an
incentives for manufacturers to negotiate prices withprivate plans, it
additional driver for change, covering areas such as new technologies,
does not provide for government price controls. The government
innovative development approaches and enhanced provision of
provides additional help to more than 14 million peopleonMedicare
agency advice during the development process.
with limited incomes and resources. Those qualifying beneficiaries
In the USA, safety issues of prescription drugs are a primary focus of pay no or reduced premiums and deductibles, and low copayments
the FDA and congressional oversight committees since the recent for their prescriptions.
withdrawal of several products from the market for safety reasons.
Value for money
GSK is working closely with the FDA to assess any impact this will
It isincreasingly necessary to demonstrate the value for money of
have on any of its own current development programmes. Asin
new products. In particular,the impact on drug budget expenditure
Europe, evaluation of benefit and risk continues to be an important
and the burden of the disease that will be treatedmust be apparent.
consideration for approval of a new drug by the FDA.
In some markets, this requirement to satisfy healthcare purchasers as
The FDAhas introduced a new focus called the Critical Path Initiative.
to value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for product
This is intended tofacilitateinnovation in drug development, hopefully
acceptance over and above the regulatory tests ofsafety, efficacy and
allowing for more rapid development and approval of needed
quality. This may delay bringing effective and improved medicines to
medicines. This initiative will investigate the use of pharmacogenomics
the market and reduce their effective patent protection time.
and surrogate markers of efficacy, among other things, such as
manufacturing innovations, as tools for rapidly developing and In many markets, especially in the USA and Europe, it is becoming
producing safe and effective drugs for unmet medical needs. The more difficult for even a significantly improved therapy to obtain a
pharmaceutical industry, including GSK, are collaborating with the premium price over existing medication. Value-based pricing may be
FDA and National Institutes of Health in a number of these areas, difficult to apply in such circumstances, although in the USA it is still
including the use of biomarkers. possible to price products to reflect their value. It is not possible to
predict whether, and to what extent, the Group’sbusiness will be
A new health information source has been launched by the US
affected by future legislative and regulatory developments relating to
government that includes electronic labelling of all approved
specific pharmaceutical products or their price.
prescription drugs, posted within one day of an FDA approval action,
for immediate accessbyphysicians and patients. GSKis now providing
Regulation – Consumer Healthcare
labellingto theFDAfor all products in this new electronic format. New
regulations from the FDA will be implemented mid-2006 that will The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation for
completely change the format of prescribing information in the USA. the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of
products. In many countries, high standards of technical appraisal
GSK is well placed to manage effectively these changes in the external
involve a lengthy approval process before a new product is launched.
regulatory environment.
National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the switch
Price controls
of products from prescription to OTC. The requirements include long-
In manycountries the prices of pharmaceutical products are controlled
term experience of the quality, safety and efficacy of the product in a
by law. Governments may also influence prices through their control
wide patient population and data to confirm that the relevant
of national healthcare organisations, which may bear a large part of
condition is both self-limiting and easily diagnosed by the consumer.
the cost of supplying products to consumers.
GSK Annual Report 2005
24
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessRegulatory environment
continued
Intellectual property Paxil/Seroxat. The patent on the commercial form of paroxetine is not
due to expire until 2007c(USA) and 2006 (Europe). Litigation relating
Intellectual property is a key business asset for GSK. The effective legal
to the validity and infringement of the patents protecting this product
protection of intellectual property is critical in ensuring a reasonable
is ongoing in the USAe. Generic competition has commenced in the
return on investment in R&D. Intellectual property can be protected
USA, Europe and certain other markets. Paxil CRis protected by a
by patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain
formulation patent that is not due to expire until 2012.A generic
name registrations. Patent and trademark rights are regarded as
manufacturer has applied for FDA approval of a generic form of Paxil
particularly valuable.
CR asserting non-infringement of this patente.
In many cases generic manufacturers launch, or attempt to launch,
Requip. The patent on ropinirole is not due to expire until 2007a(USA)
generic versions of patented drugs prior to normal patent expiry,
and 2008b(Europe). A patent relating to the use of ropinirole in
arguing that the relevant patents are invalid and/or are not
Parkinson’s disease is not due to expire until 2008 (USA) and 2011b
infringed by their product. Significant litigation concerning these
(Europe). Litigation challenging the validity of these patents is ongoing
challenges is summarised in Note41to theffinancial statements,
in the USAe.
‘Legal proceedings’.
Retrovir. There are no patents on zidovudine. Patents covering
Patents
pharmaceutical formulations containing zidovudine and their medical
GSK’s policy is to obtain patent protection on all significant products
use have expired in the USA and will expire in 2006 in Europe.
discovered or developed through its R&D activities. Patent protection
for new active ingredients is available in all significant markets. Seretide/Advair.The patent on the specific combination of salmeterol
Protection can also be obtained for new pharmaceutical formulations xinafoate and fluticasone propionate is not due to expire until 2010
and manufacturing processes, and for new medical uses and special (USA) and 2013b(Europe). An application for re-issue of the US patent
devices for administering products. has been filed by GSKewith the US Patent and Trademark Office
(USPTO). In January 2006, the USPTO issued a final office action
The patent position with respect to the active ingredients in significant
rejecting this application. GSK will seek reconsideration of this
products is as follows:
rejectione. The UK patent has been revoked by the UKcourts. Patents
Avandiaand Avandamet. The patent on rosiglitazone is not due to on the individual ingredients have expired in the UK. In the USA, the
expire until 2012a,c (USA) and 2013b (Europe). Patents on the patent on salmeterol xinafoate does not expire until 2008.
commercial form of the active ingredient rosiglitazone maleate are not
Serevent.The patent on salmeterol xinafoate is not due to expire until
due to expire until 2015 (USA) and 2014b (Europe). Litigation
2008 in the USA. In Europe, the patent has expired, except France
challenging the validity of the patents protecting these products is
(2008b) and Italy (2009b).
ongoing in the USAe.
Trizivir. The patent on the method of treatment using a combination
Avodart. The patent on dutasteride is not due to expire until 2015a
of lamivudine, zidovudine and abacavir does not expire until 2016
(USA) and 2017b(Europe).
(USA)and 2016 (Europe).
Combivir. The patent on the specific combination of lamivudine and
Valtrex. The patent on valaciclovir is not due to expire until 2009a
zidovudine is not due to expire until 2012 (USA) and 2013b(Europe).
(USA) and 2009b(Europe). Litigation challenging the validity of the
Coreg. GSK is the exclusive licensee under the US patent on carvedilol, patent protecting this product is ongoing in the USAe.
which is not due to expire until 2007a,c.
Wellbutrin SR, Wellbutrin XL andZyban.The patent on the active
Epivir. The patent on lamivudine is not due to expire until 2010a,c
ingredient has expired. There is now generic competition for the
(USA) and 2011b(Europe).
sustained release (SR)and instant release (IR) forms in the USA. In
Flixotide/Floventand Flixonase/Flonase. The patents on fluticasone Europe, regulatory data exclusively provides protection until 2009 in
propionate have expired in the EU and USA. Generic competition to some markets. In the USA, Wellbutrin XLis protected by formulation
Flixonaseexists in the EUand the FDA recently approved a generic patents that expire in 2018. Litigation relating to the validity and
version of Flonasein the USAe. infringement ofthese patents is ongoing in the USAe.
Imigran/Imitrex. The patent on sumatriptan is not due to expire until Ziagen. The patent on abacavir is not due to expire until 2012a,c(USA)
2009c (USA) and generally 2006b (Europe, except 2008b (Italy)). and 2014b(Europe).
Litigation challenging the validity of the patent protecting this product
Zofran. The patent on ondansetron has expired in the USA and
is ongoing in the USAe.
Europe, (except France (2007b) and Italy (2010b)). A patent on use in
Lamictal. The patent on lamotrigine is not due to expire until 2009a,c treating emesis expires in 2006. Litigation challenging the validity of
(USA). Litigation challenging the validity of this patent in the USA has the emesis use patent is ongoing in the USAe.
been settlede. In Europe, the corresponding patent has expired and
generic competition exists. a) Including patent term restoration under the Hatch-Waxman Act
b) Including extension of term by national or European supplementary protection
Levitrad. GSK has co-promotion rights under the USpatent on certificates
c) Including granted or pending extension of term for paediatric exclusivity
vardenafil which is not due to expire until 2018 in the USA.
d) A registered trademark of Bayer AG
e) See Note41tofinancial statements ‘Legal proceedings’.
Lexiva/Telzir. GSK is the exclusive licensee under the patent on
fosamprenavir, which is not due to expire until 2017 (USA) and 2019b
(Europe).
GSK Annual Report 2005
25
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessRegulatory environment
continued
Trademarks EHS management
All of GSK’s pharmaceutical products are protected by registered GSK takes a systematic approach to managing EHS risks and impacts.
trademarks in major markets. There may be local variations, for A framework of information and programmes based on the global
example,in the USA the trademark Paxilis used instead of Seroxat EHSstandards guides the management of key aspects, impacts and
and Advairis used instead of Seretide. risks throughout the organisation.
Trademark protection may generally be extended for as long as the EHS audits
trademark is used by renewing it when necessary. GSK’s trademarks As part of its governance responsibility, GSK conducts EHS audits of
on pharmaceutical products are important for maintaining the brand its sites, assessing performance against the EHSstandards and
identity of the product upon expiration of the patent. assigning quantitative performance scores. In 2005, when 36 sites
were audited, 70% of these achieved audit scores of 70% or better.
The Consumer Healthcare trademarks are particularly important, as
As part of the continuous improvement process, progress was
the business is very brand orientated and many products do not have
monitored on actions arising from issues raised on all audits.
patent protection.
As part of the commitment to corporate responsibility and the pro-
Responsibility for environment, health and safety active management of the GSK manufacturing and supply base, 41
suppliers were also assessed, representing about 20% of priority
Environment, health and safety (EHS)is a key element of corporate
suppliers. This process evaluated the management of key EHS risks
responsibility for the Group and has a high priority. Responsibility for
and impacts, as well as human rights issues, based on the Group’s
EHS is at the highest level. There is a corporate group reporting to
requirements for priority suppliers. Recommendations were made for
the General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing
improvements where needed.
governance and leadership on EHS issues. The head of this group
makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team (CET) and the EHStargets
Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board of As part of the EHS plan, targets are set every five years and 2005 is
Directors. Within the businesses, operations managers are the end of the first five-year target period. Targets were set for10
responsible for EHS and are supported by site-based EHS and environmental measures and for one measure of occupational health
occupational health staff. and safety.
EHS strategy and plan Progress towards meeting these targets has been tracked every year.
GSK has a strategic planning process for EHS that looks forward 10 Final data for 2005 showing the level of achievement of targets will
years but is reviewed every year. The plan is aligned with the GSK be published on the website www.gsk.com. Significant progress has
business drivers and includes both management and performance been made towards achievingeightof the 10 EHS targets with some
measures and targets. Progress has been made in all areas of the plan, of the progress due to outsourcing some processes to contract
with particular success in incorporating EHS into the selection and manufacturers. For hazardous waste disposed and the proportion of
management of contract manufacturers and key suppliers, in waste recycled, the targets have not been achieved.The targets have
developing and maintaining an open and effective dialogue with not been achieved because of products transferred to facilities without
external stakeholders, in providing EHSdata for decision making on appropriate recycling systems in place, other recycling systems that
new products and processes and in ensuring safety and health were down for maintenance and new products coming into
concerns are properly addressed at GSK’s facilities to minimise risk manufacturing.
and avoid disruption of product supply. Some areasforadditional
GSK selects its measures of performance improvement based on the
focusare driver safety, occupational chemical exposure, machine
potential for adverse impact on people or the environment, business
guarding, pharmaceuticals in the environment from patient excretion,
continuity or business reputation. Most of the measures selected are
energy conservation and the use of hazardous chemicals in
similar to those reported by other companies and are recommended
manufacturing.
by the Global Reporting Initiative, a long-term, multi-stakeholder,
Strategic focus in 2005 international undertaking to develop and disseminate globally
The plan provides an area of special focus each year. In 2005, the applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
focus was on completing core programmes. These programmes are
Sustainability
essential to prevent injury or illness or harm to the environment and
In the work towards eventual sustainability, GSK is addressing
to ensure the continuity of GSK’s business. Some of them will be
economic, environmental and social issues in research, manufacturing,
common to all operating locations. Operations with different risks
sales and distribution of its medicines. Sustainability starts with
may have different core needs and therefore different core
healthcare solutions found by R&D and continues with sustainable
programmes. For a programme to be complete it must have a
solutions in manufacturing and sales. R&D is considering improving
management system in place, acceptable audit scores and acceptable
operational efficiency for new products. In the future,the EHS plan
progress against the EHStargets.
for excellence proposes investigating the use of renewable resources
There is a need to operate and maintain the programmes, monitor and the overall balance of its impact on society and the environment.
their performance and continually look for improvements. Progress in The Group seeks dialogue with external stakeholders and considers
this strategic focus area may be seen in the audit scores and progress their views when developing approaches to sustainable development.
to targets. More information on EHS programmes and performance may be
found on the website.
GSK Annual Report 2005
26
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Description of businessGSK Annual Report 2005
27
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Corporate governance
This section discusses GlaxoSmithKline’s management structures
and governance procedures.
It contains the company’s reporting disclosures on corporate
governance required by the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance of the Financial Reporting Council (Combined Code),
including the required statement of compliance.
Further, the company reports on compliance with the USlaws and
regulations that apply to it.
The Board 28
Corporate Executive Team 29
Governance and policy 30
Dialogue with shareholders 31
Annual General Meeting 32
Internal control framework 33
Committee reports 34
The Combined Code 35
US law and regulation 36GSK Annual Report 2005
28
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Corporate governance
continued
The Board Dr Ronaldo Schmitz (Aged 67)
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Non-Executive Director. Dr Schmitz
Sir Christopher Gent (Aged 57)
was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is
Appointed on 1st June 2004. Chairman. Sir Christopher was the Chief
a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc and a member
Executive Officer of Vodafone plc, until his retirement in July 2003. He
of the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot
is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, a
Corporation.
member of the Financial Reporting Council,a Senior Adviser at Bain
&Co. and Chairman of the advisory board of Reform. Dr Lucy Shapiro (Aged 65)
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Non-Executive Director. Dr Shapiro
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier (Aged 58)
was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. She
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Chief Executive Officer. Dr Garnier
is Ludwig Professor of Cancer Research in the Department of
was appointed an Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in
Developmental Biology and Director of the Beckman Center for
1992, and became Chief Executive Officer in April 2000. He is a Non-
Molecular and Genetic Medicine at the Stanford University School of
Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation and a member
Medicine and a Non-Executive Director of Anacor Pharmaceuticals,
of the Board of Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships. He
Inc. She holds a PhD in molecular biology.
holds a PhD in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in
France and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA. Tom de Swaan (Aged 59)
Appointed on 1st January 2006. Non-Executive Director. Mr de Swaan
Lawrence Culp (Aged 42)
is a member of the Managing Board of ABN AMRO, of which he was
Appointed on 1st July 2003. Non-Executive Director. Mr Culp is
Chief Financial Officer until 31st December 2005. He will retire from
President and Chief Executive Officer of Danaher Corporation. Prior
the Board of ABNAMROon1st May 2006. He is a Non-Executive
to joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, previously
Director of the Financial Services Authority, a member of the Board
Andersen Consulting.
of the Institute of International Finance, Chairman of the Board of the
Sir Crispin Davis (Aged 56) Netherlands Opera and a member of the Board of the Royal
Appointed on 1st July 2003. Non-Executive Director. Sir Crispin is Concertgebouw Orchestra.
Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC. Prior to that, he was Chief
Sir Robert Wilson (Aged 62)
Executive of Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Guinness plc,
Appointed on 1st November 2003. Non-Executive Director. Sir Robert
where he was a member of the main board and Group Managing
is Non-Executive Chairman of BGGroup plc and the Economist Group
Director of United Distillers. He spent his early career with Procter &
and was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
Gamble.
Dr Tachi Yamada (Aged 60)
Julian Heslop (Aged 52)
Appointed on 1st January 2004. Retiring on 1st June 2006. Chairman,
Appointed on 1st April 2005. Chief Financial Officer. Mr Heslop joined
Research &Development. Dr Yamada was a Non-Executive Director,
Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998. In January 2001,
and subsequently an Executive Director, of SmithKline Beecham plc.
following the merger, he was appointed Senior Vice President,
Prior to joining SmithKline Beecham, he was Chairman of the
Operations Controller. Prior to joining Glaxo Wellcome, he held senior
Department of Internal Medicine at the University of Michigan Medical
finance roles at Grand Metropolitan PLC.
School and Physician-in-Chief of the University of Michigan Medical
Sir Deryck Maughan (Aged 58) Center. He is a Trustee of the Rockefeller Brothers Fundand a member
Appointed on 1st June 2004. Non-Executive Director. Sir Deryck is a of the Advisory Board of Quaker BioVentures, Inc.
Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &Co. He was formerly
Moncef Slaoui (Aged46)
Chairman and CEO of Citigroup International and of Salomon
Chairman Designate, Research &Development. Dr Slaoui, Senior Vice
Brothers Inc. He is a Non-Executive Director of Reuters Group plc,as
President, Worldwide Business Development, has been appointed to
well as serving on the Boards of Directors of Carnegie Hall, Lincoln
the Board with effect from 17th May 2006, and will succeed Dr
Center and NYUMedical Center. He is also an International Advisory
Yamada as Chairman, Research & Developmenton1st June 2006. Dr
Board member of British American Business Inc. and a Board member
Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the
ofthe Trilateral Commission. He served as Vice Chairman of the New
development of a robust vaccines pipeline. He has a PhD in Molecular
York Stock Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
Biology and Immunology from Université Libre de Bruxelles.
Sir Ian Prosser (Aged 62)
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Senior Independent Director. Sir Ian Other Directors
was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He Mr John Coombe, formerly Chief Financial Officer, retired from the
was Chairman and Chief Executive of Bass plc and ultimately Board on 31st March 2005.
Chairman of the demerged InterContinental Hotels Group plc. He
Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on
was Chairman of the World Travel andTourism Council and the
page31.
London Stock Exchange Listed Advisory Council. He is Non-Executive
Deputy Chairman of BP plc,a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee
Corporationanda member of the CBI President’s Committee.GSK Annual Report 2005
29
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Corporate governance
continued
Corporate Executive Team (CET) David Pulman
President, Global ManufacturingandSupply
JP Garnier
Dr Pulman is responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply
Chief Executive Officer
Organisation and Global Procurement. He joined Glaxo in 1978 and was
As Chief Executive Officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the
responsible for the North American supply network, manufacturing
management of the Group. He oversees all operational aspects of
strategy and logistics until his current appointment in 2002.
the Group, including establishing policies, objectives and initiatives,
and he directs long-term strategy. He was formerly Chief Executive David Stout
Officer of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990. President, Pharmaceutical Operations
Mr Stout is responsible forallpharmaceuticals and vaccinesoperations
Rupert Bondy
worldwide, including the USA, Europe, International, Japan and
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
GlobalManufacturingand Supply. He joined SmithKline Beecham in
Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, together
1996 and was President, USPharmaceuticals, until his current
with environmental, health and safety issues, insurance and security.
appointment in January 2003.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining SmithKline Beecham
in 1995. Chris Viehbacher
President, USPharmaceuticals
Ford Calhoun
Mr Viehbacher is responsible for US Pharmaceuticals. He joined
Chief Information Officer
Wellcome in 1988 and was responsible for GSK’s European
Dr Calhoun is responsible for information technology, a global
Pharmaceuticals business before his current appointmentin 2003.
function that enables key business processes across all parts of the
Group. With doctoral and post-doctoral training in microbiology, Andrew Witty
genetics, biomathematics and computer science, he joined Smith President, Pharmaceuticals Europe
Kline & French in 1984. Mr Wittyisresponsible for the Group’s pharmaceuticals operationsin
Europe. He joined Glaxo in 1985 andwas Senior Vice President, Asia
John Clarke
Pacific until his current appointmentin 2003.
President, Consumer Healthcare
Mr ClarkesucceededMrZiegler as President, Consumer Healthcare Tachi Yamada
on 31st January 2006.Hejoined Beecham in 1976 and progressed Chairman, Research & Development
through roles in Australasia, South Africa, The Far East, Japan, Canada Dr Yamada leads the Group’s complex business of drug discovery and
and the UK.From 1998 to 2003, John was President, Consumer development, creating new medicines through research. He joined
Healthcare Europe, and in 2004, appointed President, Futures Group. SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a Non-ExecutiveDirectorand became
Chairman, R&D Pharmaceuticals in 1999.
Marc Dunoyer
President, Pharmaceuticals Japan Jennie Younger
Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in March Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications &
2003. He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice President and Community Partnerships
Regional Director, Japan until his current appointment. Mrs Younger is responsible for the Group’s internal and external
communications, its image and partnerships with global communities.
Russell Greig
She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director of Investor Relations
President, Pharmaceuticals International
and was appointed to her current position in 2001.
Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA, Japan
and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries. He joined the Moncef Slaoui
Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Chairman Designate, Research & Development
Development for R&D prior to his current appointment in March Dr Slaoui will succeed Dr Yamada as Chairman, Research &
2003. Developmenton1st June. He will join the CET on 17th May. He joined
the Group in1988and is currently Senior Vice President, Worldwide
Julian Heslop
Business Development.
Chief Financial Officer
Mr Heslop became Chief Financial Officer on 1st April 2005. As head Other members
of the finance function Mr Heslop is responsible for activities such as Mr Coombe retired as Chief Financial Officer on 31st March 2005.
financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, investor relations, Mr Ziegler retired as head of theConsumer Healthcare business on
finance systems, internal audit and real estate. He joined Glaxo 31st January 2006.
Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
Mr Ingram continues to work part-time as Vice Chairman of
Dan Phelan Pharmaceuticals, acting as a special advisor to the Group and
Senior Vice President, Human Resources attending CET meetings in that capacity.
Mr Phelan is responsible for benefits, compensation, recruitment,
organisation development, leadership development and succession
planning, human resource information systems and employee health
management. He was a lawyer in private practice before joining Smith
Kline &French in 1981.Corporate governance
continued
Governance and policy The Board appraises and approves major financing, investment and
contractual decisions in excess of defined thresholds. In addition,the
The Board and Corporate Executive Team
Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a
The Directors are listed under ‘The Board’ (page28).
whole. This includes:
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate
•engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive
governance and is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities,
Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the financial
strategy and financial performance.
and operating performance of GSK and external issues material to
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is responsible for executive the Group’s prospects
management of the Group and is assisted by the CET. The CET meets
•evaluating progress toward the achievement of the Group’s financial
11 times per year and otherwise as necessary. The members and their
and business objectives and annual plans
responsibilities are listed under “Corporate Executive Team” (page
29). •monitoring, through reports received directly or from various
committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
The Board comprises three Executive and nine Non-Executive
Directors. Whilst the Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for the
be independent in character and judgement, it has determined that CEO and the other Executive Directors. The Board has given the CEO
one Non-Executive Director, Dr Shapiro, should not be considered as broad authority to operate the business of the Group,and the CEO
’independent’ under the Combined Code. Dr Shapiro is not is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, business performance.
considered to be independent due to the remuneration that she
CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their areas
receives from the Group as a member of the GlaxoSmithKline
of responsibility,and the Board meets with all the CET members on
Scientific Advisory Board. When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed
an annual basis to discuss collectively the Group’s strategy. A primary
to the Board as Deputy Chairman, he was determined by the Board
element of the induction process for new Non-Executive Directors is
to be independent. Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board
undertaken by members of the CET, and all Non-Executive Directors
on 1st January 2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he
are encouraged to have separate informal discussions at their
was excluded from the determination of whether at least half the
discretion with any CETmembers.
Board are independent Non-Executive Directors. Neither Dr Shapiro
nor Sir Christopher Gent hold positions on a Board Committee where The Board metsixtimes in 2005,with each member attending as
independence is required under the Combined Code. follows:
The Board considers that Mr Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Number of meetings Number of
Name held whilst a Board member meetings attended
Maughan, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz, Mr de Swaanand Sir Robert
Sir Christopher Gent 6 6
Wilson are independent in accordance with the recommendations of
Dr JPGarnier 6 6
the Combined Code.
Mr J Heslop 5 5
At the date of publication and throughout 2005, a majority of the Dr T Yamada 6 6
Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent Non- Mr L Culp 6 5
Executive Directors. Sir Crispin Davis 6 6
Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6
Sir Christopher Gent succeeded Sir Christopher Hogg on 1st January
Sir Ian Prosser 6 6
2005 and was Chairman throughout 2005. Dr Garnier is CEO. The
Dr R Schmitz 6 6
Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Board to the CEO and
Dr L Shapiro 6 6
other CET members as necessary between Board meetings. The CEO
Sir Robert Wilson 6 6
manages the Group and implements the strategy and policies
Mr JCoombe 1 1
adopted by the Board. The Chairman and the chairmen of Board
Committees communicate regularly with the CEO and other CET
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a
members. The division of responsibilities between the role of
quorate basis ontwooccasions.
Chairman and the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by the
Board and appears in full on the website.
Business environment development
Sir Ian Prosser was Senior Independent Director (SID) throughout To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important matters,
2005. including legal, governance and regulatory developments,
presentations are made on a regular basis by both external and
Board process
internal advisers.
The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for
ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and achieves the Independent advice
strategic objectives it sets. The Board discharges those responsibilities The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more
through an annual programme of meetings which includes the of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal and/or
approval of overall budgetary planning and business strategy.The financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an agreed
Board reviews the company’s internal controls and risk management procedure to enable them to do so. This is explained in the Corporate
policies and approves its governance structure and code of ethics. Governance section of the company’s website.
GSK Annual Report 2005
30
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
Indemnification of Directors Nominations Committee
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in section The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and
309B(1) of the Companies Act 1985) are in force for the benefit of composition of the Board and the appointment of members of the
the Directors and formerDirectors who held office during 2005. Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board as
appropriate. The Committee also monitors the planning of succession
Company Secretary
to the Board and Senior Management. The Committee consists
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available to
entirely of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a majority are
individual Directors in respect of Board procedures. The Company
independent, and meets at least once a year and otherwise as
Secretary is Simon Bicknell, who was appointed in May 2000. He is a
necessary. The Nominations Committee Report is given on page35.
barrister and joined the Group in 1984. He is secretary to all the Board
Committees. Corporate Responsibility Committee
The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of Non-
BoardCommittees
Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the regular
The Board has established a number ofCommittees and provides
review of external issues that have the potential for serious impact
sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties. Executive
upon the Group’s business and for the oversight of reputation
Directors are not members of the Audit, Remuneration,Nominations
management. The Committee is also responsible for governance
or Corporate Responsibility Committees, although they may be invited
oversight of the Group’s worldwide donations and community
to attend meetings. Each Director is a member of the Corporate
support. The Committee meets formally three times a year and
Administration &Transactions and Financial Results Committees.
otherwise as necessary.
Membership of theseCommittees is shown in the table below.
Financial Results Committee
Corporate
Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of
Sir Christopher Gent – – C C the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review and
Mr L Culp – M – – the convening of the Annual General Meeting, together with the
Sir Crispin Davis – M – – preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results. Each Director
Sir Deryck Maughan M – – – is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a meeting is any
Sir Ian Prosser M – M M three members. To be quorate, each meeting must include the
Dr R Schmitz* C M M – Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CEO or
Dr L Shapiro – – – M the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The Committee meets as necessary.
Mr de Swaan* M – – –
Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee
Sir Robert Wilson M C – –
The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews and
*Mr de Swaan will succeed Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the Audit Committee from approves matters in connection with the administration of the Group’s
September 2006.
business, and certain corporate transactions. The Committee consists
Key:C = Chairman.M = Member.
of the Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary. The
The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of each Committee meets as necessary.
Committee. The current full terms of reference of eachCommittee
Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors
may be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Corporate
The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and
Governance section of the company’s website.
Directors during 2005 was undertaken by the Chairman and
Audit Committee implemented in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen,with the
The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting support of the Company Secretary. The Board considered the review
process, the system of internal controls, the management of risks and conclusionsatits meeting in December 2005 and agreed a number
the external and internal audit process. The Committee also proposes of minor improvements to its procedures and operating methodology.
to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors and is
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Sir Ian Prosser,
directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
undertook the performance evaluation of the Chairman through
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive
a discussion with the Directors, excluding the Chairman, in
Directors. It meets at least four times a year and otherwise as
December 2005.
necessary. The Audit Committee Report is on pages34 and 35.
Remuneration Committee Dialogue with shareholders
The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and
Financial results are announced quarterly.
remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET and,
with the assistance of external independent advisors, it evaluates and The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its
makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive half-year and full-year results are announced. The full-year results are
remuneration policy.The Committee consists entirely of independent included in the company’s Annual Report and Annual Review, which
Non-Executive Directors. It meets at least four times a year and otherwise are issued to shareholders. The company’s half-year results are
as necessary. Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in published in a national newspaper shortly after release. The CEO and
the Remuneration Report on pages37to54.The Chairman of the CFO give presentations on the full-year results to institutional investors,
company and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making analysts and the media.
recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of the Non-
Executive Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2005
31
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
There are webcast teleconferences after the release of the first, second Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political
and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts and the Expenditure
media. The Annual Report, Annual Review and quarterly results are At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company
available on the company’s website. to make donations to EU Political Organisations and to incur EU
Political Expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties,
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) takes place in London, and
Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000 each year.
formal notification is sent to shareholders at least one month in
This authority has since been renewed annually. Although the
advance. At the Meeting, a business presentation is made to
company does not make and does not intend to make such payments
shareholders and all Directors able to attend are available, formally
or donations to political parties, within the normal meaning of that
during theAGM, and informally afterwards, for questions. Committee
expression, the definition in the legislation of ’EU Political
Chairmen ordinarily attend the AGM to respond to shareholders’
Organisation’ is wide. It may extend to bodies, which the company
questions. Mr Culp was unable to attend thecompany’s AGM in May
and its subsidiaries might wish to support including those concerned
2005 due to other commitments. All resolutions at the AGM are
with policy review, law reform, the representation of the business
decided on a poll as required by the company’s Articles of Association.
community and special interest groups, such as those concerned with
The results of the poll are announced to the London Stock Exchange
the environment. No donations were made to EU Political
and posted on the company’s website. Details of the 2006 AGM are
Organisations during 2005. The Group made donations to non-EU
set out in the section ‘Annual General Meeting’(see this page).
Political Organisations totalling £320,000during 2005 (£291,000 in
To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and 2004).
understand the views of major shareholders about the company, the
Donations of £301,000 were made in the USA and £19,000 in
Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specific issues, as well
Canada. The USA is the largest recipient of political donations,and
as general shareholder preferences. Atitsmeeting in July,the Board
this reflects the US political system, where candidates are sponsored
received an external review ofshareholder opinion.
solely by donations from individuals, NGOs, companies and other
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders parties.
on performance, plans and objectives through a programme of
In line with US law, the corporate donations by GSK are not made at
regular meetings.
a federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the state
The Group’s Investor Relations department, with offices in London and local levels. Donations are accepted practice in the USA, and as
and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors a major employer in a heavily regulated industry, it is important for
throughout the year. GSK to engage fully in the political process. Donations are one of the
ways of doing this. GSKsupports those candidates who seek an
The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to hear their
environment that appropriately rewards high-risk, high-investment
viewsand discuss issues of mutual importance.
industries and who believe in free market principles and intellectual
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meets with major property rights.
shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy. All Non-
The situation is similar in Canada,and donations follow the same
Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available to meet
guidelines. In the rest of the world donations are very rare and of
with major shareholders if requested.
low value.
The company’s website gives access to current financial and business
There is also a GSK Political Action Committee (PAC) in the USA which
information about the Group.
gives political donations. PAC’s are employee organisations which
Share buy-back programme allow employees to contribute to a fund for political donations.
Atotal of £6.5 billion has been spent by the company on buying its Employees decide upon the recipients of the PAC donations. In 2005,
own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which a total of £282,000was donated to political organisations by the GSK
£1 billion was spent in 2005. The programme covers purchases by the PAC.
company of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasuryshares,
in accordance with the authority given by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting
company’s AGM in 2005.
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 17th May 2006 at
In May 2005,the company was authorised to purchase a maximum The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary,
of586.4million shares. During 2005,72.8million shares, representing Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The business to be transacted at the
1.2% of the issued share capital,were purchasedand held as Treasury meeting will include:
shares (see Note31to thefifnancial statements, ‘Share capital and
• Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline's 2005 Annual
share premium account’).
Report
The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to
•Approving the 2005 Remuneration Report
which repurchased shares will be held as Treasuryshares rather than
The Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 54 sets out the
being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent
remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures
on market conditions and other factors.
on Directors’ remuneration, including those required by the
Companies Act 1985 and the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002. A resolution will be proposed to approve the
Remuneration Report.
GSK Annual Report 2005
32
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
• Retirement, election and re-election of Directors The internal control framework also relies on the following for
DrSlaoui and Mr de Swaanhave beenappointedDirectorssince the overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
2005AGM and will offerthemselves for election to the Board.Mr
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC)
Culp, Sir Crispin Davis and Dr Schmitzwill retire and offer themselves
The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board
for re-election to the Board under article 93 of the company’s Articles
to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and
of Association.Dr Shapiro will retire at the conclusion of the AGM
internal control activities of the Group. Membership comprises several
and will not offer herself for re-election.
CETmembers and some of the heads of departments with internal
• Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors control, risk management, audit and compliance responsibilities.
Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers
The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant
LLP as auditors and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine
risks and their mitigation plans. The ROCC, responding to the Group
their remuneration.
policy referred to above, has provided the business units with a
• Special business framework for risk management and upward reporting of significant
The company will seek authority to: risks. Mitigation planning and identification of a manager with overall
responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
• make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur EU Political
Expenditure Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs)
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) have been
• allotOrdinaryShares in the company
established in each of the major business units. Membership often
• give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights when comprises members of the senior executive team of the respective
allotting newShares in connection with rights issues or otherwise business unit, augmented by specialists where appropriate. The RMCBs
up to a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and oversee management of all risks that are considered important for their
purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of just under respective business units, including those risks that are designated as
10% of the current issued share capital. significant to GlaxoSmithKline as a whole, thus increasing the number
of risks that are actively managed across the Group.
Internal control framework
Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its significant risks
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and to the ROCC.
understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects.
Compliance functions
The structure of accountability and audit operated in GSK is as follows.
In a number of risk areas, specific standards that meet or exceed
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the adequacy requirements of applicable law have been established. Specialist audit
and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including and compliance functions (for example Corporate Environment,
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management. Health & Safety, Global Quality Assurance and Worldwide Regulatory
The Board has delegated responsibility for such review to the Audit Compliance) assist in the dissemination, implementation and audit
Committee, which receives reports from those individuals identified in of these standards.
the Committee’s Report on pages34 and 35. It is the responsibility of
Corporate Ethics & Compliance (CEC)
management, through the CET, to implement Board policies on risk
The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance
and control. The CET is responsible for identifying, approving,
department which is responsible for supporting the development and
monitoring and enforcing key policies that go to the heart of how the
implementation of practices that facilitate employees’ compliance
Group conducts business. The internal control framework includes
with laws and Group policy.
central direction, resource allocation and risk management of the key
activities of research and development, manufacturing, marketing and The thrust of the Group’s compliance effort is due diligence in
sales, legal, human resources, information systems and financial preventing and detecting misconduct and non-compliance with law
practice. As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with all laws
system with an annual budget approved by the Board. The results of and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levelsand effective
operating units are reported monthly and compared to the budget. compliance systems.
Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance Officer, who
Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises and reports directly to the CEO. The Corporate Compliance Officer chairs
risk activities are reviewed by the Group’s internal auditors. Commercial the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCC’s activities and
and financial responsibility, however, is clearly delegated to local the Group’s significant risks to the CET and the Audit Committee on
business units, supported by a regional management structure. These a regular basis.The Corporate Compliance Officer’sdirect reporting
principles are designed to provide an environment of central leadership line to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism for bypassing the
coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework for the executive management should the need ever arise.
exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
Areas of potentially significant risk
The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and procedures For details of risks affecting the Group, seeNote41to thefifnancial
designed to achieve appropriate accountability and control. A Group statements, ‘Legal proceedings’ and ‘Risk factors’ on pages71to74.
policy, ‘Risk Management and Legal Compliance’, mandates that
business units establish processes for managing and monitoring risks
significant to their businesses and the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2005
33
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
Effectiveness of controls Accordingly, the Boardchosenot to nominate any one committee
The internal control framework has been in operation for the whole member as having recent and relevant financial experience as defined
of the year under review and continues to operate up to the date of by the Combined Code, or as an Audit Committee Financial Expert
approval of this report. The system of internal controls is designed to as defined bySarbanes-Oxley.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business
In arriving at its conclusion, the Board considered the following points.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
Dr Schmitz has been the Chairman of the Committee since April
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
2001. Prior to his appointment as a Non-Executive Director of the
The Audit Committee receives reports on areas of significant risk to company, he was a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc,
the Group and on related internal controls. Following consideration where he served on the Audit Committee. Dr Schmitz has also been
of these reports, the Audit Committee reports annually to the Board a member of the Executive Board of Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
on the effectiveness of controls. Such controls may mitigate but He retired from that Board in 2000 having been in charge of
cannot eliminate risks. In addition, there are areas of the Group’s investment banking. Dr Schmitz was formerly a member of the
business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve a satisfactory Executive Board of Directors of BASF from 1980 to 1990, including
return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D and in acquiring CFO from 1985 to 1990. He holds an MBA from Insead. Sir Ian Prosser
new products or businesses. In these cases,it is the Group’s objective was CFO and later CEO of Bass PLC and is a member of the Institute
to apply its expertise in the prudent management rather than of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Sir Robert Wilson
elimination of risk. The Directors’ review relates to the company and began his professional career as an economist. He is Chairman of BG
its subsidiaries and does not extend to material associated Group plc. He held senior management positions at Rio Tinto plc
undertakings, joint ventures or other investments. culminating in his appointment as Executive Chairman, from which
he retired in 2003.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates Sir Deryck Maughan was appointed a member of the Committee on
in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the system 21st January 2005. He is Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis
of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by Roberts &Co (KKR) and Chairman of KKR Asia. He was Chairman and
this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board. The process CEO of Citigroup International and Vice Chairman of Citigroup Inc.
followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal controls Prior to the creation of Citigroup, he was Chairman and Co-Chief
accords with the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Executive Officer of Salomon Smith Barney. He was also Chairman and
Committee in 1999. Chief Executive Officer of Salomon Brothers.
When appointing Mr de Swaanto theCommittee with effect from
Committee reports
1st January 2006,the Board determined that he had recent and
Audit Committee Report relevant financial experience in accordance with the Combined Code.
In coming to this conclusion, the Board paid particular attention to Mr
The Audit Committee’s role flows directly from the Board’s oversight
de Swaan’s role as Chief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO, from which
function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity
heretiredon 31st December 2005.The Board also considers Mr de
within its terms of reference. The Committee has written terms of
Swaan to be an Audit Committee Financial Expertas defined by
reference which have been approved by the Board. The Committee
Sarbanes-Oxley.
reports regularly to the Board on the performance of the activities it
has been assigned. The Committee’s main responsibilities include The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who attends
reviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting process, the Committee’s meetings, and it has available to it financial resources
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, evaluating the to take independent professional advice when considered necessary.
system of internal control and the management of risks, overseeing Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman, CEO,
activities of each of the Group’s compliance audit functions and CFO, General Counsel, Head of Global Internal Audit (GIA), Corporate
overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of Compliance Officer and the external auditors.
practice. The Committee’s oversight role requires it to address regularly
In 2005, the Committee worked to a structured programme of
the relationships between management and the internal and external
activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to
auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting relationships and
consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to
tiers of accountability between them. The Committee receives regular
coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle:
reports from members of the CET and senior managers covering the
key compliance activities of the Group, including those concerning •the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical
R&D, manufacturing, sales and marketing and EHS. accounting policies and practices used by the company, alternative
accounting treatments which had been discussed with
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting
management and the resultant conclusion by the external auditors,
experience to the Committee’s work. Members have past employ-
material written communications with management and any
ment experience in either finance or accounting roles or comparable
restrictions on access to information
experience in corporate activities.
• the CFO reported on the financial performance of the company
In respect of 2005,the Board haddetermined that the combined and on technical financial and accounting matters
qualifications and experience of the Committee members, when
•the General Counsel reported on material litigation
taken together with its modus operandi, gave the Committee
collectively the financial expertise necessary to discharge its •the Company Secretary reported on corporate governance
responsibilities.
GSK Annual Report 2005
34
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
•the Heads of each of the Group’s compliance and audit groups TheCommittee also recommended to the Board the appointment of
reported on their audit scope, annual coverage, audit resources and Sir Deryck Maughan to the Audit Committee in January 2005 and Dr
on the results of audits conducted throughout the year Schmitz to the Remuneration Committee in May2005.In February
• the Corporate Compliance Officer reported on the activities 2006, the Committee recommended to the Board that Dr Moncef
undertaken by the ROCC Slaoui, succeed Dr Yamada as Chairman, Research&Development on
his retirement from the company on 1st June 2006.
•the Company Secretary,as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee,
reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure In addition, the Committee recommended to the Board that Dr Schmitz
of financial and other material information to the Board, to the should serve a further term of three years as a Non-ExecutiveDirector
public markets and to shareholders. This enabled the Committee to and that he should remain Chairman of the Audit Committee until
review the clarity and completeness of the disclosures in the September 2006.The Committee also made a recommendation to
published annual financial statements, interim reports, quarterly the Board that Dr Ralph Horwitz be appointed a Non-Executive
and preliminary results announcements and other formal Director. Following the announcement of Dr Horwitz’s appointment,
announcements relating to financial performance prior to their a potential conflict of interest was disclosed,and Dr Horwitz decided
release by the Board. not to take up his appointment as a Non-Executive Director of the
company.
The Audit Committee, management, internal auditors and the full
Board work together to ensure the quality of the company’s corporate When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers the
accounting and financial reporting. The Committee serves as the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit the Board
primary link between the Board and the external and internal auditors. most significantly for each appointment. Broad selection criteria are
This facilitates the necessary independence from management and used which focus on achieving a balance between the representation
encourages the external and internal auditors to communicate freely of European, UK and US markets, and having individuals with CEO
and regularly with the Committee. In 2005, the Committee met both experience and skills developed in various sectors and specialities. During
collectively and separately with the external auditors and the Head of 2005, particular focus was placed upon recruiting a newNon-Executive
GIA, without members of management being present. Director with recent and relevant financial expertise, to join the Audit
Committee.Professional search agencies are engaged specialising in
The Committee has primary responsibility for making a
the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors. Dossiers of
recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, reappointment
potentialnon-executive appointees are provided to the Committee and
and removal of the external auditors by annually assessing the
candidates are short-listed for interview after considering their relevant
qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external
qualifications.
auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new
In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which
Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience and
detail the relevant regulatory requirements relating to external auditors
taking account of their different backgrounds. This process includes
and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their compliance
meeting members of the CET and other senior executives and visiting
with the requirements. Where the external auditors provide non-audit
particular operational facilities of the Group.
services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and
independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by The Committee continued to keep under review the succession
the Audit Committee for such services. Expenditure on audit and non- planning for senior executive positions,including that of the CEO and
audit services is set out on pages 95 and 96. Chairman, Research&Development.
The guidelines set out in the company’s policy on engaging the When appointingnew Executive Directors, the Committee considers
external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining the skills, knowledge and experience required for the particular
that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a executive position. The Committee will consider potential external and
suitable supplier of the non-audit services; adequate safeguards are internal candidates before recommending to the Board to approve the
in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit are not new appointment.Allnew Directors offer themselves for election at
compromised; and the fee levels relative to the annual audit fee are the company’s next AGM. Their appointments are announced publicly.
within the limits set by the Committee.
The Committee met once during 2005 in full session andtwiceon a
The company also has well-established policies, including a Code of quorate basis.All members were present at the full meeting.
Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility for the
Remuneration Report
reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.No waivers to the
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages37to54.
Code were made in 2005.
The Committee met in full sessionfivetimes in 2005 andfivetimes The Combined Code
on a quorate basis. Each full session was attended by all members
Throughout 2005, the company complied with the Code provisions
except Sir Robert Wilson, who was unable to attend one meeting.
of the Combined Code, except as follows:
Nominations Committee Report
•B.1.1–In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration,
The Nominations Committee’s terms of reference include responsibility
the Remuneration Committee should follow the provisions in
for proposing the appointment of Board and Committee members.
Schedule A to the Code. Item 6 of Schedule A states that, in general,
During 2005, the Committee made recommendations to the Board on
only basic salary should be pensionable. The company’s position is
the appointment ofMr de Swaanas aNon-ExecutiveDirector.
explained in the Remuneration Report on pages37to54.
GSK Annual Report 2005
35
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
•C.3.1 – The Board should satisfy itself that at least one member of Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the
the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience. CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that:
The company’s position is explained on page34.See page34for
•they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F
the position from 1st January 2006.
• based on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements or
•D.2.3 – The Chairman should arrange for the Chairmen of the
omissions
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees to be available
to answer questions at the AGM and for allDirectors to attend. The •based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
company’s position is explained on pages 31 and 32. financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the
US law and regulation dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and
Form 20-F
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK
because the company’s shares are quoted on the New York Stock •they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADSs. controls and procedures that ensure that material information is
made known to them, have evaluated the effectiveness of these
NYSE rules
controls and procedures as at the year end, the results of such
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK corporate
evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F
governance practices instead ofthoseappliedin the USA, provided
and have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any changes
that the company explains any significant variations. This explanation
in internal controls over financial reporting during the period covered
ison the company’s website.NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005
by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have materially affected,
require the company to fileannualand interim written affirmations
or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the company’s internal
concerning the Audit Committee and the company’s statement on
control over financial reporting
significant differences in corporate governance.
•they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the USA,
the Audit Committee all significant deficiencies and material
Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Actof2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley).
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
Sarbanes-Oxley established new standards for corporate account-
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely
ability for companies listed in the USA. Although the company’s
the company’s ability to record, process, summarise and report
corporate governance structurewasbelieved to be robust and in line
financial information and any fraud (regardless of materiality)
with best practice, certain changes were necessary to ensure
involving persons that have a significant role in the company’s
compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
internal control over financial reporting.
As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),
The CEO and CFO have completed these certifications, which will be
GSK has established a Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports
filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s Form 20-F.
to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit Committee. It is chaired by the
Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers Controls and procedures
from finance, legal, compliance, corporate communications and The Group carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with
investor relations. the participation, of the Group’s management, including the CEO
and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the
External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to attend
Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December
its meetings periodically. It has responsibility for considering the
2005. There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any
materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the
system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility
disclosureof that information. Ithas responsibility for the timely filing
of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls
of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report
and procedures.
and Form 20-F. In 2005, the Committee meteleventimes.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a statement
only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
as to whether a member of the company’s Audit Committee is an
Based upon the Group’s evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded
audit committee financial expert.
that, as at 31st December 2005, the disclosure controls and
For an explanation and details of the basis for the Board’s judgement procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that
on this matter, refer to page34. information required to be disclosed in the reports the Group files
and submits under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
For accounting periods ending on or after 15th July 2006, Sarbanes-
amended, is recorded, processed, summarised and reported as and
Oxley requires that the company’s Form 20-F contain a report stating
when requiredand that it is accumulated and communicated to
the responsibility of management for establishing and maintaining
management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow
adequate internal control over financial reporting and assessing the
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting.
There have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
Although the company is not required to report compliance in its
financial reporting during 2005 that have materially affected, or are
2005Form 20-F, management has undertaken a process to ensure
reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal control over
that it will be in a position to report compliance by the due date.
financial reporting.
GSK Annual Report 2005
36
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERGSK Annual Report 2005
37
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policies operated
by GSK in respect of the Directors and Corporate Executive Team
(CET) members, together with disclosures on Directors’ remuneration
including those required by The Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 (the Regulations). In accordance with the
Regulations, the following sections of the Remuneration Report are
subject to audit: Annual remuneration; Non-Executive Directors’
remuneration; Share options; Incentive plans; performance criteria on
Performance Share Plans and share options; and Pensionsfor which
the opinion thereon is expressed on page 166. The remaining sections
are not subject to auditnorare the pages referred to from within the
audited sections.
This Report is submitted to shareholders by the Board for approval at
the Annual General Meeting, as referenced in the notice of Annual
General Meeting.
Throughout the Remuneration Report the Executive Directors and
CETmembers are referred to as the ‘Executives’.
References to GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs mean, respectively,
Ordinary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p and American
Depository Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Each ADS represents two
GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Introduction 38
Remuneration policy 38
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 42
Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 44
Directors and Senior Management remuneration 44
Annual remuneration 45
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 46
Directors’ interests 48
Share options 49
Incentive plans 51
Pensions 53
Directors and Senior Management 54
Directors’ interests in contracts 54GSK Annual Report 2005
38
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Remuneration Report
continued
Introduction Remuneration policy
The Remuneration Committee (or ‘Committee’) is responsible for Principles
making recommendations to the Board on the company’s The four core principles which underpin the remuneration policy for
remuneration policy and, within the terms of the agreed policy, GlaxoSmithKline are:
determining the total individual remuneration packages of the
•securing outstanding executive talent
Executives.
•pay for performance and only for performance
The remuneration policy set out in thisReport was finalised after •robust and transparent governance structures
undertaking an extensive consultation process with shareholders and •a commitment to be a leader of good remuneration practice in the
institutional bodies during the course of 2003 and 2004. pharmaceutical industry.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continues to have In formulating the policy, the Committee also decided that:
regular dialogue with institutional investors regarding GSK’s
•the remuneration structure must support the needs of the business
remuneration policy.
in a very competitive market place
GlaxoSmithKline’s remuneration policy is designed to establish a •UK shareholder guidelines will be followed to the maximum extent
framework for remuneration that is consistent with the company’s consistent with the needs of the business and the company would
scale and scope of operations,meets the recruitment needs of the maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders
business and is closely aligned with UK shareholder guidelines. As at •global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay comparator
31st December 2005, the company was the second largest group
pharmaceutical company in the world by revenue, with operationson •performance conditions would be based on the measurable delivery
five continents with products sold in over130countries and with of strong financial performance and the delivery of superior returns
around50%of sales being generated in the USA. to shareholders as compared with other pharmaceutical companies
•a high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity will be
Remuneration Committee
based on performance-related remuneration which will be delivered
Sir Robert Wilson has been Chairman of the Committee since 17th
over the medium to long term
May 2004. Sir Crispin Davis and Mr Culp were members of the
•remuneration would be determined using the projected value
Committee throughout 2005. Dr Schmitz was appointed to the
method (see ‘Benchmarking’ below)
Committee in May 2005. The Board deemed all of the members of
•there would be one remuneration structure for Executive Directors
the Committee to be independent Non-Executive Directors in
and the CET with the same performance conditions, applying
accordance with the Combined Code.
equally to their long-term incentive awards
The Committee met five times during 2005 with each member •no ex-gratia payments will be made
attending as follows: •pay structures would be as simple as is consistent with the business
needs.
Number of meetings Number of meetings
held whilst a attended by
Name Committee member Committee member Overall, the policy is intended to provide median total remuneration
for median performance. Poor performance will result in total
Sir Robert Wilson 5 5
remuneration significantly below the pay comparator group median,
Mr L Culp 5 5
with the opportunity to earn upper quartile total remuneration for
Sir Crispin Davis 5 5
exceptional performance.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz 4 4
This strong alignment with performance is demonstrably in the
Threequorate meetings were held to approve the formal grant of
interests of shareholders and provides the Executives with
share options and performance share awards to give effect to the
unambiguous signals about the importance of delivering success to
Committee’s decisions.
the company’s shareholders.
With the exception of the Company Secretary, no employees of the
Commitment
company were involved in the conduct of Committee meetings. Dr
The Committee will apply this policy on a consistent and transparent
Garnier (CEO) and the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, were
basis. Any significant changes in the measures used to assess
invited to attend part of some meetings of the Committee as required.
performance will be discussed with shareholders. In the use of
Deloitte &Touche LLP(Deloitte) have been appointed by the comparators for pay benchmarking, the Committee will use its
Committee to provide it with independent advice on executive discretion to ensure that remuneration levels are reasonable, and if it
remuneration. believes that changes may cause concern amongst shareholders, the
position will be discussed with shareholders prior to implementation.
Deloitte provided other consulting services to GSK during the year, but
did not provide advice on executive remuneration matters other than
to the Committee.
Towers Perrin provides market data and data analysis to the
Committee.GSK Annual Report 2005
39
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Remuneration Report
continued
Pay and performance comparators Following the independent review in 2003, the Committee made a
The following table sets out the companies used for pay and deliberate and conscious decision to use the projected value method
performance comparison: for pay benchmarking purposes as it enables a comparison of
Market Cap packages with different structural characteristics and provides an
31.12.05
Company Country £m insight into the value gearing of different equity instruments.
Abbott Laboratories USA 35,561 Individual elements of remuneration
AstraZeneca UK 44,693 The balance between the fixed (base salary) and variable (annual
Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 26,140 bonus and long-term incentive) elements of remuneration changes
Eli Lilly USA 37,396 with performance. The chart below shows the anticipated normal
GlaxoSmithKline UK 85,497 range of the mix between fixed and variable pay at different levels of
Johnson &Johnson USA 103,950 performance for the CEO and the typical case for the other Executive
Merck USA 40,440 Directors (“ED”). In some years, the ranges may be higher or lower,
Novartis Switzerland 80,419 depending on the performance of the company and the individual.
Pfizer USA 99,942
Roche Holdings Switzerland 61,334 CEO 5%-40% 15%-20% 40%-80%
ED 10%-50% 20%-25% 25%-70%
Sanofi-Aventis France 70,997 100 %
Schering-Plough USA 17,915
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Japan 27,949
Wyeth USA 35,952
Base salary Annual bonus Long-term incentives
The merger of Aventis and Sanofi-Synthelabo during 2004 reduced the
size of the comparator group to 13 companies and GlaxoSmithKline. Base salary
The Committee subsequently determined that for a number of reasons, Base salaries are set by reference to the median for the relevant market.
including focus of operation and market capitalisation, there was no For Executives,this is the pharmaceutical pay comparator group. Actual
other suitable company to add to the group. salary levels are reviewed annually and may vary depending on an
Executive’s experience, responsibility and market value. Any changes
Benchmarking
usually take effect from 1st April. Following a market data review,base
For benchmarking purposes, total remuneration incorporates base
salaries for Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada were increased by 5.1% to
salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives. When setting pay,the
$1,600,000 and 6.9% to $775,000,respectively,with effect from 1st
Committee has due regard to the Executives’ pension arrangements.
April 2005 in line with stated policy in relation to base salary
The global pharmaceutical industry is used as the primary pay positioning. The base salary for Mr Coombe prior to his retirement on
comparator for the Executives,as it is the appropriate marketplace 31st March 2005 was £509,850. The base salary on appointmentfor
for the company’s most senior executive talent. In the first instance, Mr Julian Heslop, who succeeded Mr Coombe, was £320,000.
pay is benchmarked to publicly available remuneration data for Following a market data review, undertaken in February 2006, the
these companies. base salary for Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada was increased by8% to
$1,730,000and by 3% to $800,000, respectively. Mr Heslop’s base
To provide context to the above information, reference is made to
salary was increased by25%to£400,000following the Committee’s
the Towers Perrin annual global pharmaceutical pay survey for the
review of his performance as CFO since his appointment to the role
Pharmaceutical Human Resources Association (PHRA). To ensure that
on 1st April 2005.Salary increases take effect 1st April 2006.
the global pharmaceutical industry benchmark is subject to scrutiny
and review, the Committee also considers pay data from other global Annual bonus
businesses primarily in the consumer and the manufacturing sectors. All bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal review of annual
performance against stretching financial targets based on profit
Prior to determining the annual long-term incentive opportunity, the
before interest and tax and are subject to detailed assessment of
Committee considers a range of vesting levels that may be achieved
individual, business unit andGroup achievements against objectives.
based on different assumptions, such as share price growth,
No bonus is payable if financial performance is less than 96% of the
performance levels etc. For performance in line with expectations,
target performance. The individual performance against objectives
total remuneration is targeted at the median of the comparator group
can increase or decrease the bonus level by a factor which can range
and the long-term incentive opportunity is set in a way which provides
from zero to 1.5. Bonuses are subject to upper limits, which for the
for positioning of total remuneration at the median.
Executives other than the CEO, range between 100% and 200% of
To ensure that a stable benchmark is developed and to reduce the base salary. The CEO’s limit is 200%.
impact of short-term fluctuations, incentive policies for other global
An annual bonus paid on the basis of on-target business performance
pharmaceutical companies are assessed over a number of years.
together with base salary provides annual cash in line with the median
Valuation method of the pay comparator group.
The projected value method is used to benchmark total remuneration.
In the case of the CEO,the bonus targets are set by the Board. In
This method projects the future value of the remuneration package
setting the objectives for the CEO, the Board takes into account the
under different performance scenarios,whilst moderating the impact
strategies that have been developed by the company,and are set out
of market fluctuations in the short term and strengthening the focus
on page6of the Annual Report.
on performance.Remuneration Report
continued
The objectives set for 2005 focussed in particular on building the best Historically, the performance period for awards made in the fourth
product pipeline in the industry, delivering commercial and operational quarter started on 1st January following the date of award. For LTI
excellence and, in addition, formulating and updating the strategic awards made in 2006 and thereafter, the performance periodstarts
plan for the vaccines business. on 1st January of the year of award (i.e. 1st January 2006 for awards
made in February 2006).
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the specific objectives set against
the strategic business drivers are kept confidential. Following the end No compensation was provided for the change in the awards cycle.
of the financial year, the Board reviews the CEO’s performance
Full disclosure of LTIawards made to the Executive Directors in
generally and againsttheset objectives,and the Committee then
February 2006 will be made in the RemunerationReport for 2006. The
determines the bonus payable. The CEO makes recommendations to
summary details of the LTIawards made to the Executive Directors in
the Committee regarding the performance level achieved against
February 2006 are set outon page51of the RemunerationReport.
objectives for the other Executives. These recommendations are then
considered by the Committee to determine the resultant bonus. Performance share awards and share options are delivered to US
resident executives in the form of ADSs. Awards are delivered in the
In determining bonus awards for 2005, the Committeetook into
form of Ordinary Shares to executives resident in the UK and other
account the excellent financial performance during the year and the
countries. All awards are made under plans which incorporate dilution
encouraging progress in building the pipeline of new products.
limits consistent with the guidelines provided by the Association of
In light of the low take up levels and in response to concerns expressed British Insurers, the National Association of Pension Funds and other
by institutional investors in relation to the 1 for 10 non-performance shareholder representative bodies. Current estimated dilution from
related match provided under theAnnual Incentive Plan (AIP), the existing awards under all GlaxoSmithKline employee share schemes
Committee decided to discontinue theAIP. Under the AIP, and its US made since the merger is approximately5% of the company’s share
equivalent, eligible employees could elect to invest their bonus in GSK capital at 31st December 2005.
shares or ADSs for a minimum period of three years. At the end of
In 2005, the Committee, assisted by Deloitte, undertook a review of
the three-year holding period, participants (including Executives) are
the current performance measures used under the GSKLTIplans.
entitled to a matching award of 10% of their deferred shareholding.
After extensive and careful consideration, the Committee concluded
The match is not subject to further performance conditions. ThisAIP
that the measures currently used under the LTI plans remain
was open to approximately 700 senior executives who all participated
appropriate and relevant, although in the case of the Share Option
on the same terms. The last deferral elections under theAIPwere
Plan, it was agreed that the annualised growth in EPS to achieve
made in respect to bonuses earned during 2005. Although theAIP
100% vesting for the awards granted in 2006, would be increased
has now closed, GSK will continue to manage the ongoing
from RPI + 5% to RPI +6%.
administration of subsisting awards as required by theAIPrules.
a) Performance shares
Long-term incentives
For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting is based
Executives are eligible for performance share awards and share
on the company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to the
options. The remuneration policy provides that annual long-term
performance comparator group (see page 39) over a three-year
incentive (LTI) awards will normally be made up of a performance
measurement period. TSR was chosen as the most appropriate
share award and a share option award.
comparative measure since it focuses on the return to shareholders,
The Committee considers that performance shares provide a stronger is a well-understood and tested mechanism to measure performance
alignment to shareholder value, and therefore the remuneration policy and allows comparison between companies operating in different
places greater emphasis on the use of performance shares.LTIawards countries.
are determined such that for on-target performance more than half
TSR is measured in sterling over the performance period and
of the long-term incentive reward is derived from performance shares.
represents the change in the value of a share together with the value
The annual grant of LTIawards using more than one plan is consistent of reinvested dividends paid. In order to remove the impact of the
with the practice of the pay comparator group and other leading UK varying tax treatments of dividends in different jurisdictions, all
companies.LTIsfor the CET are provided on the same basis as the dividends are reinvested gross.
Executive Directors. The level of the annual LTI opportunity is
As a result of the change in the LTI award cycle for all eligible
considered carefully year-on-year by the Committee in the context of
employees, no performance share awards were made in 2005 to the
market practice.
Executives. In respect of the performance share awards granted in
To align the award cycles more closely with GSK’s financial year and December 2004 and in February 2006, with the performance periods
budgeting process, the Committee decided to change the annual of 1st January 2005 to 31st December 2007 and 1st January 2006 to
grant date forLTIawards for all eligible employees from the fourth 31st December 2008, respectively,if GSKis ranked at position seven
quarter of each year to the first quarter of each year. (the mid-point) of the performance comparator group, 35% of the
shares will vest. Any ranking below this point will result in no shares
This change took effect from 2005 and thus LTI awards that would
vesting. Only if GSKis one of the top two companies will all of the
otherwise have been made in the fourth quarter of 2005 were made
shares vest. When determining vesting levels, the Committee has
instead in February 2006.This change in award cycle does not affect
regard for the company’s underlying financial performance.
the performance period.
GSK Annual Report 2005
40
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
TSR rank with 13 companies & Percentage of Following the introduction of International Financial Reporting
GlaxoSmithKline award vesting*
Standards (IFRS) on 1st January 2005, the Committee considered what
1 100% EPS measurement basis, either IFRSor UKGAAP, should be used for
2 100% share options and performance share plan awards (prior to 2003 see
3 87% page 50), with EPS performance conditions having performance
4 74% periods that straddled the IFRS conversion date. The Committee
5 61% agreed that for the purpose of measuring EPS growth in determining
6 48% whether vesting targets had been achieved, UKGAAP would be used
7 35% for the 2002 grant (performance period: 1st January 2003 to 31st
Below 7 0% December 2005) as two out of three years would be reported under
*TSR is measured on a pro-rata basis. Where GlaxoSmithKline’s performance UKGAAP.This would require the 2005 CERgrowth to be restated on
falls between two of the comparators, the level of vesting will be determined a UKGAAP basis. IFRS would be used for the 2003 grant
by the actual relative level of TSR rather than simple ranking. (performance period: 1st January 2004 to 31stDecember2006) as
two out of the three years would be reported under IFRS.
To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments
to the Executives, notional dividends are reinvested and paid out in As a result of the change in the LTI award cycle for all eligible
proportion to the vesting of the award. The receipt of dividends has employees, no share options were granted to Executives in 2005.
been incorporated into the benchmarking of award levels. In addition,
Forshare option grantsin2006, vesting increases on a straight-line
performance shares earned by the Executives cannot be sold, except
basis for EPS performance between the hurdles set out in the
to meet related tax liabilities, for a further two years following the end
followinggraph.
of the vesting period. The Committee believes that this further aligns
the interests of the Executives with the long-term interests of
shareholders.
The vesting table for the performance share awards granted in
December 2003, with the performance period 1st January 2004 to
31st December 2006, is given on page52.
b) Share options
Share options allow a holder to buy shares at a future date at the
share price prevailing at the time of grant. Share options are granted
to more than 12,000 managers at GlaxoSmithKline, including the
Executives. Thevestingof the share options granted to the Executives
is linked to the achievement of compound annual EPS growth over
the performance period.
The Committee considered that EPS was the key measure of the
performance of the business and was also fully reflected through the
business measures extended throughout the Group, ensuring
organisational alignment.
When setting EPS targets, the Committee considers the company’s
internal projections and analysts’ forecasts for GlaxoSmithKline’s EPS This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK
performance, as well as analysts’ forecasts for the pharmaceutical shareholder guidelines and expectations and is demanding when
industry. compared with those operated by other global pharmaceutical
The following key principles govern the use of EPS as a performance companies. This is consistent with the policy of providing pay for
measure: performance and only for performance.
•adjustments will only be considered for major items Performance is measured overperiods ofthree financial years,which
•adjustments will be for the judgement of the Committee commence on the basis set out on page40. There is no performance
•the purpose of the adjustments is to ensure that the performance retesting, so if the performance condition is not met after the three-
measurement is fair and reasonable to both participants and year period, the options will lapse.
shareholders Pensions
•any discretion exercised by the Committee will be disclosed to The Executives participate in GlaxoSmithKline senior executive pension
shareholders in the Annual Report. plans. The pension arrangements are structured in accordance with
The Committee will set out the basis of its decision if it considers it the plans operated for executives in the country in which the
appropriate to make any adjustment. executives are likely to retire. Benefits are normally payable at age 60.
Details of individual arrangements for the Executive Directors are set
out on page43. In response to the future pensions regime in the UK,
the Committee carefully considered the impact of the change in
legislation and has decided the following:
GSK Annual Report 2005
41
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
100%
RPI+3%
p.a.
egatnecrep
gnitseV
Exceptional
Superior
Baseline
Threshold
50%
0%
RPI+4% RPI+5% RPI+6%
p.a. p.a. p.a.
EPS TargetRemuneration Report
continued
•the company will continue to fulfil its obligations under existing The Sharesave plan and the ShareReward plan are Inland Revenue-
pension arrangements approved plans open to all UK employees on the same terms. Mr
•no compensation will be provided if participants are adversely Heslop is a member of the Sharesave plan, into which he contributes
affected by the new pension regime. £250 a month. This provides him with the option to buy shares at the
end of the three-year savings period in line with the opportunity
In coming to these decisions, the Committee took account of the
available to all UK employees.
following:
Mr Heslop also contributes£125 per monthto buy shares under the
•new executive hires benefit from a 15%, plus 4% match
ShareReward plan. The company matches the number of shares
opportunity, of base pay under the defined contribution plan in the
bought each month.
UK, and a contribution equal to 5% of base salary plus under the
bonus cash balance plan in the USA The Executives also receive other benefits including healthcare
•in the UK,legacy final salary plans were grandfathered for existing (medical and dental), personal financial advice and life assurance. The
employees and no new entrants have been allowed. For capped cash value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in 2005
employees, benefits in excess of the cap are currently all provided is shown on page45.
through unfunded arrangements
•for capped employees in the USA, benefits above the cap are Executive Director terms, conditions and
provided by a non-qualified plan. remuneration
Share ownership requirements Executive Director contracts
To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders, The policy regarding the Executive Directors’ contracts was the subject
executives are required to maintain significant holdings of shares in of extensive review and change during 2003. The policy provides the
GlaxoSmithKline. These requirements are an important part of framework for contracts for Executive Directors appointed since and
aligning the interests of executives with shareholders. The CEO is going forward.
required to hold shares to the value of four times base salary. Other
The key aspects of GlaxoSmithKline’s contractual framework are:
Executive Directors are required to build a shareholding to the value
of three times base salary. Members of the CET are required to build
Aspect Policy
a shareholding to a value of two times base salary. The other top 700
Notice period on 12 calendar months
executives in the Group are required to build a shareholding to a value
termination by the
of one times base salary. Executives are required to continue to satisfy
employing company
these shareholding requirements for a minimum of twelve months
or executive
following retirement from the company.
Termination payment – 1x annual salary and
In order for shares to qualify for these share ownership requirements 1x annual ’on-target’ bonus 1
they must be held personally by the Executive or their spouse or – No mitigation required 2
minor children or have been earned but deferred under one of the
Benefits Governed by benefits policy,
share programmes operated by the company. Unexercised share
including:
options are not included in this calculation. As at 31st December
– healthcare (medical and dental)
2005, Dr Garnier’sholding was225,896ADSs,Dr Yamada’s was
– personal financial advice
67,512 ADSs and Mr Heslop’s was 18,885 ordinary shares. Dr
– life assurance contributions
Garnier’s and Dr Yamada’s holdings were in excess of the share
Vesting of long-term Rules of relevant equity incentive
ownership requirements. Mr Heslop has until December 2008 to
build his holding to the value of three times base salary.MrCoombe's
incentives plan3
shareholdingat 31st December 2005,was in excess of the share Pension Based on existing arrangements and
ownership requirements following his retirement from the Board on terms of the relevant pension plan
31st March 2005. Non-compete clause 12 months from termination
Other remuneration elements notice date 2
The Executives participate in various legacy Glaxo Wellcome and
1 Dr Garnier’s target bonus is 100% of salary,Dr Yamada’s is 85% of salaryand Mr
SmithKline Beecham all-employee share plans in either the UK or the Heslop’s is 75% of salary.
USA and in the GlaxoSmithKline plans that replaced them.
2 The imposition of a 12-month non-compete period on the Executives is considered
vitally important by the company in order to protect the Group’s intellectual property.
In light of the non-compete clause and competitor practice, the Committee believes
that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in the contracts. When
reviewing the level of severance payments, the Committee considered investor and DTI
guidance. However, it determined that in line with competitive practice it is appropriate
to provide for the payment of salary and target bonus on termination.
3 As approved by shareholders of GlaxoSmithKline, Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline
Beecham, as appropriate.
GSK Annual Report 2005
42
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Following the independent review of remuneration undertaken in GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions of 15% of Dr Garnier’s
2003, Dr Garnier,Mr Coombeand Dr Yamada agreed to changes in annual salary and bonus and 18% of Dr Yamada’s annual salary and
their previous contractual terms without compensation to come bonus. The fund increases at an interest rate based on the yield on
broadly in line with the new contractual framework, including the 30-year treasury bonds. The company has no liability beyond making
reduction of contractual notice period from 24 to 12 calendar months. these annual contributions.
However, in order to honour certain aspects of their ‘old’ contractual
Prior to 1999 all USemployees, including Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada,
terms, there are a number of individual features which have been
were moved from a final salary pension arrangement to the current
retained.
cash balance structure. For all employees in the US, cash balance plan
In Dr Garnier’s case,these include the entitlement to reimbursement contributions are based on combined annual salary and annual bonus.
of excise tax on change of control related payments, life insurance
Mr Heslop participates in the Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit plan
benefit funded by the company to age 65 and the following provisions
with an accrual rate of 1/30th of finalpensionable salary per annum.
relating to the vesting of long-term incentives:
In 2000 all benefits accrued under the Glaxo Wellcome UK pension
•Pre-2003 awards
arrangements were augmented by the Trustees of the plans by 5% to
On termination by the company (other than for cause), on
reflect a distribution of surplus. This augmentation will apply to that
retirement or on resignation for ‘good reason’ (i.e. resignation due
element of Mr Heslop’s pension earnings before 31st March 2000.
to not being elected or retained as a director of the company or any
merged company, or as a result of a change of control provided Other entitlements
that such resignation occurs on or within 30 days of the first In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the event
anniversary of the change in control), options will vest in full and thatExecutive Directorsservice agreements are terminated by their
remain exercisable for the full option term,and performance shares employing company, the following would apply:
will vest at the end of the performance period subject to
•in the case of awards under the GlaxoSmithKline Annual Investment
performance but not time-apportioned.
Plan, provided that their agreement is terminated other than for
cause, any deferred amount, any income and gains, are
• 2003 and thereafter
automatically distributed as soon as administratively practicable after
Awards for the above provisions apply,but options will be subject
termination. If they resign, retire or the termination is for cause,
to performance testing in all circumstances,and any options or
then any deferred amount is not distributed until the end of the
performance share awards made 12 months prior to the termination
minimum three-year deferral period
notice date will lapse.
• in line with the policy applicable to US senior executives, Dr Garnier
In addition,Dr Garnier and Dr Yamadaare entitled to receive one
and Dr Yamada are entitled to receive continuing medical and dental
year’s worth of pension contributions on termination.
insurance
Dr Garnier’s contract was executed on 3rd March 2004 and took
•following the merger, those participants in the legacy share option
effect from 1st January 2004. His contract will expire on 31st October
schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options
2007 being the last day of the month in which he will reach his 60th
over GlaxoSmithKline shares will receive an additional cash benefit
birthday. Dr Yamada’s contract was executed on 27th July 2004 and
equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option. This
took effect from 1st January 2004.Dr Yamada will retire from the
additional benefit is triggered when the new option is exercised or
Board and the company on 1st June 2006.Mr Coombe’s contract
lapses. To qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants had
was executed on 3rd March 2004, took effect from 1st January 2004
to retain their options until at least the second anniversary of the
and expired on 31st March 2005.
effective date of the merger.
Mr Heslop’s contract was executed on 16th March 2005 and took
Outside appointments for Executive Directors
effect from 1st April 2005. Mr Heslop’s contract will expire on 31st
Any outside appointments must be approved by the Chairman on
January 2014, being the last day of the month in which he reaches
behalf of the Board. It is the company’s policy that remuneration
his 60th birthday.
earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual
No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of a Executive Director.
notice period extending beyond the contract expiry dates.
Individual pension arrangements
The UK plan provides for a pension based on two-thirds of final salary
at age 60. The US cash balance plan provides for an annual
contribution and interest on the sum accumulated in the cash balance
plan but with no contractual promise to provide specific levels of
retirement income.
GSK Annual Report 2005
43
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees Other Non-Executive Directors
On appointment, each Non-Executive Director is provided with a letter
Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service
of appointment under which it is agreed that they serve the company
contracts but instead have letters of appointment. The company aims
as a Non-Executive Director until the conclusion of the Annual General
to provide Non-Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with
Meeting following the third anniversary of their appointment. In each
other companies of equivalent size and complexity. The fee structure
case this can be extended for a further term of three years by mutual
for the Non-Executive Directors is as follows:
agreement. NoDirectors serve a term longer than three years without
Per annum offering themselves for re-election by the shareholders.
Standard annual cash retainer fee £60,000
The following table shows the date of the letter of appointment of
Supplemental fees each Non-Executive Director:
Senior Independent Director,the AuditCommittee
Non-Executive Date of letter
Chairmanand Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000 Director of appointment
Chairmen of the Remuneration and
MrL Culp 09.06.03
Corporate Responsibility Committees £20,000
Sir Crispin Davis 09.06.03
Non-Executive Director undertaking Sir Deryck Maughan 26.05.04
intercontinental travel to meetings £5,000 per meeting Sir Ian Prosser 19.06.00
Automatic share allocation Dr R Schmitz 19.06.00
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders Dr L Shapiro 19.06.00
GlaxoSmithKline requires Non-Executive Directors to receive a Mr T de Swaan 21.12.05
significant part of their fees in the form of shares. With effect from Sir Robert Wilson 09.06.03
1st October 2004, at least 25% of the Non-Executive Directors’ total
fees, excluding the Chairman,are paid in the form of shares and TSRperformance graph
allocated to a share account. The Non-Executive Directors may also The following graph sets out the performance of the company relative
take the opportunity to invest part or all of the balance of their fees to the FTSE 100Index of which the company is a constituent and to
into the same share account. the performance comparator group since the merger on 27th
Exchange rate December 2000. The graph has been prepared in accordance with the
Fees that are paid in USDollars are converted at a rate of Regulations and is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards
£1/US$1.8162,being the exchange rate that applied on 29th July granted under any of the company’s incentive plans.
2004 when the new fee arrangements were approved by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation if their
appointment is terminated.
Chairman
Sir Christopher Hogg retired as Chairman with effect from 31st
December 2004. Sir Christopher Gent’s letter of appointment to the
Board was dated 26th May 2004, under which it was agreed that he
serve the company as Deputy Chairman until 31st December 2004
and from 1st January 2005 as Chairman until the conclusion of the
Annual General Meeting following the third anniversary of his
appointment. This may be extended for a further term of three years
by mutual agreement. He received fees at the rate of £240,000 per
annum plus an allocation of GlaxoSmithKline shares to the value of
£60,000 per annum whilst Deputy Chairman,and receives£400,000
per annum plus an allocation of GlaxoSmithKline shares to the value
of £100,000 per annum as Chairman.
Directors and Senior Management remuneration
The following tables set out for the Directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc
the remuneration earned in 2005, their interests in shares of
GlaxoSmithKline plc,their interests in share options and incentive
plans and their pension benefits. The members of the CET and the
Company Secretary, known as the Senior Management, also
participate in the same remuneration plans as the Executive Directors
and the aggregate remuneration and interests of the Directors and
Senior Management are also provided.
GSK Annual Report 2005
44
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
110
100
90
80
70
60
31/12/00 31/12/01 31/12/02 31/12/03 31/1 2/04 31/12 /05
GSK Total Return Index
GSK Pharma Peers Return Index
FTSE100 Total Return IndexRemuneration Report
continued
Annual remuneration
2005 2004
Total Total
Fees and Other Annual Deferred annual Fees and Other Annual annual
salary benefits bonus bonus remuneration salary benefits bonus remuneration
Footnote 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Current Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier a,b,c $1,582 $641 $2,812 $1,556 $6,591 $1,523 $786 $2,250 $4,559
Mr J Heslop £240 £9 £280 – £529 – – – –
Dr T Yamada a,b,c $763 $739 $1,110 $698 $3,310 $725 $577 $1,001 $2,303
TotalCurrent Executive Directors £1,528 £767 £2,436 £1,238 £5,969 £1,228 £745 £1,777 £3,750
Former Executive Director
Mr J Coombe b,c,d £139 £32 – – £171 £506 £9 – £515
Total Executive Directors £1,667 £799 £2,436 £1,238 £6,140 £1,734 £754 £1,777 £4,265
Current Non-Executive Directors
Mr L Culp $136 – – – $136 $97 – – $97
Sir Crispin Davis £70 – – – £70 £57 – – £57
Sir Christopher Gent £500 – – – £500 £175 – – £175
Sir Deryck Maughan $146 – – – $146 $57 – – $57
Sir Ian Prosser £100 – – – £100 £65 – – £65
Dr R Schmitz £95 – – – £95 £72 – – £72
Dr L Shapiro e $230 – – – $230 $182 – – $182
Sir Robert Wilson £90 – – – £90 £66 – – £66
Total Current Non-Executive Directors £1,137 – – – £1,137 £618 – – £618
Former Non-Executive Directors
Dr M Barzach f £58 – – – £58 £78 – – £78
Sir Christopher Hogg – – – – – £369 £1 – £370
Sir Roger Hurn – £5 – – £5 – – – –
Sir Peter Job – £5 – – £5 £57 – – £57
Mr J McArthur – – – – – $42 $18 – $60
Mr D McHenry – – – – – $42 – – $42
Sir Richard Sykes – £1 – – £1 – £1 – £1
Total Former Non-Executive Directors £58 £11 – – £69 £550 £12 – £562
Total Non-Executive Directors £1,195 £11 – – £1,206 £1,168 £12 – £1,180
TotalRemuneration £2,862 £810 £2,436 £1,238 £7,346 £2,902 £766 £1,777 £5,445
Remuneration for Directors on the US Payroll is reported in Dollars. Amounts have been converted to Sterling at the average rates foreachyear.
a) Following the merger, those participants in the legacy share option schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares
were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option. This additional benefit, known as the Exchange Offer Incentive
(EOI), is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value. To qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants had to retain these
options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger. During the year,Dr Garnier received $174,472 (2004 – $335,730) and Dr Yamada
received $167,405 (2004 – $nil) relating to options exercised (page50).
b) Dr Garnier is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation, in respect of which in 2005he received $110,000 (2004 –$110,000) in the form of
deferred stock units and 3,000 (2004 – 3,500) stock options with a grant price of $101.05 (2004 – $88.17). Dr Yamada is a member of the Advisory Board of
Quaker BioVentures, Inc., in respect of which in 2005 he received$12,000. Dr Yamada was previously a member of the Board of Directors of diaDexus, Inc., in
respect of which he received in 2004, 30,000 stock appreciation rights with a grant price of $0.40. These amounts are excluded from the table above and retained
by the Executive Directors. Mr Coombe is a member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens and aNon-Executive Director of HSBC Holdings plc, for which, in the
period from 1st January 2005 until his retirement from GlaxoSmithKline on 31st March 2005, he received £12,466 (2004 – £54,082 and 1,500 stock appreciation
rights with a grant price of € 72.54), and £4,583 (2004 – nil), respectively.
c) In 2001, following the merger, Dr Garnier, Mr Coombe and Dr Yamada were awarded a one-off special deferred bonus as members of the CET. Each was awarded
an amount equivalent to his annual salary on 31st December 2001 and this was notionally invested in GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs on 15th February 2002 and
deferred for three years. The deferred bonus vested on 15th February 2005 and the amounts paid were equivalent to the then value of GlaxoSmithKline shares
or ADSs notionally acquired in February 2002 plus dividends reinvested over the period. Dr Garnier received $1,556,324,and Dr Yamada received $697,663. Mr
Coombe waived his deferred bonus of £383,924. The company made a contribution to the pension plan in 2005 of £383,924 to enhance his pension entitlements.
This amount is not included in the table above.
GSK Annual Report 2005
45
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
GSK Annual Report 2005
46
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
d) Mr Coombe waived his prorated 2005 bonus of £106,870 and his 2004 annual bonus of £650,370. The company made a contribution to the pension plan in
2005 of £106,870 and £650,370 to enhance his pension entitlements.These amounts arenot included within fees and salary above.
e) Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board for which she received fees of $85,000 (2004 – $85,000), of which $30,000 (2004 –
$30,000) was in the form of ADSs. These are included within fees and salary above.
f) Dr Barzach received fees of € 84,244 (2004 – € 83,005) from GlaxoSmithKline France for healthcare consultancy provided. These are included within fees and salary
above.
None of the above Directors received expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.
Mr de Swaan joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1st January 2006. No remuneration is shown for him in the table above.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
2005 2004
Total Cash Shares/ADSs Total Cash Shares/ADSs
Fees and salary 000 000 000 000 000 000
Current Non-Executive Directors
Mr LCulp $136 – $136 $97 – $97
Sir Crispin Davis £70 – £70 £57 – £57
Sir Christopher Gent £500 £400 £100 £175 £140 £35
Sir Deryck Maughan $146 – $146 $57 – $57
Sir Ian Prosser £100 £50 £50 £65 £28 £37
Dr R Schmitz £95 £57 £38 £72 £38 £34
Dr L Shapiro $145 $109 $36 $97 $75 $22
Sir Robert Wilson £90 £68 £22 £66 £52 £14
Former Non-Executive Directors
Dr M Barzach – – – £22 £19 £3
Sir Christopher Hogg – – – £369 £150 £219
Sir Peter Job – – – £57 – £57
Mr JMcArthur – – – $42 $37 $5
Mr D McHenry – – – $42 $37 $5
Total £1,090 £635 £455 £1,066 £508 £558
The table above sets out the remuneration received as Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline. Accordingly, it does not include Dr Barzach’s
fees received from GlaxoSmithKline France for healthcare consultancy provided,or Dr Shapiro’s fees received as a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s
Scientific Advisory Board.
From the formation of GSK, the Non-Executive Directors,have been required to take at least a part of their total fees in the form of shares
allocated to a share account. From 1st October 2004, at least 25% of Non-Executive Directors fees, except those of the Chairman, see page
44for further details,must be taken under the fee allocation arrangement.Non-Executive Directorscan then elect to receive either all or part
of the remaining cash payment in the form of further shares or ADSs. The total value of these shares and ADSs as at the date of award, together
with the cash payment, forms their total fees, which are included within the Annual remuneration table under ‘Fees and salary’. The table
above sets out the value of their fees received in the form of cash and shares and ADSs.
The shares and ADSs are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts and are included within
the Directors’ interests tables on page48. The accumulated balance of these shares and ADSs, together with notional dividends subsequently
reinvested, are not paid out to the Non-Executive Directors until retirement. Upon retirement, the Non-Executive Directors will receive either
the shares and ADSs or a cash amount equal to the value of the shares and ADSs at the date of retirement.Remuneration Report
continued
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares and ADSs held by each Non-Executive Director in relation to their fees received
as Board members as at 31st December 2005,together with the movements in their account over the year.
Number of shares and ADSs
Dividends
Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements Footnote At 31.12.04 Elected reinvested Paid out At 31.12.05
Current Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Sir Crispin Davis 7,333 5,192 233 – 12,758
Sir Christopher Gent 2,921 7,349 116 – 10,386
Sir Ian Prosser 12,520 3,728 342 – 16,590
Dr R Schmitz 10,771 2,810 317 – 13,898
Dr L Shapiro 1,676 47 – – 1,723
Sir Robert Wilson 1,337 1,665 45 – 3,047
ADSs
Mr LCulp 3,348 2,769 110 – 6,227
Sir Deryck Maughan 1,248 2,947 47 – 4,242
Dr L Shapiro 2,608 752 66 – 3,426
Former Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Sir Christopher Hogg a 48,000 – – 48,000 –
Sir Roger Hurn 11,305 – 309 1,330 10,284
Sir Peter Job a 17,638 – – 17,638 –
Dividends are notionally reinvested at the end of the financial year in which payment is made.
The table below sets out the settlement of former Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements on their leaving the Board:
Value of awards Value of awards Payments
Date of leaving on allocation on leaving in 2005
Prior years
Sir Christopher Hogg a,b 31.12.04 £565,857 £586,559 £586,559
Sir Roger Hurn c 05.06.03 £18,198
Sir Peter Job a,b 31.12.04 £225,360 £215,538 £215,538
a) Awards to Sir Christopher Hogg and Sir Peter Job under the Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements were settled in full, with a transfer of shares in January
2005.
b) The change in value of awards between allocation and leaving is attributable to dividends re-invested and the change in share price between the dates of award
and the dates of leaving.
c) On leaving the Board, Sir Roger Hurn elected to receive the settlement of his Non-Executive Directorsshare arrangements in 40 quarterly cash payments.
GSK Annual Report 2005
47
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Directors’ interests
The following beneficial interests of the Directors of the company are shown in the register maintained by the company in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985:
Shares ADSs
24th February 31st December 1st January 24th February 31st December 1st January
Footnote 2006 2005 2005 2006 2005 2005
Current Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier a – – – 226,538 225,896 204,430
Mr J Heslop b,d 20,512 18,885 17,547 – – –
Dr T Yamada a – – – 73,626 67,512 60,923
Former Executive Director
Mr J Coombe c,d,e 198,665 186,652 – – –
Current Non-Executive Directors
Mr L Culp f – – – 6,227 6,227 3,348
Sir Crispin Davis f 17,925 17,925 12,500 – – –
Sir Christopher Gent f 10,386 10,386 2,921 – – –
Sir Deryck Maughan f – – – 4,242 4,242 1,248
Sir Ian Prosser f 17,500 17,500 13,430 – – –
Dr R Schmitz f 13,898 13,898 10,771 2,840 2,840 2,840
Dr L Shapiro f 1,723 1,723 1,676 7,401 7,401 5,958
Mr T de Swaan f – – – – – –
Sir Robert Wilson f 4,175 4,175 2,465 – – –
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
a) Includes the equivalent number of ADSs purchased in the GlaxoSmithKline Stock Fund within the 401(k) plan.
b) In the case of Mr Heslop, the opening number of shares is shown at 1st April 2005.
c) In the case of Mr Coombe, the closing number of shares is shown at 31st March 2005.
d) Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan for Mr Heslop totalling 1,013 shares at 31st December 2005 (1st April 2005 –829) and
1,054shares at 24th February 2006, and for Mr Coombe 829 shares at 31st March 2005 (1st January 2005 – 763).
e) Mr Coombe left the Board on 31st March 2005, therefore his interests in the company on24th February 2006 are not included in the table above.
f)Includes shares and ADSs received as part or all of their fees as described under Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements on page46. Dividends received on
these shares and ADSs were converted to shares and ADSs as at 31st December 2005. These are also included in the Directors’ interests above.
The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at 24th February 2006 reflect changes between the end of the financial year and that date.
GSK Annual Report 2005
48
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Share options
Options – ADSs Granted
Footnote At 31.12.04 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.05
Dr JP Garnier a 3,844,648 – – – – 79,054 3,765,594
Dr T Yamada 1,223,358 – – – – 74,868 1,148,490
Options – Shares Granted
At 31.12.04 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.05
Mr JHeslop a,b 365,719 27.10.05 01.12.08–31.05.09 £11.45 816 1,031 365,504
Mr JCoombe c 1,434,249 n/a n/a n/a n/a – 1,434,249
a)As part of the main option grant that occured on 21st February 2006, with a vestingperiod of1st January 2006to31st December 2008, Dr Garnier was awarded
500,000 ADS options with a grant price of $51.02. As part of the same grant, Mr Heslop was awarded 231,000 share options with a grant price of £14.68. Dr
Yamada did not receive agrantof options due to his impending retirement from GlaxoSmithKline.
b) Mr Heslop joined theBoard on 1st April 2005. These details cover the period from 1st April 2005 to 31st December 2005. The grant included in the table above
relates to theSharesave plan.
c)Mr Coomberetired on31st March 2005.These details cover the period from 1st January to 31st March 2005.
For those options outstanding at 31st December 2005, the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for those above and below the market
price for a GlaxoSmithKline share at the year end are given in the table below. Those for Mr Coombe are on the following page.
Vesting date Lapse date
Weighted average
Dr JPGarnier grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options $55.99 2,033,448 23.11.01 28.11.04 22.11.08 27.11.11
$55.99 2,033,448
Below market price at year end: vested options $36.96 812,146 21.11.99 03.12.05 20.11.06 02.12.12
unvested options $44.15 920,000 15.12.06 02.12.07 14.12.13 01.12.14
$40.78 1,732,146
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2005 $49.00 3,765,594
Vesting date Lapse date
Weighted average
Dr TYamada grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options $56.35 660,591 23.11.01 28.11.04 22.11.08 27.11.11
$56.35 660,591
Below market price at year end: vested options $37.04 211,899 21.11.99 03.12.05 20.11.06 02.12.12
unvested options $44.15 276,000 15.12.06 02.12.07 14.12.13 01.12.14
$41.06 487,899
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2005 $49.85 1,148,490
Vesting date Lapse date
Weighted average
Mr JHeslop grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options £18.17 132,838 31.07.01 28.11.04 30.07.08 27.11.11
£18.17 132,838
Below market price at year end: vested options £13.29 115,600 25.02.03 03.12.05 24.02.10 02.12.12
unvested options £11.91 117,066 28.10.06 01.12.08 31.05.09 01.12.14
£12.59 232,666
Total share options as at 31st December 2005 £14.62 365,504
GSK Annual Report 2005
49
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Vesting date Lapse date
Weighted average
Mr JCoombe(to 31st March 2005) grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at period end:vested options £16.97 867,218 04.08.02 31.03.11 31.03.07 30.09.11
unvested options £12.70 276,000 31.03.08 31.03.08 30.09.08 30.09.08
£15.94 1,143,218
Below market price at period end: unvested options £11.78 291,031 01.12.05 31.03.12 31.05.06 30.09.12
£11.78 291,031
Total share options as at 31st March 2005 £15.10 1,434,249
The lapse dates for Mr Coombe’s options have been modified to reflect his retirement in 2005.
GSKgrants share options to Executive Directors and Senior Managers on an annual basis. An initial grant was made following completion of the
merger in March 2001. The measurement period for the options granted in March 2001 commenced on 1st January 2001. The measurement
periods for options granted in November 2001 and 2002,and December 2003 and 2004 commenced on 1st January 2002, 2003, 2004and
2005, respectively. The Directors hold these options under the various share option plans referred to in Note37to theffinancial statements,
‘Employee share schemes’. The measurement period for options granted in February 2006 commenced on 1st January 2006. None of the other
Directors had an interest in any option over the company’s shares.
Following the merger, each of the Directors above elected to exchange their outstanding options in the legacy share option plans for options
overGSKshares. These Directors, and all other participants in those legacy schemes who made such an election, will receive an additional
benefit of a cash sum equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option. This additional benefit will be given when the new option is
exercised or lapses.
Prior to 2003, only those share options granted to the then Executive Directors were subject to a performance condition. In order for the options
to vest in full, business performance EPS growth, excluding currency and exceptional items, had on average to be at least three percentage
points per annum more than the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over any three-year performance period.
For share options granted in 2003 and 2004 vesting increases on a straight-line basis for EPS performance between the hurdles set out in the
following table.
Annualised growth in EPS Percentage of award vesting
> RPI+ 5% 100%
RPI+4% 75%
RPI+3% 50%
< RPI + 3% 0%
In respect of the 2003 grant, if the performance condition is not met after the three-year measurement period, the performance will be
measured again over the four financial years following the date of grant of the options. If the performance condition is not met at the end of
four years, the option will lapse.
The options granted to the Executive Directors in 2004were subject to the same performance condition as set in 2003, but to the extent
that the performance conditions have not been met at the end of the three-year performance period, the option will lapse with no retesting
being permitted.
2005 2004
Grant Market
Options exercised Date Number price price Gain Gain
Dr JPGarnier 14.02.05 79,054 $22.07 $47.74 $2,029,561 $6,621,049
Dr T Yamada 06.12.05 16,400 $22.36 $50.52 $461,824 –
07.12.05 58,468 $22.36 $50.10 $1,622,107 –
Mr J Heslop 23.12.05 1,031 £9.16 £14.66 £5,665 –
At the average exchange rate for the year, the above gain made by Dr Garnier amounted to £1,115,143. An EOI benefit of $174,472 (£95,864)
was paid to Dr Garnier on exercise of these options. This benefit has been included in the table on page45.
At the average rate for the year, the above gain made by Dr Yamada amounted to £1,145,017. An EOI benefit of $167,405(£91,981) was
paid to Dr Yamada on the exercise of these options. This benefit has been included in the table on page45.
Mr Coombe did not exercise any share options during 2005 or 2004.
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31st December 2005 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £15.44 and £11.75,
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADSs during the year ended 31st December 2005 were $53.53 and $44.48,
respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2005 was £14.69 (31st December 2004 – £12.22) and for a
GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $50.48 (31st December 2004 – $47.39). The prices on24th February 2006 were £14.61per GlaxoSmithKline share
and $51.10per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
GSK Annual Report 2005
50
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Incentive plans
Performance Share Plan awards
Dr JP Garnier – ADSs Market Additional
Vested & price on Vested & exercised ADS by Vested & Number
Unvested deferred at date of Market dividends Unvested deferred at granted
Performance period at 31.12.04 31.12.04 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.05 31.12.05 in 2006
01.01.01 – 31.12.03 – 35,515 – – – – – 1,160 – 36,675 –
01.01.02 – 31.12.04 70,000 – $51.95 35,000 $46.67 $1,633,450 35,000 – – – –
01.01.03 – 31.12.05 70,000 – $37.25 – – – – – 70,000 – –
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 205,990 – $44.57 – – – 6,773 212,763 – –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 200,000 – $43.73 – – – 4,881 204,881 – –
01.01.06 – 31.10.08 – – £51.02 – – – – – – – 220,000
The value of awards deferred by Dr Garnier at vesting was $1,496,608.
Dr TYamada – ADSs Market Additional
Vested & price on Vested & exercised ADS by Vested & Number
Unvested deferred at date of Market dividends Unvested deferred at granted
Performance period at 31.12.04 31.12.04 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.05 31.12.05 in 2006
01.01.02 – 31.12.04 20,000 – $51.95 10,000 $46.67 $466,700 10,000 – – –
01.01.03 – 31.12.05 20,000 – $37.25 – – – – – 20,000 – –
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 61,797 – $44.57 – – – – 2,032 63,829 – –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 60,000 – $43.73 – - – – 1,464 61,464 – –
Mr JHeslop – Shares Market Additional
Vested & price on Vested & exercised shares by Vested & Number
Unvested deferred at date of Market dividends Unvested deferred at granted
Performance period at 1.4.05 31.12.04 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.05 31.12.05 in 2006
01.01.02 – 31.12.04 5,000 – £18.15 2,500 £12.35 £30,875 2,500 – – – –
01.01.03 – 31.12.05 5,000 – £11.79 – – – – – 5,000 – –
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 5,000 – £12.70 – – – – – 5,000 – –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 15,500 – £11.63 – – – – 385 15,885 – –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 – – £14.68 – – – – – – – 100,000
Mr JCoombe – Shares Market Additional
Vested & price on Vested & exercised shares by Vested & Number
Unvested deferred at date of Market dividends Unvested deferred at granted
Performance period at 31.12.04 31.12.04 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.3.05 31.12.05 in 2006
01.01.02 – 31.12.04 40,000 – £18.15 20,000 £12.35 £247,000 20,000 – – – –
01.01.03 – 31.12.05 40,000 – £11.79 – – – – – 40,000 – –
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 123,622 – £12.70 – – – 40,000 1,036 84,658 – –
On 1st April 2005, the total number of Performance Share Plans (PSP) awards granted to Mr Coombe for the performance period 1st January
2004 to 31st December 2006 was pro-rated to reflect his retirement before the end of the performance period.ThePSPawards for the
performance period 1st January 2006 to 31st December 2008 were made on 21st February 2006 when the market price was £14.68per share
and $51.02per ADS. Dr Garnier was awarded220,000ADSs,and Mr Heslop100,000shares. All are unvested.
At the average exchange rate for the year, the above gains by Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada amounted to £897,500 and £256,429, respectively.
ThePSPis a medium-term incentive scheme introduced during 2001. The PSP replaces the LTIPlan and the Mid-Term Incentive Plan operated,
respectively,by Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham.
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant three-year measurement period
and is dependent on GSK’s performance during that period as described on pages 40 and 41. The share awards were previously granted annually
in November or December, but from 2005 theyaregranted in February of the following year.
The measurement period commences on the 1st January, in the year in which they are granted, ending after three years on 31st December. The
three-year measurement period for the awards with a performance period commencing 1st January 2003ended on 31st December 2005. Based
on the performance of GSKduring that period, 50% of the award vested in February 2006.Forawardswith a performance period commencing
on 1st January 2005and subsequent awards, dividends are reinvested on the PSPs awarded to members of the CET. Dividends are reinvested in
the quarter in which payment is made. Under the terms of the PSP, US participants may defer receipt of all or part of their vested awards.
Prior to the performance period beginning 1st January 2004, awards were in two parts: half can be earned by reference to GSK’s TSR
performance compared to the FTSE 100, of which the company is a constituent, and the other half of the awardwill be earnedif the company’s
business performance EPS growth, excluding currency and exceptional items, is on average at least three percentage points peryearmore than
the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index over the three-year performance period. For these awards, if GSKis ranked in the top 20 of the FTSE
100 based on TSR performance, then all of the shares in this part of the award will vest. For the 50th position in the FTSE100, 40%of the
shares will vest. If GSKis ranked below the 50th position, none of the sharessubject to this part of the awardwill vest. Between the 20th and
50th positions, vesting will occur on a sliding scale.
GSK Annual Report 2005
51
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
The following vesting table applies to the awards withperformance periodsfrom 1st January 2004 to 31st December 2006and 1st January
2005 to 31st December 2007. It also applies to the awards made on 21st February 2006.
TSR rank with 14 companies & GlaxoSmithKline* Percentage of award vesting**
1 100%
2 100%
3 90%
4 80%
5 70%
6 60%
7 50%
Median 35%
Below median 0%
Vested and Additional ADS Vested and
deferred by dividends deferred
participations reinvested participations
Mid-Term Incentive Plan – ADSs at 31.12.04 in 2005 at 31.12.05
Dr JP Garnier 163,138 5,326 168,464
The Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) was a share award scheme operated by SmithKline Beecham. The plan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further participations have been granted.
Where a final award of ADSs is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director. Dr Garnier deferred receipt of the full amounts
vested in 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. The deferred awards, together with any additional ADSs subsequently received through dividend
reinvestment, arenot included in the Directors’ interests table on page48since they are retained in the MTIP until paid out.
Average
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) – ADSs At 31.12.04 At 31.12.05 grant price
Dr L Shapiro 1,487 872 $57.25
2005 2004
Options exercised Date Number Grant price Market price Gain Gain
Dr L Shapiro 21.12.05 615 $40.54 $50.91 $6,380 –
All SARs held by Dr Shapiro hada grant price above the market price of a GlaxoSmithKline ADS at31st December 2005.
Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). Dr Shapiro was a member of SmithKline Beecham’s SAB from
1993 until the completion of the merger with Glaxo Wellcome. Along with other members of the SAB, she received annual grants of SmithKline
Beecham SARs which, in general, vested three years from the date of grant and will expire 10 years from the date of grant. Grants of SARs to
SAB members ceased in 1999.
SARs entitle the holder to a cash sum at a future date based on share price growth between the date of grant and the date of exercise.
Full provision is made in the financial statements for accrued gains on SARs from the date of grant. In connection with the merger, all previously
granted SARs became immediately exercisable.
GSK Annual Report 2005
52
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
* The performance comparator group for theseawardscomprised 14 other companies
and GlaxoSmithKline. Both Aventis and Sanofi-Synthelabo were in the comparator
groupprior to their merger to form Sanofi-Aventis. For the purposes of calculating
TSRover the performance period for the awards granted in December 2003, the
starting price of the shares of the two individual companies will be compared to the
price of the merged company at the end of the performance period, adjusted by the
merger ratio. Dividends will be treated as having been reinvested during the
performance period.
**TSR is measured on a prorata basis. Where GlaxoSmithKline’s performance falls
between two of the comparators, the level of vesting will be determined by the actual
relative level of TSR rather than simple ranking.Remuneration Report
continued
Pensions
The accrued annual pension benefits and transfer values for Executive Directors on retirement are set out below.
The regulations require disclosure of the accrued benefit at the end of the year, the change in accrued benefit over the year, the transfer value
at both the beginning and end of the year, and the change in the transfer value over the year. The Listing Rules require additional disclosure
of the change in accrued benefit net of inflation and the transfer value of this change.Pensions for the Executive Directors have been disclosed
in the currency in which the pension is payable.
Personal Change in
Change in contributions accrued Transfer value
Accrued Accrued accrued made to the Transfer Transfer Change benefit over of change
benefit at benefit at benefit scheme during value at value in transfer year net in accrued
31.12.04 (b) 31.12.05 over year the year 31.12.04 (a) at 31.12.05 value (b) of inflation benefit (b)
000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Current Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier $1,040 $1,093 $53 – $11,638 $13,240 $1,602 $17 $1,602
Mr JHeslop £44 £75 £31 £9 £642 £1,260 £609 £30 £523
Dr TYamada $140 $168 $28 – $1,526 $1,985 $459 $24 $459
Former Executive Directors
Mr J Coombe £345 £337 £(8) – £7,666 £7,955 £289 £(19) £(351)
a)Dr Yamada’stransfer value at 31st December 2004 hasincreased by $262,469from that previously disclosed as the result of an adjustment to his employment
contract in 2004. Dr Yamada’s accrued benefit at 31st December 2004 has decreased by $25,066 reflecting an adjustment to his retirement age.
b) The change in transfer value and the transfer value of change in accrued benefit are shown net of contributions made by the individual.
Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada are members of the all employee US cash balance pension plan, under which GlaxoSmithKline makes annual
contributions calculated as a percentage of the employee’s base salary and bonus.The fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance
based on the 30-year treasury bond rate to provide a cash sum at retirement. This cash sum is used to purchase a pension at retirement based
on the annuity rates applicable at that time. Neither has entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases, other than by reducing their
own initial pension.
The normal retirement age under this plan is 65 years of age. DrGarnier’s pension arrangements have been brought into line with the terms of
his service agreement and the assumed retirement age reduced to 60. Similarly Dr Yamada’s assumed retirement age hadbeen reduced to 62.
The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Garnier’s plan has increased by $1,602,236 over the year as a result of phased transfers from a previous
scheme, the further accumulation of interest and contributions paid by the company.
The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Yamada’s plan has increased by $458,737 over the year as a result of the further accumulation of interest
and contributions paid by the company.
Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada are also members of the USRetirement Savings Plan, a savings scheme open to all USemployees and the Executive
Supplemental Savings Plan, a savings scheme open to executives to restore US government limits imposed on the Retirement Savings Plan.
Contributions to both plans are invested in a range of funds and the value of the accumulated funds are paid at retirement. During 2005
contributions of £84,710 ($154,172) were paid into these two schemes by the company in respect of Dr Garnier, of which £2,308 ($4,200)
was invested in GSK shares in a stock ownership account. In respect of Dr Yamada, contributions of £40,483 ($73,679) were paid into the
scheme of which £2,308 ($4,200) was invested in GSK shares in a stock ownership account. The shares held in these accounts are included
within the Director’s interests tables on page48.
Mr Heslop’s transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The transfer
value represents the present value of future payments to be made under the pension plan. Mr Heslop’s annual accrued benefit has increased
by £31,329 (£29,900 excluding the effects of inflation), and the transfer value less personal contributions has increased by £608,999 over the
year. The increase in Mr Heslop’s pensionable salary of £127,380 is the primary reason for the increase in transfer value.
Mr Coombe’s transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The
transfer value represents the present value of future payments to be made under the pension plan. Mr Coombe’s transfer value increased by
£289,211 but his accrued benefit fell by £8,201. This decline is due to Mr Coombe opting to receive a lumpsum on retirement.
Mr Coombe waived his 2005 bonus of £106,870. The company made a contribution to the pension plan in 2005 of £1,141,164 to enhance
his pension benefits, being his 2005 bonus, his special deferred bonus of £383,924 and his 2004 bonus of £650,370.
GSK Annual Report 2005
53
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Directors and Senior Management
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management asagroup
(‘the group’). For the purposes of this disclosure, the group is defined as the Directors, members of the CET and the Company Secretary. In
respect of the financial year 2005, the total compensation paid to members of the group for the periods during which they served in that
capacity was £17,538,674, the aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits, net of inflation,was £78,814and the aggregate payment to
defined contribution schemes was £374,156. During 2005,members of the group were granted4,080 options under the Sharesave scheme,
and were awarded 14,542 shares and 31,290 ADSs through the reinvestment of dividends in the Performance Share Plan. At24th February
2006, the then-current members of the group (comprising24persons) owned495,389shares and474,221ADSs, constituting less than 1%
of the issued share capital of the company. The group also held, at that date: options to purchase5,372,577shares and8,145,814ADSs;
910,359shares and1,557,146ADSs awarded under the Performance Share Plan, including those shares and ADSs that are vested and deferred;
8,103shares and232,732ADSs under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan, including those shares and ADSs that are vested
and deferred;872ADSs awarded under the legacy SmithKline Beecham Stock Appreciation Rights and6,320shares awarded under the
Restricted Share Plan. These holdings were issued under the various executive share option plans described in Note37to thefifnancial statements,
‘Employee share schemes’.
Directors’ interests in contracts
Except as described in Note33to thefifnancial statements, ‘Related party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no Director
or connected person had any material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Group’s business with a Group company.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
1st March 2006
GSK Annual Report 2005
54
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERGSK Annual Report 2005
55
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
The Operating and financial review and prospects discusses the
operating and financial performance, the financial outlook and the
financial resources of the Group. The results for each year, which have
been prepared under IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union,
are compared primarily with the results for the preceding year under
the following headings:
Financial trends and ratios 56
2005 Year– results for the year to 31st December 2005
compared to the year to 31st December 2004 57
Financial position and resources– at 31st December 2005 66
Outlookand Risk Factors 71
2004 Year– results for the year to 31st December 2004
compared to the year to 31st December 2003 75
The reconciliation to US accounting principles is set out in Note 38 to
the financial statements.
Accounting presentation
With effect from 1st January 2005, GSK has moved to reporting its
financial results in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as required by a European Union Regulation issued
in 2002. This report is prepared under IFRS, as adopted for use in the
European Union. All comparative figures are presented on this basis,
except that GSK has taken advantage of an exemption which permits
financial instruments to be accounted for and presented on a UK
GAAP basis in 2004and 2003 and only in accordance with IAS32 and
IAS39 from 1st January 2005. Full details of the major differences
from UKGAAP as they apply to GSK are given inNote38to the
financial statements, IFRS transition.Information prepared under IFRS
is not directly comparable with that prepared under UKGAAP.
Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates
based on the most recent data from independent external sources,
and where appropriate, are valued in sterling at relevant exchange
rates. Figures quoted for product market share reflect sales by GSK
and licensees.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s practice
to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to
determine the results of overseas companies in sterling had remained
unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER% represents
growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual
exchange rates.
Annual Report on Form 20-F
For the purpose of USreporting requirements applicable to first-time
adopters of IFRS, GSK hereby incorporates by reference from its
Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2004, the Five year record of selected
financial information on pages 160 to 162 thereof, the discussion of
the 2004 Year on pages 61 to 70 in the Operating and financial review
and prospects section thereof and the Financial statements and
supporting notes on pages 87 to 152 thereof.GSK Annual Report 2005
56
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial trends and ratios
2005 Growth 2004 Growth 2003
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m
Turnover –Pharmaceuticals 18,661 8 9 17,100 1 (6) 18,114
–Consumer Healthcare 2,999 2 4 2,886 3 (2) 2,956
Total 21,660 7 8 19,986 1 (5) 21,070
Cost of sales (4,764) 8 9 (4,360) – (5) (4,577)
Selling, general and administration (7,250) – 1 (7,201) (5) (9) (7,888)
Research and development (3,136) 8 8 (2,904) 8 1 (2,865)
Other operating income 364 235 310
Operating profit 6,874 16 19 5,756 6 (5) 6,050
Profit before taxation 6,732 13 16 5,779 9 (3) 5,954
Profitafter taxation for the year 4,816 17 20 4,022 4 (7) 4,308
Profit attributable to minority interests 127 114 107
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,689 3,908 4,201
Earnings per share (pence) 82.6p 18 21 68.1p 6 (6) 72.3p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 82.0p 68.0p 72.1p
Research and development
Pharmaceuticals 3,030 2,797 2,770
Consumer Healthcare 106 107 95
Total 3,136 2,904 2,865
Net finance costcover
Netfinance costs 194 186 153
Cover 36times 32times 40times
Net finance cost cover is profit before tax plus net finance costs,divided by net finance costs.
Tax rate 28.5% 30.4% 27.7%
Borrowings
Net debt 1,237 1,984 1,648
Gearing 16% 33% 29%
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage oftotalequity.
Exchange rates
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many countriesand earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies. Its results are reported
in sterling and are affected bymovements in exchange rates between sterling and othercurrencies.
Average exchange rates prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and associated
undertakings and joint ventures into sterling. Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of those undertakings. The currencies which
most influence these translations are the USdollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.GSK Annual Report 2005
57
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
2005 Year
World economy World market – pharmaceuticals
GDP growth picked up in the first part of the year, but the impact of Global pharmaceutical sales increased by7% in 2005 to £302billion.
higher oil prices later in the year saw leading indicators turn World market by Value % of Growth
downward and business confidence weaken in most major countries. geographic region £bn total £%
Manufacturing and trade strengthened during the year after an initial USA 132.0 44 3
dip. Modest globalexpansion continued to be led by the USA and Europe 86.8 29 8
China, wheremomentum was maintained in contrast to most other Germany 16.4 5 8
regions excluding Japan and India.However,US GDP growth slowed France 15.9 5 9
in the fourth quarter of 2005 to an annual rate of 3.5% compared UK 10.5 3 –
with 4.2% in 2004,reflecting a slow down in consumer spending and Italy 9.9 3 3
in federal government spending. During 2005, US interest rates Japan 32.5 11 4
increased through a series of rises from 2.25% to 4.25%. There are Asia Pacific 20.5 7 13
mixed views on the outlook for the US economy in 2006. Latin America 13.7 4 15
GDP growth in China again exceeded expectations at9.9%and was Middle East, Africa 9.8 3 17
also robust in India, where continued expansion in services such as Canada 7.0 2 14
information technology remained strong. Global trade arrangements, Total 302.3 100 6
including those with China, were again in the spotlight. There were
agreements between the EU and China and between the USAand Growth in the US market has slowed to3%butit stillrepresents44%
China on textile imports in 2005, but the World Trade Organisation of the global prescription pharmaceutical market comparedwith30%
ministerial talks in Hong Kong at the end of the yearmade only a decade ago.
modest progress towards agreement on the reduction of trade
At 30th September 2005, GSK heldsecondposition in the world
barriers.
pharmaceutical market with a market share of6.3%, behind Pfizer
The Japanese economy expanded strongly, particularly in the fourth with a market share of8.9%. GSK hadeightofthe world’s top60
quarter, driven by a recovery in domestic demand, underpinned by a pharmaceutical products. These were Avandia, Flixonase,
strengthening labour market which saw full-time employment expand Imigran/Imitrex, Lamictal, Seretide/Advair, Seroxat/Paxil, Wellbutrin
for the first time in seven years.Both business confidence and exports and Zofran.
grew during the year. Part of this confidence stemmed from the
continued reforms in the banking sector. GDP growth for the year was World market – Value % of Growth
5.5%, with a similar rise forecast for 2006, and the Nikkei share index top five therapeutic classes £bn total CER% £%
rose to a four-year high on the strength of better-than-expected GDP Cardiovascular 50.7 17 7 6
data. Central nervous system 49.7 16 6 4
Alimentary tract and metabolic 36.6 12 6 5
Oil prices and higher commodity prices slowed growth in the 12
Anti-infectives (bacterial,
Eurozone nations and economic forecasts for the zone were
viral and fungal) excluding
downgraded during the year.With increased concerns about rising
vaccines 32.2 11 7 5
inflation,the European Central Bankraised interest rates by0.25%
Respiratory 20.7 7 8 7
to 2.25%, the first changein rates since June 2003. Weak domestic
demand and theEuro’s lack of resilience to external events were (Note: data based on 12 months to 30thSeptember 2005.)
features of theEurozone in 2005. In the UK, GDP growth of1.8%
was recorded, with a rate ofaround 2%predicted for 2006. The Bank Pharmaceutical turnover
of England cut interest rates in the middle of the year to 4.5%on the
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
grounds that economic growth was subdued,but predicted growth
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The sterling growth
would pick up in 2006, reflecting a recovery in domestic demand and
rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by
foreign trade.
therapeutic area on page59and by geographic region on page60.
Exchange Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2005 was £18,661million compared
with £17,100million in 2004, an increase of8% CER. In sterling terms
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US
turnoverincreased9%,principally due to thestrengthof theEuro and
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
other International currencies.Within the Group’s portfolio, turnover
In 2005, the dollar strengthened by over 10% against the pound, of new products first launched in a major market within the last five
rising to $1.72 at the year-end following two years ofweakness. years accounted for 24% of total turnover and grew by 30% to
Both the Euro and Japanese Yen year-end rates weakened against £4,446 million. Turnover of the more established, franchise products
the pound by just over 3%. amounted to £10,965 million,representing 59% of total turnover,
and increased 4% compared with last year. Turnover of older
products, now less actively promoted, was £3,250 million, a decline
of 1%, representing 17% of total turnover.2005 Year
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area Total Wellbutrinturnoverfell 2% to £739 million. Wellbutrin IRand
SRsales fell 68% to £92 million due to generic competition,but this
GSK’s ability to continue to deliver pharmaceutical turnover growth,
was largely offset by the very strong performance of Wellbutrin XL(up
is primarily due to an exceptionally broad product portfolio of fast-
38% to £647 million).
growing, high-value products. Sales of GSK’s largest product,
Seretide/Advair,were up 22% to £3.0 billion and continued to gain The strong growth of GSK’s epilepsy and bi-polar disorder treatment
market shareacross all regions. Market shareby value in the anti- Lamictalcontinued, with sales up 24% to £849 million, driven by the
asthma and COPD therapy class was 27% in Europe and 33% in the indication for the maintenance treatment of bi-polar disorder.
USA, an increase of 2 percentage points in both cases compared with
Requipsales rose 34% to £156 million. By Q1 2006,weekly new
2004. Sales of diabetes treatments were also strong, with
prescriptions for the product have quadrupled in the USA since it was
Avandia/Avandametup 18% to £1.3 billion. GSK launched Avandia
launched forrestlesslegssyndrome (RLS) in Q2 2005. In the EU, final
for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in 1999 and a combination
approval of Requip (Adartrel) for RLS is expected during Q1 2006.
product, Avandamet, for blood sugar control in 2002. Theproduct
groupwas expanded further in February 2006 with the launch in the Anti-virals
USA of a fixed-dose combination treatment, Avandaryl, which Global HIV product sales grew 5% to £1.6 billion, with sales from
combines Avandiawith a sulfonylurea. EU approval is expected in Q2 new products Epzicom/Kivexa and Lexiva (together more than
2006. In 2005,Avandia/Avandametachieved a market share by value doubling to £226million) offsetting the performance of Trizivir(down
in oral anti-diabetics of 14% in Europe and 35% in the USA, up 3 and 6% to £303 million) and Epivir (down 12% to £261 million). Sales of
6 percentage points,respectively. the herpes treatment Valtrex grew 21% to £695million. Performance
is being driven by the USA (up 26% to £470 million) where the
product is the clear market leader in treatments for genital herpes.
Anti-bacterials
Anti-bacterial sales declined3% worldwide. In the USA the decline
was27%reflecting increased generic competition.
Metabolic
The diabetes treatments Avandia/Avandametcontinuedto perform
very strongly, with overall sales of £1.3 billion,up 18%. In the USA,
sales grew 14% to £977 million. Avandia/Avandamet are also
establishingstrong positionsin Europe, with sales rising 52% to £157
million,helped by the launch of Avandamet. Sales in International
markets rose 13% to £195 million. Two major outcome studies
Other fast growing products were Lamictal for epilepsy/bipolar
involving Avandiaare due to report by the end of 2006. ADOPT
disorder, up 24% (£0.8 billion), Valtrexfor herpes,up 21% (£0.7
investigates first line use of Avandiain type 2 diabetesand DREAM
billion), Coregfor heart disease, up 32% (£0.6 billion) and vaccines,
the earlier use of Avandiato delay or prevent disease progression.
up 15% (£1.4 billion).
Boniva/Bonviva, a new once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the
In addition, in 2005 there has been a rapid uptake of a number of high
treatment of osteoporosis, which was developed with Roche, had a
potential products such as Requip, for restless legs syndrome (sales up
strong launch in the USA andin February 2006hada 10% share of
34% to £156 million), Avodartfor benign prostatic hyperplasia (sales
new prescriptions for oral bisphosphonates. Boniva injection, the first-
doubled to £129 million) and Boniva/Bonvivafor the treatment of
ever quarterly treatment for osteoporosis, was approved in the USA
osteoporosis, which waslaunched in 2005andcaptured a10% share
in January 2006 and received a positive opinion from the CHMP in
of new prescriptions for oral bisphosphonates in the US market.
Europe on 27th January 2006.
Respiratory
Vaccines
GSK continues to be the global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals
The vaccines business performed well,with total sales rising 15% to
with sales of its three key products, Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Flovent
£1.4 billion, led by Infanrix. Vaccine sales were particularly strong in
and Serevent,amounting to £4.0 billion, up 15%.Seretide/Advair
the USA, where turnover rose 26% to £338 million, helped by the
sales rose 26% to £1.7 billionin the USA. Sales werealso strong in
launch of two new products,Fluarix and Boostrix.
both European and International markets,which were up 16% to £1
billion and £0.3 billion,respectively. In July, GSK acquired Corixa Corporation for £150 million and in
December,completed the acquisition of ID Biomedical Corporation for
Central nervous system (CNS)
£0.9billion. Approval of IDB’s Fluviralflu vaccine is expected in time
CNS sales declined 8% to £3.2 billion. Sales declined in the USAand
for the 2006/07 flu season.
Europe,witha small gain in International.Total Paxilsales fell 42% to
£615 million, due to generic competition and the interruption in Also in December, GSK submitted a “mock-up” dossier to the EMEA for
supply to Paxil CRduring the year. See ‘Product supply’ on page 61. accelerated approval of a potential pandemic influenza vaccine. GSK
Partially mitigating this decline was the strong performance ofPaxil expects to begin clinical trials in the coming weeks on its H5N1 prototype
in Japan, up 17% to £197 million. pandemic vaccine using two different adjuvants: “alum” and a newly
developed adjuvant. TheGroupis in discussions with governments
around the world on plans to “prime” populations and stockpile the
vaccine. GSK expects to complete its filing in Europe in 2006.
GSK Annual Report 2005
58
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
Market share by value
Seretide/Advair Avandia/Avandamet
40%
33 35
31
30% 27 29
25
20%
14
11
10%
Europe USA Europe USA
September 2004 September 20052005 Year
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2005
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2005 2004 Growth 2005 Growth 2005 Growth 2005 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 27 5,054 4,394 14 15 2,580 17 18 1,660 8 9 814 13 17
Seretide/Advair 3,003 2,441 22 23 1,687 26 27 1,033 16 17 283 16 24
Flixotide/Flovent 638 618 2 3 262 4 4 188 (3) (1) 188 3 6
Serevent 330 349 (7) (5) 104 (20) (19) 160 (3) (1) 66 12 14
Flixonase/Flonase 656 578 13 13 506 12 12 60 (1) 2 90 27 30
Central Nervous System 17 3,219 3,462 (8) (7) 2,051 (10) (10) 704 (7) (6) 464 2 5
Seroxat/Paxil 615 1,063 (42) (42) 133 (75) (74) 187 (26) (25) 295 – 1
PaxilIR 488 667 (27) (27) 18 (87) (87) 187 (26) (25) 283 (1) (1)
Paxil CR 127 396 (68) (68) 115 (70) (70) – – – 12 40 50
Wellbutrin 739 751 (2) (2) 723 (2) (2) 2 42 100 14 (14) (7)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 92 284 (68) (68) 80 (70) (70) 2 42 100 10 (35) (23)
Wellbutrin XL 647 467 38 39 643 37 38 – – – 4 >100 100
Imigran/Imitrex 697 682 1 2 504 2 2 144 1 1 49 (2) 2
Lamictal 849 677 24 25 568 36 37 226 3 4 55 15 22
Requip 156 116 34 34 80 50 51 68 21 21 8 22 14
Anti-virals 14 2,598 2,359 9 10 1,285 10 10 773 6 7 540 12 15
HIV 1,554 1,462 5 6 766 2 3 607 8 9 181 12 15
Combivir 583 570 1 2 283 1 1 227 – 1 73 8 12
Trizivir 303 322 (6) (6) 166 (7) (6) 123 (5) (5) 14 (8) (7)
Epivir 261 294 (12) (11) 93 (33) (33) 122 4 6 46 12 15
Ziagen 136 155 (14) (12) 55 (26) (25) 54 (8) (10) 27 11 23
Retrovir 41 43 (6) (5) 14 (17) (18) 16 (6) – 11 12 10
Agenerase, Lexiva 112 63 77 78 70 50 52 36 >100 >100 6 46 20
Epzicom/Kivexa 118 1 >100 >100 85 – – 29 >100 >100 4 >100 >100
Herpes 826 718 14 15 476 24 25 139 – 1 211 4 6
Valtrex 695 571 21 22 470 26 27 98 9 9 127 12 13
Zovirax 131 147 (11) (11) 6 (32) (45) 41 (16) (15) 84 (6) (5)
Zeffix 145 130 9 12 12 11 9 21 (8) (5) 112 13 15
Anti-bacterials 8 1,519 1,547 (3) (2) 261 (27) (27) 718 3 4 540 5 7
Augmentin 666 708 (7) (6) 139 (38) (38) 316 5 6 211 11 13
Augmentin IR 552 533 2 4 40 (34) (32) 305 3 4 207 11 14
Augmentin ES, XR 114 175 (35) (35) 99 (40) (40) 11 97 83 4 (19) (20)
Zinnat/Ceftin 197 205 (6) (4) 10 2 11 112 (9) (7) 75 (4) (1)
Metabolic 8 1,495 1,251 18 20 995 16 17 190 39 43 310 12 17
Avandia 1,154 892 27 29 864 31 32 112 20 23 178 15 22
Avandamet 175 222 (22) (21) 113 (43) (43) 45 >100 >100 17 2 13
Bonviva/Boniva 18 – >100 >100 17 – – 1 >100 >100 – – –
Vaccines 8 1,389 1,194 15 16 338 26 26 592 12 14 459 10 13
Hepatitis 444 405 8 10 137 1 2 224 11 12 83 13 17
Infanrix, Pediarix 431 356 19 21 145 13 12 202 24 25 84 20 27
Oncology and emesis 5 1,016 934 8 9 761 12 12 164 (4) (4) 91 1 7
Zofran 837 763 9 10 639 12 13 124 (5) (5) 74 3 9
Hycamtin 99 99 (1) – 66 2 3 27 (6) (7) 6 (6) –
Cardiovascular and 7
urogenital 1,331 932 41 43 766 36 36 415 57 59 150 32 39
Coreg 573 432 32 33 568 33 34 – – – 5 (30) (29)
Levitra 40 49 (19) (18) 35 79 75 4 (78) (81) 1 (94) (88)
Avodart 129 64 100 >100 65 90 91 55 >100 >100 9 >100 >100
Arixtra 24 6 >100 >100 15 >100 >100 8 >100 >100 1 >100 >100
Fraxiparine 211 56 >100 >100 – – – 179 >100 >100 32 >100 >100
Vesicare 13 – – – 13 – – – – – – – –
Other 6 1,040 1,027 – 1 69 (22) (22) 321 (2) (1) 650 3 6
Zantac 244 273 (12) (11) 58 (19) (17) 64 (15) (11) 122 (6) (7)
100 18,661 17,100 8 9 9,106 8 8 5,537 8 9 4,018 9 12
CER% representsgrowth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial recordonpages 172to 177.
GSK Annual Report 2005
59
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects2005 Year
continued
Oncology and emesis Pharmaceutical turnover for Europe region in 2005 on a
Sales of Zofrangrew 9% to £837 million, driven by the US market, turnover created basis
up 12% to £639 million. 2005 2004
Region/ Invoiced Adjustment Created Invoiced Adjustment Created
Cardiovascular and urogenital major markets £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sales ofCoregfor heart diseasegrew 32% to £573 million. Europe 5,537 – 5,537 5,084 – 5,084
France 1,007 (47) 960 982 (32) 950
Avodartfor benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlarged prostate) had a
UK 766 92 858 735 95 830
very strong year,with salesdoubling to £129 million.By January 2006
Italy 666 (14) 652 611 (23) 588
the product accounted for 42% of new prescriptions in the US
Germany 555 57 612 482 54 536
5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitor market.
Spain 590 (15) 575 560 (15) 545
Other therapeutic areas Poland 208 – 208 148 – 148
Sales of Zantacfell 12% to £244 million,with declines in all regions. Other Europe 1,745 (73) 1,672 1,566 (79) 1,487
Regional analysis
These adjustments are GSK’s estimates based on the most recent data
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2005 on from independent external sources, valued in sterling at relevant
an invoiced basis exchange rates. Management believes that this turnover created basis
The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced by of reporting turnover by market provides a better reflection of the
GSK’s local entity to its customers in the local market plus co- performance of the businesses in each market within Europe.
promotion income within each market.
The total turnover for the Europe region is unaffected by this
restatement.
Region/ % of 2005 2004 Growth*
major markets total £m £m CER% £% Parallel trade occurs occasionally elsewhere in the world,but it is not
USA 49 9,106 8,425 8 8 sufficiently material to affect significantly the turnover data by market
Europe 30 5,537 5,084 8 9 presented on an invoiced basis.
France 1,007 982 2 3 Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2005 on a
UK 766 735 4 4 turnover created basis
Italy 666 611 8 9
Turnover by market within Europe has been adjusted for the effects
Germany 555 482 14 15
of parallel trade to show turnover on the basis of the country where
Spain 590 560 5 5
the product is finally consumed, not where the product was sold
Poland 208 148 24 41
by GSK.
Other Europe 1,745 1,566 10 11
International 21 4,018 3,591 9 12 Region/ % of 2005 2004 Growth*
major markets total £m £m CER% £%
Asia Pacific 1,324 1,161 10 14
Japan 854 769 13 11 USA 49 9,106 8,425 8 8
Middle East, Africa 746 669 9 12 Europe 30 5,537 5,084 8 9
Latin America 651 581 7 12 France 960 950 – 1
Canada 443 411 – 8 UK 858 830 3 3
100 18,661 17,100 8 9 Italy 652 588 10 11
Germany 612 536 13 14
*CER% representsgrowth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth Spain 575 545 5 6
at actual exchange rates. Poland 208 148 24 41
Individual governments determine the pricing of medicines in most Other Europe 1,672 1,487 11 12
countries within Europe, which can result in wide price variations for the International 21 4,018 3,591 9 12
same product. Parallel trade occurs when third parties exploit this price Asia Pacific 1,324 1,161 10 14
differential by purchasing products inmarketswhere low prices are Japan 854 769 13 11
enforced and selling them to governments and other purchasers in Middle East, Africa 746 669 9 12
those markets where higher prices have been agreed. This parallel trade Latin America 651 581 7 12
is permitted under the single market rules in the European Union. GSK Canada 443 411 – 8
does not derive any benefit from the profit on resale at the higher price.
100 18,661 17,100 8 9
As a result, management believes that within the European region,
* CER% representsgrowth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
turnover by market, on an invoiced basis as presented above, does
at actual exchange rates.Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record
not properly represent the consumption of the products within each
on pages172to177.
market. GSK employees based in each market are instrumental in the
promotion of the Group’s products within their market, thereby
creating a product sale and final consumption in that market. The
following table gives the adjustments made in order to restate the
turnover for markets within Europe on a turnover created basis.
GSK Annual Report 2005
60
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects2005 Year
continued
USA International
The USA reported an 8% turnover growth in the year despite the The International region reported year on year turnover growth of
impact of generic competition to Paxil IR and Wellbutrin IR/SR. 9%. Strong growth in Japan,up 13%, China/Hong Kong,up 11%
Excluding sales of these products, turnover grew 12%. The US and Asia Pacific,up10%,was partly offset by broadly flat sales in
business represented 49% of total pharmaceutical turnover in 2005. Canada and Australia. The Canadian sales performance reflected
generic competition for Paxil whilst the Australian business was
Advairmaintained its strong growth with sales of £1,687 million, up
negatively impacted by Government pricing reforms.
26%. However, this adversely affected sales of its constituent
products, Flovent and Serevent, which collectively declined. Flonase, The strong performance in Japan was driven by the sales of Paxil, up
indicated for the treatment of perennial rhinitis, grew by 12%. 17%, Serevent, up 29% and Anti-virals,up 10%,partially offset by
declines in Zantac, Zoviraxand Tagamet.
Sales of Wellbutrinproducts fell 2% to £723 million. Wellbutrin IR/SR
sales fell 70% to £80 million as a result of generic competition. The Across all markets in International, the key products driving growth
impact was partially offset, however, by the exceptionally strong were Seretide, which grew 16% to record sales of £283 million,
performance of Wellbutrin XL, the new once-daily product, which Avandia/Avandamet, which grew 13% to £195 million and the
achieved sales of £643 million, up 37%. vaccines franchise, which recorded growth of 10% and achieved sales
of £459 million.
Total sales ofPaxilwere down 75% to £133 million as a result of
generic competition to Paxil IR, sales of which declined 87% to £18 Product supply
million. Paxil CRgenerated sales of £115million, down 70% due to Following FDA inspections in October 2003 and November 2004,
supply issues at the Cidra plant in Puerto Rico. which identified possible deficiencies in manufacturing practices at the
Group’s facility at Cidra in Puerto Rico, the FDA halted distribution of
Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew 10% with HIV products
supplies of Paxil CR and Avandamet in March 2005. This site is
up 2%. Valtrex, for herpes, grew 26% driven by patients switching
engaged in tableting and packaging for a range of GSK products,
to suppression therapy.
primarily for the US market including Paxil, Paxil CR, Coreg,Avandia
Sales of Avandia/Avandamet increased by14%. Anti-bacterial sales and Avandamet. In April 2005, the Group reached agreement with
declined 27% as a result of generic competition that began in the the FDA on a Consent Decree, which provides for an independent
third quarter of 2002. Coregsales increased 33% to £568 million as expert to review manufacturing processes at the site for compliance
it continued to benefit from its wide range of indications. with FDA Good Manufacturing Practice requirements. The Decree
also allows for potential future penalties, up to a maximum of $10
Vaccines grew 26% reflecting the good performance of Pediarixand
million a year, ifGSK fails to meet its terms.
the launches in 2005 of Boostrixand Fluarix.
In June 2005, the Group began re-supplying the US and other markets
Europe
with both Paxil CRand Avandamet. The sales of these products were
The discussion of individual market performance in the Europe region
significantly impacted in 2005 by this interruption in supply. The
is on a turnover created basis.
impact on Avandametwas mitigated by the switching of patients to
The Europe region contributed 30% of pharmaceutical turnoverand Avandia. In 2005, the Group also established a provision for the
grew 8%, which reflected strong growth in a number of countries and external costs required to rectify the manufacturing issues at the plant.
the full year impact of the acquisitions of Fraxiparineand Arixtra, For further details see Risk factors on pages 71 to 74and Note41to
which were acquired in Q3 2004. Excluding Fraxiparineand Arixtra, the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
growth was 5%.Marketswhich recorded strong growth included
Consumer Healthcare sales
Germany, Italy,Poland,Central EuropeandSouthern and Eastern
2005 2004 Growth
Europe. Government healthcare reforms, including pricing and £m £m CER% £%
reimbursement restrictions, together with generic competition, OTC medicines 1,437 1,400 1 3
adversely affected turnover in France, the UK and Spain. Analgesics 362 333 6 9
Major growth drivers were Seretide, GSK’s largest selling product in Dermatological 161 180 (12) (11)
Europe,with growth of16%,theAvandia/Avandametfranchise, Gastro-intestinal 249 241 1 3
which grew52%, HIV up8% and thevaccines franchise, up 12%. Respiratory tract 154 145 5 6
Smoking control 336 327 2 3
Sales of the herpes franchise were flat comparedwith2004 mainly Natural wellness support 133 136 (4) (2)
as a result of generic competition for Zovirax offset by patients
switching to the newer product, Valtrex. Oral care 943 913 2 3
Nutritional healthcare 619 573 7 8
Seroxat sales were down 26%,reflecting generic competitioninthe
2,999 2,886 2 4
majority of markets in the region.
Anti-bacterial sales increased3%,due to a stronger than normal flu The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of 2% to £3.0 billion
season in a number of Southern European markets. comprised an OTC medicines sales increase of 1%, a Nutritional
healthcare sales increase of 7% and an Oral care sales increase of
2%.
GSK Annual Report 2005
61
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsOTCmedicines This was due to lower charges related to legal matters,equal to a 2%
Over-the-counter medicine sales were £1,437 million, up 1%. Growth reduction in total SG&A,andlower share-based payment charges,
from analgesics, up 6%, and respiratory tract, up 5%, helped offset equal to a 1% decrease in total SG&A,partly offset by higher costs
the loss of sales from the dermatological products divested in 2004. related to programmes to deliver future cost savingsequal to a1%
Panadol growth of 12% in International markets was the key driver increase in total SG&A.
of the growth in analgesics.
Research and development
On 23rd January 2006, an FDA Advisory Committee recommended R&D expenditure as a percentage of turnover was 14.5%, in line with
that Alli (orlistat) be approved for over-the-counter use in the USA to 2004, and increased 8% comparedwiththe previous year,partly as
promote weight loss in overweight adults, when used along with a a result of somewrite-offsofintangibleassets. Excluding thesewrite-
reduced calorie, low-fat diet. If approved, Alli will be the only FDA- offs, R&D expenditure grew slightly below turnover growth.
approved weight-loss drug available over-the-counter. Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure represented 16.2% of
pharmaceutical turnover.
Oral care
Oral care sales grew 2% to £943 million. Sales of Sensodyneand the Other operating income
denture care brands (Polident, Poligripand Corega) grew by 12% and Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment
6%, respectively, helping to offset lower sales of other toothpaste disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value
products. adjustments to the Quest collar and Theravance options. Other
operating income was £364 million in 2005 compared with £235
Nutritional healthcare
million in 2004. The increased income in 2005 is predominantly due
Nutritional healthcare product sales grew 7% to £619 million.
to increased product and asset disposal gains compared with 2004,
Lucozade, up 11%, continued to grow strongly in Europe.
and a favourable fair value movement of £19 million in the Quest
Operating profit collar and the Theravance options.
The analysis below of operating profit and subsequent discussion Operating profit
compares the 2005 results with 2004 results. Overall, the operating profit margin increased 2.9 percentage points
as operating profit of £6,874 million increased 19% in sterling terms.
2005 2004 Growth
At constant exchange rates operating profit increased 16% and the
£m % £m % CER% £%
margin increased 2.5 percentage points,reflecting the lower charges
Turnover 21,660 100.0 19,986 100.0 7 8
relating to legal mattersand share-based payments,higher product
Cost of sales (4,764) (22.0) (4,360) (21.8) 8 9
and asset disposals and increases in advertising, promotion and selling
Selling, general
that were below the rate of turnover growth. Partially offsetting these
and administration (7,250) (33.5) (7,201) (36.0) – 1
items were higher costs related to programmes to deliver future cost
Research and
savings and increased R&D expenditure.
development (3,136) (14.5) (2,904) (14.5) 8 8
Other operating Profit before taxation
income 364 1.7 235 1.1
Thediscussion below compares the 2005 results with the 2004 results.
Operating profit 6,874 31.7 5,756 28.8 16 19
Gains from asset disposals, including associates, were £290 million
(2004 – £295 million), costs for legal matters were £430 million (2004
Cost of sales
– £595 million) and charges relating to cost-saving programmes were
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased 0.2 percentage
£141 million (2004 – £104 million).Share-based payments in 2005
points. At constant exchange rates, the increase was also 0.2
were £236 million (2004 – £333 million).
percentage points,reflecting higher costs related to the ongoing
rectification of manufacturing issues at the Cidra site in Puerto Rico, Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
which were only partly offset by operating efficiencies compared with undertakings
the previous year. The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s
holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc..
Selling, general and administration
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) as a percentage of Disposal of interest in associates
turnover decreased 2.5 percentage points. At constant exchange There were no disposals of interestsin associates in 2005. During
rates, the decrease was 2.2 percentage points, reflecting flat 2004, the Group disposed of 3.8 million shares from its investment
expenditurecomparedwith theprior year on a turnover increase of in Quest Diagnostics Inc. for cash proceeds of £188 million.Aprofit
7%. SG&A costs were in line with 2004 overall, with higher of £150million was recognised. The Group’s shareholding in Quest
advertising, promotion and selling expense being offset by lower as at 31st December 2005 was 18.4%.
general and administrationexpenditure. Advertising, promotion and
selling expenses increased 3%and accounted for a 2% increase in
total SG&A. General and administration costs declined 4% and
accounted for a2%reduction in total SG&A.
GSK Annual Report 2005
62
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
2005 Year
continued2005 Year
continued
Net finance costs However, there continues to be a wide difference of views between
the Group, the IRS, HMRC and other relevant taxation authorities
2005 2004
Financeincome £m £m where open issues exist. The ultimate liability for such matters may
vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome
Interestincome 276 173
of litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax
Unwinding of discount on assets – 3
authorities.
Fair value adjustments (19) –
257 176
Profit for the year
2005 2004 Growth
Finance costs £m £m CER% £%
Interest costs (427) (346) Profitafter taxation for the year 4,816 4,022 17 20
Unwinding of discount on liabilities (25) (16)
Profit attributable to
Fair value adjustments 1 –
shareholders 4,689 3,908 17 20
(451) (362) Earnings per share(pence) 82.6p 68.1p 18 21
Earnings per ADS(US$) $3.00 $2.49 18 21
Finance income increased compared with 2004 predominantly due to
Weighted average number
higher interest rates and higher cash balances.Finance costsincreased
of shares (millions) 5,674 5,736
due to higher interest ratesas well as higher interest costs resulting
from the issue of two € 750 million bonds in 2005. Diluted earnings per share(pence) 82.0p 68.0p
Diluted earnings per ADS(US$) $2.98 $2.49
Taxation Weighted average number
2005 2004 of shares (millions) 5,720 5,748
£m £m
UK corporation tax 354 273 Profit for the year was £4,816 million, an increase of 17% (20% in
Overseas taxation 1,665 1,394 sterling terms). Profit attributable to minority interests was
£127 million and profit attributable to shareholders was £4,689
Current taxation 2,019 1,667
million, an increase of 17% (20% in sterling terms).
Deferred taxation (103) 90
Total 1,916 1,757 Earnings per share increased 18%,reflecting higher profits and also
the reduction in the weighted average number of shares resulting
The charge for taxation on profit, amounting to £1,916 million, from the Group’s share buy-back programme. The interest cost of this
represents an effective tax rate of 28.5% (2004 – 30.4%). The tax rate programme also impacts the Group’s earnings.
in 2005 of 28.5% benefited from higher tax relief on the actual or
At actual rates of exchange,earnings per share increased 21%. The
potential exercise of share options by employees, arising from the
favourable currency impact on EPS of three percentage points reflects
increase in the share price in the year.
a strengthening of the US dollar and Euro average exchange rates
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving relative to 2004 and compares with a1%favourable currency impact
significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a on turnover. This difference principally arises from a different mix of
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply currencies in profits compared with turnover.
routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
Dividend
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which
The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 14 pence per
individual Group companies are liable to tax.Disagreements with,
share, resulting in a dividend for the year of 44 pence, a 2 pence
and between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in
increase over the dividend of 42 pence per share for 2004. The
particular the price at which goods should be transferred between
equivalent fourth interim dividend receivable by ADR holders is
Group companies in different tax jurisdictions, can produce conflicting
48.7480 cents per ADS based on an exchange rate of £1/$1.7410.
claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in
The dividend had an ex-dividend date of 15th February 2006, a record
individual territories. Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of
date of 17th February 2006 and will be paid on 6th April 2006.
life for GSK. The Group hassignificant open issues with the revenue
authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada, details of which are Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the accounts when
set out in Note 12 to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’. paid and not when declared. GSK normally pays a dividend two
quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it
The Group had total current tax payable liabilities at 31st December
is declared. Consequently,the 2005 financial statements recognise the
2005 of £2,269 million (2004–£1,753 million) in respect of transfer
dividends paid in 2005, namely the third and fourth interim dividends
pricing and other tax matters.
for 2004 and the first and second interim dividends for 2005 totalling
GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing £2,390million.
methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues to a
satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional
advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for
the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
GSK Annual Report 2005
63
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsCritical accounting policies •Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group
purchasing organisations and other direct and indirect customers.
The consolidated Financial statements are prepared in accordance with
These arrangements require the customer to achieve certain
International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted for use in the
performance targets relating to value of product purchased,
European Union, following the accounting policies approved by the
formulary status or pre-determined market shares relative to
Board and described in Note2to theffinancial statements, ‘Accounting
competitors. Theaccrualfor these rebates is estimated based on
policies’. Management is required to make estimates and assumptions
the specific terms in each agreement, historical experience and
that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses
product growth rates.
reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and results could
differ from those estimates. The following are considered to be the •Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
critical accounting policies adopted. payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and adjusted
subsequently to reflect actual experience.
Turnover
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the • Where there is historical experience of customer returns, GSK
customer and reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions. records an accrualfor estimated sales returns by applying historical
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced, together
product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by product with market related information such as stock levels at
arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements with wholesalers, anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale.Accrualsare
pharmaceuticals businessisas follows:
made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available market 2005 2004 2003
information and historical experience. Because the amounts are £m % £m % £m %
estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome, and the Gross turnover 11,875 100 10,835 100 11,825 100
amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other
Chargebacks 786 7 732 7 851 7
things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of
USGovernment and
accrualis reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical
State programmes 775 6 734 7 628 5
experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and
Managed care and
returns made and any changes in arrangements. Future events could
group purchasing
cause the assumptions on which theaccrualsare based to change,
organisation rebates 686 6 575 5 567 5
which could affect the future results of the Group.
Cash discounts 227 2 208 2 226 2
The Group’s largest business is US pharmaceuticals, and the US market Customer returns 155 1 86 1 86 1
has the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and Prioryear adjustments (34) – (51) (1) (93) (1)
allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the Other items 174 1 126 1 150 1
arrangements in existence in the Group’s US pharmaceuticals business. Total deductions 2,769 23 2,410 22 2,415 20
•The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme Net turnover 9,106 77 8,425 78 9,410 80
providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients. In 1990,
The increase in customer returns in 2005arosefrom product recalls
the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to reduce state
following the manufacturing issues at the Cidra plant and increased
and federal expenditure on prescription drugs. GSK participates by
generic competition.
providing rebates to states. Accruals for Medicaid rebates are
calculated based on the specific terms of individual state agreements The totalaccrualsfor rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the
using a combination of historical experience, product and US pharmaceuticals business at 31st December 2005 and 31st
population growth, anticipated price increases and the impact of December 2004were as follows:
contracting strategies. No impact of the Medicaid Part D
At 31st At 31st
arrangements was seen in 2005,but they are expected to affect the December December
level of discounts given in 2006. 2005 2004
£m £m
•GSKhas arrangements with certain key parties, whereby the party Chargebacks 56 50
is able to buy products from wholesalers at lower prices. A USGovernment and State programmes 417 362
chargeback represents the difference between the invoice price to Managed care and group purchasing
the wholesaler and the indirect customer’s contractual discounted organisation rebates 401 297
price.Accrualsfor estimating chargebacks are calculated based on Cash discounts 27 19
the terms of each agreement, historical experience and product Customer returns 146 97
growth rates. Other 53 31
Total 1,100 856
GSK Annual Report 2005
64
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
2005 Year
continued2005 Year
continued
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at Intangible assets
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses gross Where intangible assets are acquired by GlaxoSmithKline from third
sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data sources parties the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to compounds
and information received from key wholesalers. The aim of this is to in development are amortised from the point at which they are
maintaininventoriesat a consistent level from year to year based on available for use, over their estimated useful lives,up to20years.
the pattern of consumption. On this basis, US pharmaceutical Estimated useful lives are reviewed annually and impairment reviews
inventorylevels at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at are undertaken if events occur which call into question the carrying
31st December 2005were estimated to amount to less than one values of the assets. Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised
month of turnover. This calculation uses third party information, the independently where they are separable and have a long-term value
accuracy of which cannot be totally verified, but which is believed to to the Group. Brands are amortised over their estimated useful lives,
be sufficiently reliable for this purpose. not exceeding 20 years, except where the end of the useful economic
life cannot be foreseen. Where brands are not amortised, they are
Taxation
subject to annual impairment reviews. Impairment reviews are based
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and
on risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
deferred tax on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets
interest rates. These future cash flows are based on business forecasts
and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at the rates that have been
and are therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause
enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
the values of these intangible assets to be impaired and this would
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities, have an adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
principally in relation to transfer pricing disputes. GSK uses the best
Pensions and other post-employmentbenefits
advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking
The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits are
to manage transfer pricing issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, on
charged to theincome statementin accordance withIAS 19Rover the
the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it
period during which benefit is derived from the employee’s services.
has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open
The costs are assessed in accordance with advice received from
assessments. However, there continues to be a wide difference of
independent actuaries on the basis of assumptions selected by
views where open issues exist. The ultimate liability for such matters
management for use under both IFRS and USGAAP. These
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
assumptions include future earnings and pension increases, discount
outcome of litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant
rates and expected long term rates of return on assets and are
tax authorities.
disclosed inNote26to thefinancial statements,‘Pensions and other
Legal and other disputes post-employment benefits’. The expected long term rates of return
GSK provides for anticipated settlement costs where a reasonable onbondsare determined based onthe portfolio mix of index-linked,
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal governmentand corporatebonds.An equity risk premium is added
and other expenses arising from claims against the Group. The to this for equities. Discount rates arebased on appropriate long-term
company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have established indices, including theiBoxxover 15 year AAindexfor the UK,and
provisions after taking into account insurance and other agreements Moody’s Aa indexfor the USA. Sensitivity analysis is provided in Note
and having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances of each 26, but a0.25%reductionin the discount rate would lead to an
matter and in accordance with accounting requirements. Provisions increasein the net pension deficitof approximately £400 million and
for product liability claims on certain products have been made on an anincreasein the annual pension cost of approximately £6million.
‘incurred but not reported’ basis where sufficient history of claims The selection of different assumptions could affect the future results
made and settlements is available. No provisions have been made for of the Group.
other unasserted claims or for claims for which no reasonable estimate
Product rights and goodwill
of the likely outcome can yet be made. The ultimate liability for
In addition to the critical accounting policies outlined above, the
pending and unasserted claims may vary from the amounts provided,
accounting policy for product rights and goodwill is deemed to be
if any, and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings,
important in respect of the balance sheet prepared in accordance
investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
with US accounting principles. Under US GAAP the merger of Glaxo
Impairment of fixed assets Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in 2000 was accounted for as
The carrying values of fixed assets subject to depreciation and an acquisition which gave rise to product rights of £24 billion and
amortisation are reviewed for impairment when there is an indication goodwill of £16 billion being recognised.Goodwill and those product
that the values of the assets might be impaired. Impairment is rights determined to have indefinite lives are not amortised but rather
determined by reference to the higher of net realisable value and reviewed annually for impairment. These impairment reviews assess
value in use, measured by reference to risk-adjusted future cashflows business projections prepared as part of the Group’s annual
discounted using appropriateinterest rates. These future cashflows budgeting and planning process to determine whether or not an
are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently impairment invaluehas occurred. The business projections include
judgemental. Future events could cause the assumptions used in these assumptions about future events. Changes in future events could
impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse effect on cause the assumptions in the business projections to change with a
the future results of the Group. consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group as
reported under US GAAP.
GSK Annual Report 2005
65
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsFinancial position Property, plant and equipment
The total cost of the Group’s property, plant and equipment at 31st
2005 2004
£m £m December 2005 was £13.2 billion, with a net book value of £6.7
Assets billion. Of this, land and buildings represented £2.9 billion, plant and
Non-current assets equipment £2.8 billion and assets in construction £1.0 billion. In
Property, plant and equipment 6,652 6,197 2005, GlaxoSmithKline invested £1,001 million in new and renewal
Goodwill 696 304 property, plant and equipment. This is mainly related to a large
Other intangible assets 3,383 2,513 number of projects for the renewal improvement and expansion of
Investments in associates and facilities at various worldwide sites. Property is mainly held freehold.
joint ventures 276 209 New investment is financed from Group liquid resources. At 31st
Other investments 362 298 December 2005, the Group had capital contractual commitments for
Deferred tax assets 2,214 2,032 future expenditure of some £376million and 2006 operating lease
Other non-current assets 438 611 commitments of £111million.
Total non-current assets 14,021 12,164 GSK’s business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
regulated by governmental authorities.The Groupallocates significant
Current assets financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of its property,
Inventories 2,177 2,193 plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production
Current tax recoverable 416 155 and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards. A number of
Trade and other receivables 5,348 4,451 its processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Liquid investments 1,025 1,512
Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 2,467 The Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills to
Assets held for sale 2 2 manage environmental risks from these activities. Environmental
issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
Total current assets 13,177 10,780
discontinued, are reported under ‘Responsibility for environment,
Total assets 27,198 22,944 health and safety’ (page 26) and in Note 41 to the ffinancial
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. GSK believes that its facilities are
Liabilities
adequate for its current needs.
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings (1,200) (1,582) Other intangible assets
Trade and other payables (5,147) (4,267) Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from
Current tax payable (2,269) (1,753) third parties and computer software. The cost of other intangible
Short-term provisions (895) (962) assets as at 31st December 2005 was £3,383million (2004 – £2,513
million). Much of the increase in 2005includes additions of £816
Total current liabilities (9,511) (8,564)
million arising fromthe acquisitions ofCorixa Corporation and ID
Non-current liabilities BiomedicalCorporation.
Long-term borrowings (5,271) (4,381)
Investments
Deferred tax provision (569) (569)
GSK held investments,includingassociates and joint ventures,with
Pensions and other post-
a carrying value at 31st December 2005 of £638million (2004 – £507
employment benefits (3,069) (2,519)
million).The market value at 31st December 2005 was £1,487million
Other provisions (741) (569)
(2004 – £1,292million). The investmentsare mainly in equity shares
Other non-current liabilities (467) (405)
where the holding derives directly from the Group’s business. The
Total non-current liabilities (10,117) (8,443) largest of these investments is in the associate, Quest Diagnostics Inc.,
Total liabilities (19,628) (17,007) which had a book value at 31st December 2005 of £244 million (2004
– £173 million). Theinvestments include stakes in companies where
Net assets 7,570 5,937
the Group has research collaborations, which provide access to
Equity biotechnology developments of potential interest or interests in
Share capital 1,491 1,484 companies that arise from business divestments.
Share premium account 549 304 Trade and other receivables
Retained earnings 5,579 4,542
Trade and other receivablesinclude £180million (2004 – £5 million)
Other reserves (308) (606)
of derivative financial instruments now held at fair value. The
Shareholders’ equity 7,311 5,724 remaining increase from 2004 reflectsincreased sales and the impact
of strengthening overseas currencies on the translation of foreign
Minority interests 259 213
currency receivables.
Total equity 7,570 5,937 Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables include £171million (2004 – £72 million)
of derivative financial instruments now held at fair value. The
remainingincreasereflects an increase in customer return and rebate
accruals andstrengthening foreign currencies.
GSK Annual Report 2005
66
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial position and resourcesFinancial position and resources
continued
Provisions Share purchases
The Group carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and In 2005, the ESOP Trusts did not make any market purchases of shares
non-current provisions of £2,205 million at 31st December 2005 in GSK plc (2004 – nil). Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future
(2004 – £2,100 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities, of exercises of options and awards under the Group share option and
which £1,165 million related to legal and other disputes. award schemes. A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in
respect of awards where the rules of the scheme require the company
Provision has been made for tax, legal and other disputes, indemnified
to satisfy exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of
disposal liabilities and the costs of manufacturing restructuring and
new shares.The shares held by the Trusts are matched to options and
merger integration to the extent that at the balance sheet date an
awards granted and diminish the dilutive effect of new share issues
actual or constructive obligation existed and could be reasonably
on shareholders’equityand earnings.
estimated.
At 31st December 2005, the ESOP Trusts held 167.4 million GSK
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
sharesagainst the future exercise of share options and share awards.
The Group accounts for pension and other post-employment
Thecarrying value, which is the lower of cost or expected proceeds,
arrangements in accordance with IAS19R.The net deficitbefore
of £2,313 million has been deducted from other reserves. The
allowing for deferred taxationwas£3,069million (2004 – £2,519
market valueof these shares was£2,459million.
million). Special cash contributions of £366 million (2004 – £256
million) were made in 2005 to reduce the funding deficits in the UK In 2005, GSK repurchased £1 billion of shares as Treasury shares and
and US plans. expects to repurchase a further £1 billion in 2006. The exact amount
and timing of future purchases will depend on market conditions and
Net debt
other factors. At 31st December 2005, GSK held 142.8 million shares
2005 2004
as Treasury shares at a cost of £1,799 million, which has been
£m £m
deducted from retained earnings.
Cash, cash equivalentsand liquid
investments 5,234 3,979 Commitments and contingent liabilities
Borrowings – repayable within one year (1,200) (1,582) Financial commitments are summarised inNote35to theffinancial
Borrowings – repayable after one year (5,271) (4,381) statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
Net debt (1,237) (1,984) obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out inNote
29to thefifnancial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ andNote30to
Net debt reduced by £747 million in 2005 to £1,237 million,primarily theffinancial statements, ‘Net debt’.
due to increased operating profits, partly offset by the acquisition of
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefits,
Corixaand IDBiomedicalfor a total consideration of over £1 billion.
restructuring and integration plans and legal, environmental and other
Total equity disputes are set out inNote27to theffinancial statements, ‘Other
A summary of the movements in equityis set out below. provisions’.
2005 2004 Contractual obligations and commitments
£m £m
The following table sets out the Group’s contractual obligations and
Total equity at beginning of year 5,937 5,598
commitments at 31st December 2005 as they fall due for payment.
Implementation of accounting for
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
financial instruments under IAS39 (12) –
£m £m £m £m £m
Total equity at beginning of year, as adjusted 5,925 5,598 Loans 6,350 1,162 1,490 344 3,354
Total recognised income and expense Interest on loans 3,067 233 403 326 2,105
for the year 4,576 3,999 Finance lease obligations 121 38 51 19 13
Dividends to shareholders (2,390) (2,476) Operating lease
Ordinary shares issued 252 42 commitments 437 111 138 85 103
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled – (201) Intangibleassets 1,833 273 269 412 879
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Property, plant &
Treasury shares (1,000) (799) equipment 376 301 75 – –
Ordinary shares issued by ESOPTrusts 68 23 Pensions 2,200 550 1,100 550 –
Share-based payments 265 312 Other commitments 64 26 38 – –
Changes in minority interest shareholdings (40) (489)
Total 14,448 2,694 3,564 1,736 6,454
Minority interests (86) (72)
Total equity atend of year 7,570 5,937 Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are
disclosed after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
GSK Annual Report 2005
67
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsThe Group has entered into a number of research collaborations to Cash flow
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. The
Asummary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out below:
terms of these arrangements can include up-front fees, equity
investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of 2005 2004
£m £m
research. In addition the Group will often agree to make further
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,958 4,944
payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved. As some of these
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,660) (920)
agreements relate to compounds in the early stages of development,
Net cash outflow from financing activities (2,914) (3,407)
milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the
compounds move successfully through the development process. Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 1,384 617
Generally the closer the product is to marketing approval the greater
Exchange adjustments 233 (93)
the possibility of success. The payments shown above within intangible
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 2,355 1,831
assets represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones are
achieved. A number of commitments were made in 2005 under Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,972 2,355
licensing and other agreements, principallywithVertex Pharmaceuticals
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year
Inc.
comprise:
GSKhas agreed with the trustees of the UK and US pension schemes
Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 2,467
to make additionalcontributions of approximately £370 million per
Overdrafts (237) (112)
year over a five-year period ending 31st December 2009 in orderto
eliminate the pension deficitson an IAS19 basisby that point.The 3,972 2,355
table above shows this commitment, which on the basis of the deficits
The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid was
at 31st December 2005 amounts to total contributions (normal plus
£5,958 million, an increase of £1,014 million over 2004, arising
additional) of approximately £550 million per year. No commitments
principally due to higher operating profits.
have been made past 31st December 2009.
The net cash outflow from investing activities was £1,660 million, an
Contingent liabilities
increase of £740 million which reflected the purchase of Corixa and
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising IDBiomedical in 2005 for over £1 billion (purchases of businesses in
discounted bills, performance guarantees and other items arising in 2004 was £0.3 billion reflecting the purchase of Fraxiparineand
the normal course of business and when they are expected to expire. Arixtrafrom Sanofi).
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ Free cash flow was £4,664 million, an increase of 26% over 2004.
£m £m £m £m £m Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business after
Guarantees 220 205 8 – 7 meeting its obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to minority
Other contingent liabilities 122 13 8 2 99 interests, and after capital expenditure on non-current tangible and
intangible assets.
Total 342 218 16 2 106
Free cash flow is used by GSK’s management for planning and
In the normal course of business the Group has provided various
reporting purposes and in discussions with and presentations to
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in which
investment analysts. GSK’s free cash flow is presented on a basis other
legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A provision is made
than in accordance with IFRS. This measure may not be directly
where a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of
comparable with similarly described measures used by other
the dispute and this is included in Note27to theffinancial statements,
companies. A reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating
‘Other provisions’.
activities, which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash
It is the Group’s policy to provide for the settlement costs of asserted flow is shown below.
claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable estimate may
Reconciliation of free cash flow
be made. Prior to this point no liability is recorded. Legal and
environmental costs are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ on pages71to74. 2005 2004
£m £m
GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,958 4,944
methodology and, on the basis of external professional advice, Purchase of non-current intangible assets (903) (788)
continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the Purchase of non-current tangible assets (278) (255)
liabilities likely to arise from open taxation assessments. The ultimate Disposal of non-current tangible fixed assets 54 53
liability for such matters may vary significantly from amounts provided Interest paid (381) (350)
and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and Interest received 290 173
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. This is discussed further Dividends received from joint ventures and
in Note12to theffinancial statements, ‘Taxation’. associated undertaking 10 11
Dividends paid to minority interests (86) (75)
Free cash flow 4,664 3,713
GSK Annual Report 2005
68
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
Financial position and resources
continuedFinancial position and resources
continued
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Payment performance
At 31st December 2005, the average number of days’ purchases
2005 2004
£m £m represented by trade and fixed asset creditors of the parent company
Net debt at beginning of year (1,984) (1,648) was nil (2004 – nil) and in respect of the company and its UK
Increasein cash in the year 1,384 617 subsidiaries in aggregate was22days (2004– 21 days).
Cash (outflow)/inflowfrom management
of liquid resources (550) 53 Treasury policies
Net increase in long-term loans (912) (1,350)
GlaxoSmithKlineplc reports in sterling and pays dividends out of
Net repayment of short-term loans 857 407
sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury in GSKis to manage
Exchange and other movements (32) (63)
and monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirements
Net debt at end of year (1,237) (1,984) and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives. Treasury
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the
Investment appraisal
Board and monitored by a treasury management group.
GSKhas a formal process for assessing potential investment proposals
in order to ensure decisions are aligned with the Group’s overall GSK maintains treasury control systems and procedures to monitor
strategy. This process includes an analysis of the impact on profit and foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and other financial risks.
assessment of the return based on discounted cash flows. The
Liquidity
discount rate used to perform financial analysis is decided internally,
GSK operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies
to allow determination of the extent to which investments cover the
established in the markets in which the Group trades. Due to the
Group’s cost of capital. For specific investments the discount rate may
nature ofGSK’s business, with patent protection on many of the
be adjusted to take into account country or other risk weightings.
products initsportfolio, the Group’s products compete largely on
Capital expenditure and financial investment product efficacy rather than on price. Selling margins are sufficient to
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted to cover normal operating costs and the Group’s operating subsidiaries
£1,181million (2004–£1,043million). Disposals realised £275million are substantially cash generative.
(2004– £53million). Cash payments to acquire equity investments
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the research and
of £23million (2004–£103million) were made in the year and sales
development of new products as well as routine outflows of capital
of equity investments realised £35million (2004– £58million).
expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing debt. The
Future cash flow Group may, from time to time, have additional demands for finance,
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be sufficient such as for share purchases and acquisitions.
to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels
GSK operates with a high level of interest cover and at low levels of
of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing
net debt relative to its market capitalisation. In addition to the strong
agreements and to meet other routine outflows including tax and
positive cash flow from normal trading activities, additional liquidity
dividends, subject to the risk factors discussed on pages71to74.
is readily available via its commercial paper programme and short-
The Group may from time to time have additional demands for
term investments. The Group also has aEuropeanMedium Term Note
finance, such as for acquisitions. The Group has access to other
programme of £5 billion, of which £3.5billion was in issue at 31st
sources of liquidity from banks and other financial institutions, in
December 2005. In 2004, the Group established a US Shelf
addition to the cash flow from operations, forsuch needs.
Registration of $5 billion; at 31st December 2005$2.4billion (£1.4
billion)was in issue.
Payment policies
Treasury operations
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing their
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net
working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier payments
cost/income of financial operations to the benefit of Group earnings.
reflect local commercial practice.
Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre.GSK uses a
In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have policies variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to finance its
to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular, the UK operations and to manage market risks from those operations.
companies seek:
Derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts,
•to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms interest rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and
of the transaction liquid assets into the currencies required for Group purposes and to
•to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign exchange
ofpayment rates and interest rates.
•to abide by the terms of payment.
The policy includes arrangements for accelerated payment of small
suppliers.
GSK Annual Report 2005
69
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsFinancial position and resources
continued
GSK balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets having regard Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that
to: the cash flow from operating activities and thecurrencies in which match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a hedge
it is earned; the tax cost of intra-Group distributions; the currencies against the relevant net assets.
in which business assets are denominated; and the post-tax cost of
Based on the composition of net debt at 31st December 2005,a 10%
borrowings compared tothepost-tax return on liquid assets.
appreciation in sterling against major currencies would result in a
Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements of reduction in the Group’s net debt of approximately £61 million.
Group companies are generally invested and managed centrally by A10% weakening in sterling against major currencies would result
Corporate Treasury. Requirements of Group companies for operating in an increase in the Group’s net debt of approximately £75million.
finance are met whenever possible from central resources.
Interest rate risk management
External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate Treasury, GSK’s policy on interest rate risk management requires that the
comprise a portfolio of long and medium-term instruments and short- amount of net borrowings at fixed rates increases with the ratio of
term finance. forecast net interest payable to trading profit.
GSK does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to
purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies specifically prohibit such redenominate external borrowings into the interest rate coupon
activity. All transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to required for Group purposes. The duration of these swaps matches
manage the risks arising from underlying business activities, not for the duration of theprincipal instruments. Interest rate derivative
speculation. instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash flow hedges of the
relevant assets or liabilities.
Funding, maturity and counterparty risk
The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets in government The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or
bonds, short-term corporate debt instruments with a minimum borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward
short-term credit rating of A-1/P-1, money market funds with a credit contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating
rating of AAA/Aaa andother structured investments(credit ratings currency.
shown are from Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors’ Services,
Sensitivity analysis considers the sensitivity of the Group’s net debt to
respectively).
hypothetical changes in market rates and assumes that all other
The Group manages its net borrowing requirements through a variables remain constant. Based on the composition of net debt and
portfolio of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together with financing arrangements at 31st December 2005,and taking into
short-term finance under the US$10 billion commercial paper consideration all fixed rate borrowings in place, a one percentage
programme. In2005,two bonds were issued under the European point (100 basis points)decrease in average interest rates would result
Medium Term Note programme: a€ 750million,sevenyear,3% in an increase in the Group’s annual net interest charge of
coupon bondand a€ 750million,20 year,4%coupon bond. approximately £19 million.
The Group’slong-term borrowings mature at dates between 2006 Equity risk management
and 2034. These includea private financing which, although maturing Equity investments classified as current assets are available-for-sale
in 2032, may be redeemed by GSK at any time and, in particular, in and the Group manages disposals to meet overall business
the event of any accelerating event that would increase the cost of requirements as they arise. The Group regularly monitors the value of
funding for the Group. GSK’s long-term debt rating is AA from its equity investments and only enters into hedges selectively with the
Standard and Poor’s and Aa2 from Moody’s Investors’ Services. The approval of the Board.
agencies’ short-term ratings for paper issued under the Group’s
Financial assets and liabilities
commercial paper programme are A-1+ and P-1 respectively.
An analysis of net debt is given in Note30to theffinancial statements,
Foreign exchange risk management ‘Net debt’. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities at carrying
In GSKforeign currency transaction exposure arising on normal trade value and fair value and a reconciliation to net debt are given in Note
flows, in respect of both external and intra-Group trade, is not 36to theffinancial statements, ‘Financial instruments and related
hedged.Thepolicy is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating disclosures’, together with a discussion of derivative financial
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income with instruments and quantitative disclosures about market risk in
local currency costs. For this purpose, intra-Group trading transactions accordance with the requirements of IAS32 and IAS39.
are matched centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed
The Group continues to benefit from strong positive cash flow. Group
to reduce risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged
net debt would have decreased significantly in the year to 31st
selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury.
December 2005, but for the Group’s purchase of its own shares in the
A significant proportion of Group borrowings, including the market of £1 billion and acquisitions of approximately £1 billion.
commercial paper programme, is in US dollars, to benefit from the
The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2005 are
liquidity of US dollar denominated capital markets. Certain of these
representative of the treasury policies and strategies of GSK, applied
and other borrowings are swapped into other currencies as required
consistently during the year. There were no significant changes in
for Group purposes. The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in
such policies throughout the year.
the currencies of its principal assetsand cash flows.
GSK Annual Report 2005
70
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsOutlook and Risk Factors
Outlook New product candidates may appear promising in development but,
after significant investments, fail to reach the market or have only limited
Sales growth of existing products and launch of new products are
commercial success as a result of efficacy or safety concerns, inability
key drivers of GSK’s business performance. The strong growth seen
to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, difficulty or excessive costs to
from key products such as Seretide/Advair, Avandia/Avandametand
manufacture, infringement of patents or other intellectual property
from GSK’s vaccines business is expected to continue in 2006. Eight
rights of others or inability to differentiate the product adequately from
major development projects are scheduled to enter phase III in 2006.
those with which it competes.
These include the oncology products casopitant and pazopanib,as
well as products for Alzheimer’s disease, HIV, meningitis, lupus and Risk of loss or expiration of patents or marketing exclusivity
diabetes. Up to seven product filings are planned in 2006. These Patent infringement litigation
include two vaccines, Cervarix for cervical cancer and a potential flu Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges to the validity
pandemic vaccine, Allermistfor allergic rhinitis, eltrombopag for low of a patent or assertions that the alternative compounds do not
platelet count to help patients suffering from thrombocytopenia, infringe the Group’s patents. If the Group is not successful during the
Tykerbfor breast cancer, mepolizumab for hypereosinophilic syndrome patent protection or data exclusivity periods in maintaining exclusive
and Lamictal XR, a once-daily formulation for epilepsy. rights to market one or more of its major products, particularly in the
USA where the Group has its highest turnover and margins, the
Seven products are expected to be launched/approved in 2006. These
Group’s turnover and margins would be adversely affected. See Note
include Rotarix for rotavirus, Entereg for post-operative bowel
41to thefifnancial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion
disorders, Trexmiafor migraine, Avandaryl for diabetes, Coreg CRfor
of patent-related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
heart failure, Arranonfor cancer and Altabaxfor infections.
Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions
Typically, sales of existing products decline dramatically when generic
of many of the Group’s most important products, including Avandia,
competition is introduced either on patent expiry or earlier if there is
Zofran, Wellbutrin XL, Imitrex,Lamictal, Valtrex andPaxil CR, prior to
a successful challenge to the Group’s patent. GlaxoSmithKline is
the expiration of the Group’s patents, and have exhibited a readiness
engaged in legal proceedings regarding the validity and infringement
to do so for other products in the future. Generic products competitive
of the Group’s patents relating to many of its products. These are
with Paxil IR and Wellbutrin SR were launched in the USA in 2003 and
discussed in ‘Risk factors’ below and in Note 41 to the ffinancial
2004, respectively, and had a significant impact on the Group’s overall
statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
turnover and earnings.
GSK’s published earnings guidance for 2006 is that earnings per
Weakness of intellectual property protection in certain
share growth is expected to be around 10% in constant exchange
countries
rate terms.
In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent
The Group has net debt of £1.2 billion, which is low relative to its protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the
market capitalisation, and this positions it to take advantage of any European Union. In addition, in an effort to control public health
opportunities that might arise to build the business. crises, some developing countries, such as South Africa and Brazil,
have considered plans for substantial reductions in the scope of patent
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business that may
protection for pharmaceutical products. In particular, these countries
affect future performance including R&D projects, anticipated sales
could facilitate competition within their markets from generic
growth and expected earnings growth. These are discussed in ‘Risk
manufacturers who would otherwise be unable to introduce
factors’ below.
competing products for a number of years.
Risk factors Any loss of patent protection, including abrogation of patent rights
or compulsory licensing, is likely to affect adversely the Group’s
There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business. The
operating results in those national markets but is not expected to be
factors listed below are among those that the Group thinks could
material to the Group overall. Absence of adequate patent protection
cause the Group’s actual results to differ materially from expected and
could limit the opportunity to look to such markets for future sales
historical results.
growth.
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful new
products
Continued development of commercially viable new products is
critical to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that
decline upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall
sales. Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain
process. A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the process,
and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive
regulatory approval.
GSK Annual Report 2005
71
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsOutlook and Risk Factors
continued
Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and Anti-trust litigation
government investigations In the USA it has become increasingly common that following an
See Note41to the fifnancial statements, ’Legal proceedings’, for a adverse outcome in prosecution of patent infringement actions, the
discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations in which defendants and direct and indirect purchasers and other payers initiate
the Group is currently involved. Unfavourable resolution of these and anti-trust actions as well. Claims by direct and indirect purchasers and
similar future proceedings or investigations may have a material other payers are typically filed as class actions and the relief sought
adverse effect on the Group’s financial results. The Group has made may include treble damages and restitution claims. Damages in
material provisions in 2003, 2004 and 2005 related to legal adverse anti-trust verdicts are subject to automatic trebling in the USA.
proceedings and investigations which reduced its earnings. The Group
Sales, marketing and regulation
may also make additional significant provisions related to legal
The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory
proceedings and investigations in the future, which would reduce its
environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The failure to
earnings. In many cases the practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim
comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these jurisdictions
damages – compensatory, punitive and statutory – in amounts that
may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings. In the USA, for
bear no relationship to the underlying harm. Accordingly it is
example, the Group is responding to federal and state governmental
potentially misleading to quantify the potential exposure to claims,
investigations into pricing, marketing and reimbursement of its
proceedings and investigations of the type described in Note41.
prescription drug products. These investigations could result in related
Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product restitution or civil false claims act litigation on behalf of the federal or
liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and narrowed the state governments, as well as related proceedings initiated against
coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical companies the Group by or on behalf of consumers and private payers. Such
generally, including the Group. proceedings may result in trebling of damages awarded or fines in
respect of each violation of law. Criminal proceedings may also be
In order to contain insurance costs inrecent yearsthe Group has
initiated against Group companies or individuals.
continued to adjust its coverage profile, accepting a greater degree
of un-insured exposure. In addition, whereclaims are made under Risks of competition, price controls and limitations on sales
insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage on Third party competition
various grounds. If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld on these The Group operates in highly competitive businesses. In the
claims, this could result in material additional charges to the Group’s pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from proprietary
earnings. products of large international manufacturers and producers of
generic pharmaceuticals. Significant product innovations, technical
Product liability litigation
advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development
could adversely affect the Group’s operating results. Continued
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of products
consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect
for use by humans following approval by regulatory bodies.
the Group’s competitive position, while continued consolidation
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines are
among the Group’s customers may increase pricing pressures.The
introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may
Group had12products with over £500million in annual global sales
become evident. The Group is currently a defendant in a number of
in 2005.
product liability lawsuits, including class actions, that involve
substantial claims for damages related to the Group’s pharmaceutical Among these productsisAugmentin IR, with respect towhich the
products.Litigation, particularly in the USA, is inherently unpredictable Groupalready has generic competition, and Zofran, Imitrex, Valtrex,
and excessive verdicts that are not justified by the evidence can occur. Avandia and Wellbutrin XL, with respect to which the Group’s
Class actions that sweep together all persons who were prescribed the intellectual property rights in the USAare currently the subject of
Group’s products can inflate the potential liability by the force of litigation, and Flonase, for which the FDAapprovedthe firstgeneric
numbers. Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are versionin February 2006.
frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can
represent potentially open-ended exposure.
GSK Annual Report 2005
72
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsOutlook and Risk Factors
continued
If these or any of the Group’s other major products were to become Regulatory controls
subject to a problem such as loss of patent protection, unexpected The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls on
side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting doctor or the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of its
patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, or if a new, pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly in the
more effective treatment should be introduced, the adverse impact on USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not only the
the Group’s revenues and operating results could be significant. In cost of product development but also the time required to reach the
particular, the Group faces intense competition from manufacturers of market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so.Stricter regulatory
generic pharmaceutical products in all of its major markets.Generic controls also heighten the risk of withdrawal by regulatorson the
products often enter the market upon expiration of patents or data basis of post-approval concerns over product safety, which would
exclusivity periods for the Group’s products. Introduction of generic reduce revenues and can result in product recalls and product liability
products typically leads to a dramatic loss of sales and reduces the lawsuits.
Group’s revenues and margins for its proprietary products. The
In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily cease marketing
expiration dates for patents for the Group’s major products are set out
a product (for example the withdrawal of Lotronexin 2000 shortly
on page25and legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set
after its initial launch in the USA) or face declining sales based on
out in Note41to the fifnancial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
concerns about efficacy or safety, whether or not scientifically justified,
Governmental and payer controls even in the absence of regulatory action. The development of the
Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures and post-approval adverse event profile for a product or the product class
other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany, France may have a major impact on the marketing and sale of the product.
and Italy. Some governments intervene directly in setting prices. In
Risk of interruption of product supply
addition, in some markets major purchasers of pharmaceutical
The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent
products (whether governmental agencies or private health care
materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice
providers) have the economic power to exert substantial pressure on
regulations. The Group’s manufacturing sites are subject to review
prices or the terms of access to formularies.
and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Compliance
The Group cannot predict whether existing controls will increase or failure by suppliers of key materials or the Group’s own manufacturing
new controls will be introduced that will reduce the Group’s margins facilities could lead to product recalls and seizures, interruption of
or affect adversely its ability to introduce new products profitably. production and delays in the approvals of new products pending
resolution of manufacturing issues. Non-compliance can also result in
For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins and
fines and disgorgement of profits. Any interruption of supply or fines
most sales for any country, pricing pressures could significantly
or disgorgement remedy could materially and adversely affect the
increasefollowingimplementation of the pharmaceutical benefit
Group’s financial results. The Group’s Cidra, Puerto Rico facility has
under Medicare, or in the event that other state programmes to
worked at resolution of FDA observations of deficiencies in
control the cost ofprescription drugsare adopted.As experience
manufacturing practices and is subject to compliance with a consent
develops underthe Medicare programoutpatient pharmaceutical
decree entered into with the FDA during 2005, as referred to in Note
coverage for its beneficiaries in 2006, the US government, or the
41to theffinancial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. As a consequence
private insurers through which coverage will be offered, through their
of those discussions, supplies of certain products manufactured at
enormous purchasing power under the program could demand
Cidra were curtailed or constrictedwhich had an adverse impact on
discounts that may implicitly create price controls on prescription
sales in 2005.
drugs.Additionally, a number of states have proposed or implemented
various schemes to control prices for their own senior citizens’ While the Group undertakes business continuity planning, single
programs, including importation from other countries and bulk sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials and finished
purchases of drugs. The growth in the number of patients covered products creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory
through large managed care institutions in the USA, which is likely to non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites.
increase with implementation of the Medicarebenefit, also increases
pricing pressures on the Group’s products.These trends may adversely
affect the Group’s revenues and margins from sales in the USA.
GSK Annual Report 2005
73
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsOutlook and Risk Factors
continued
Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers Global political and economic conditions
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside the
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition UK. The Group’s management of foreign exchange rates is discussed
to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the in Operating and financial review and prospects, ‘Foreign exchange
three largest of which amounted to approximately 80% of the risk management’. Fluctuations in exchange rates between sterling
Group’s US pharmaceutical sales. At 31st December 2005, the Group and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the
had trade receivablesdue from these three wholesalers totalling Japanese Yen, materially affect the Group’s financial results.
£1,051 million (31st December 2004 – £710 million). The Group is
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest rates,
exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these
foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other economic
wholesalers such that, if one or more of them is affected by financial
factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of political unrest,
difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Group’s financial
legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in which
results.
the Group operates. These factors could materially affect the Group’s
Environmental liabilities future results of operations.
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and
Accounting standards
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites.
New or revised accounting standards and rules promulgated from
The Group has also been identified as a potentially responsible party
time to time byUS or international accounting standard setting boards
under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation
could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s reported financial
and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to
results. With the adoption of International Financial Reporting
the Group’s use or ownership of such sites. Failure to manage properly
Standards (IFRS), changes in the market valuation of certain financial
the environmental risks could result in additional remedial costs that
instruments (such as the equity collar linked to the Group’s investment
could materially and adversely affect the Group’s operations. See Note
in Quest Diagnostics, the put and call options linked to the Group’s
41to theffinancial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion
strategic alliance with Theravance and impairments of equity
of environmental-related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
investments) are reflected in the Group’s reported results before those
Reliance on information technology gains or losses are actually realised and could have a significant impact
The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology on theresults in any given period. The Group believes that it complies
systems, including Internet-based systems, for internal communication with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning its financial
as well as communication with customers and suppliers. Any statements and disclosures. However, other companies have
significant disruption of these systems, whether due to computer experienced investigations into potential non-compliance with
viruses or other outside incursions, could materially and adversely accounting and disclosure requirements that have resulted in
affect the Group’s operations. significant penalties.
Taxation Human resources
The effective tax rate on the Group’s earnings benefits from the fact The Group has approximately 100,000 employees around the world
that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable rates in some and is subject to laws and regulations concerning its employees –
jurisdictions outside the UK. Changes in tax laws or in their application ranging from discrimination and harassment to personal privacy to
with respect to matters, such as transfer pricing and the risk of double labour relations – that vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
taxation, that relate to the portion of the Group’s earnings taxed at Failure to continue to recruit and retain the right people and maintain
more favourable rates, could increase the Group’s effective tax rate a culture of compliance could have a significant adverse affect on the
and adversely affect its financial results.The Group has open issues Group.
with the revenue authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada. By
far the largest relates to Glaxo heritage products, in respect of which
the US Internal Revenue Service and UK Inland Revenue have made
competing and contradictory claims. These matters are discussed in
Note12to theffinancial statements, ‘Taxation’.
Disruption from pandemic influenza
In the event of pandemic influenza, the Group could be subject to
disruption from a range of factors. National governments may be
more willing to abrogate intellectual property rights for medicines
that might otherwise be in short supply. In a country afflicted by
pandemic flu, there would be a risk that employees and their families
will be affected with the consequence that sales and distribution and
manufacturing activities could be shut down and supply continuity –
for active ingredients and finished goods – affected.
GSK Annual Report 2005
74
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects2004 Year
In accordance with USSEC disclosure requirements, the following Pharmaceutical turnover
discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2004 with
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
the results for the year to 31st December 2003. The information has
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The sterling growth
been prepared under IFRS.
rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by
All growth rates are at constant exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise therapeutic area on page77.
stated. The sterling growth rates for turnover by product may be
Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2004 was £17,100 million compared
found in the table of pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area on
with £18,114 million in 2003, an increase of 1% CER. In sterling terms
page77.
turnover declined 6%,principally due to the weakness of the US
dollar.
Exchange
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
GSK’s ability to continue to deliver pharmaceutical turnover growth,
The pound hit its highest level against the dollar for more than four despite generic competition to several of its products, is primarily due
years, climbing to $1.92 at the year-end, and the Euro gained 1% to an exceptionally broad product portfolio of fast-growing, high-
against sterling and 8% against the dollar in 2004. This was the value products.
second consecutive year that the dollar has fallen in value against the
These include the respiratory product Seretide/Advair,up 19% (£2.4
Euro, due to the impact of continued unrest in Iraq, tension elsewhere
billion), the diabetes treatment Avandia/Avandamet,up 32% (£1.1
in the world and concerns for the US economy.
billion), Lamictalfor epilepsy/bipolar disorder, up 33% (£0.7 billion),
Valtrexfor herpes, up 24%(£0.6 billion),Coregfor heart disease, up
World market – pharmaceuticals
34% (£0.4 billion) and vaccines, up 11% (£1.2 billion).
Global pharmaceutical sales increased by 9% in 2004 to £284 billion.
In all, 12 GSK products each had sales of over £500 million in 2004.
World market by Value % of Growth
geographic region £bn total CER% £% Respiratory
USA 124.7 44 10 (2) GSK continuedto be the global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals
Europe 82.3 29 8 8 with sales of its three key products, Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Flovent
Germany 15.5 5 6 6 and Serevent, amounting to £3.4 billion, up 9%. Sales of
France 15.0 5 8 8 Seretide/Advair, the Group’s largest product,grew 19% to £2.4 billion
UK 10.5 4 10 10 although this contributed to declines in Sereventand Flixotide, its
Italy 9.7 3 6 6 constituent products.
Japan 30.9 11 3 1
In the USA, Advairsales grew 20% to £1.3 billion. Growth of Seretide
Asia Pacific 19.3 7 13 6
in Europe was also strong (up 19% to £882 million). International
Latin America 12.1 4 16 2
sales grew 15%, reflecting good growth in all geographic areas.
Middle East, Africa 8.6 3 13 5
Canada 6.0 2 10 8 The older respiratory products Ventolinand Becotidecontinued to
decline as patients converted to newer products.
Total 283.9 100 9 2
Central nervous system (CNS)
Growth in the US market has slowed but remains in double digits
CNS sales declined 16% to £3.5 billion. Sales declined in all regions.
and now represents 44% of the global prescription pharmaceutical
market compared to 30% a decade ago. Total sales ofPaxilwere down 39% to £1.1 billion as a result of generic
competition to Paxil IR, sales of which declined 53% to £667 million.
At 30th September 2004, GSK held second position in the world
Mitigating this decline was the strong performance of the product in
pharmaceutical market with a market share of 6.5%, behind Pfizer
Japan, up 25% to £171 million and the performance of Paxil CR,
with a market share of 10.1%. GSK had eightofthe world’s top 60
which generated sales of £396 million, up 14%.
pharmaceutical products. These were Augmentin, Avandia,
Imigran/Imitrex, Lamictal, Seretide/Advair, Seroxat/Paxil, Wellbutrin Total sales of Wellbutrinproducts fell 12% to £751 million. Wellbutrin
and Zofran. IR and SR sales fell 64% to £284 million as a result of generic
competition. This impact was partially offset, however, by the
World market – Value % of Growth exceptionally strong performance of Wellbutrin XL, the new once-
top five therapeutic classes £bn total CER% £% daily product, which achieved sales of £467 million in its first full year
Cardiovascular 48.3 17 9 3 on the market.
Central nervous system 47.1 17 11 4
The strong growth of GSK’s epilepsy and bi-polar disorder treatment
Alimentary tract and metabolic 35.1 12 6 (1)
Lamictalcontinued, with sales up 33% to £677 million. Ongoing US
Anti-infectives (bacterial, viral
growth, up 49% to £414 million, is being driven by the indication for
and fungal) excluding vaccines 30.6 11 6 (1)
the maintenance treatment of bi-polar disorder received in 2003.
Respiratory 19.5 7 5 (1)
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30thSeptember 2004.)
GSK Annual Report 2005
75
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsAnti-virals Total sales ofPaxil were down 51% to £519 million as a result of
Global HIV product sales rose 4% to £1.5 billion and sales in the USA generic competition to Paxil IR(sales of which declined 82% to £131
increased 4% to £747 million. GSK continued to grow its HIV million). Mitigating this decline was the performance of Paxil CR,
franchise, despite the launch of several new products by competitors. which generated sales of £388 million, up 13%.
HIV performance was enhanced by the launch of Epzicom, a new Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew 12%,with HIV products
combination product (Epivir/Ziagen) in the USA in August 2004. up 4%. Valtrex, for herpes, grew 30% driven by patients switching
to suppression therapy.
Sales of the herpes treatment Valtrex exceeded £500 million for the
first time in 2004 (up 24% to £571 million). Performancewasdriven Sales ofAvandia/Avandamet increased by 26%. Anti-bacterial sales
by the USA (up 30% to £369 million) where the product is the clear declined 24% as a result of generic competition that began in the
market leader in treatments for genital herpes. third quarter of 2002. Coregsales increased 37% as it continued to
benefit from its wide range of indications.
Anti-bacterials
Anti-bacterial sales declined 9% worldwide and 24% in the USA, Vaccines grew 6% reflecting the good performance of Pediarix.
reflecting generic competition in all regions.
Europe
Metabolic The discussion of individual market performance in the Europe region
is on a turnover created basis rather than a turnover invoiced basis.
The diabetes treatments Avandia/Avandametcontinuedto perform
See ‘2005 Year’ on page 60 for an explanation of the adjustments
very strongly, with overall sales of £1.1 billion (up 32%).
made.
Sales in the USA grew 26% to £852 million. Encouragingly, Avandia/
Europe region contributed 30% of pharmaceutical turnover. Although
Avandamet also grew very strongly in Europe and International
overall turnover growth in the region was only 2%, good growth was
markets with sales up 52% and 62%, respectively. Strong
recorded in Spain and Southern and Eastern Europe. Government
performance in these marketswasdriven by the growing acceptance
healthcare reforms, including pricing and reimbursement restrictions,
amongst opinion leaders and physicians of the benefits of these new
adversely affected turnover in France, Italy and Germany.
products in improving control for diabetic patients.
Seretide, GSK’s largest selling product in Europe, grew 19% and
Vaccines
reported notable growth in Spain and the UK. Seretide and its
The vaccines business had a strong year, with sales up 11% to £1.2
constituent products Sereventand Flixotidegrew9%.
billion. Several key productsdrovegrowth – Pediarix/Infanrixup 12%
to £356 million, Priorix, up 14% to £95 million and Fluarix, up 38% The decline in sales of the herpes franchise was mainly as a result of
to £79 million. generic competition for Zovirax, partially offset by patients switching
to the newer product, Valtrex.
Oncology and emesis
Sales of Zofran grew 8% to £763 million, driven by the US Seroxatsales were down 31%,reflecting generic competition in the
performance, up 10% to £565 million. UK and France.
Cardiovascular and urogenital Anti-bacterial sales declined 6% due to generic competition
In 2004, Coreg(for heart disease) sales grew 34% to £432 million. throughout the region
Other therapeutic areas Vaccines grew by 7% driven by the hepatitis franchise and Infanrix.
Sales of Zantac fell 12% to £273 million,with declines in all regions.
International
USA The International region reported year on year turnover growth of
The USA reported flat turnover in2004despite the significant impact 4%. Strong growth in Asia Pacific,up 8% and Latin America,up 8%,
of generic competition to Paxiland Wellbutrin. Excluding sales of was offset by flat sales in Australia and declines of 5% in Sub-Saharan
these products, turnover grew 10%. The US business represented Africa, 8% in the Middle East/North Africa and 11% in Canada. In
49% of total pharmaceutical turnover in 2004. Canada, the sales decline was due to generic erosion of Paxil IR,
excluding this element, Canada grew 4.5%.
Advairmaintained its strong growth with sales of £1,330 million, up
20%. However, this adversely affected sales of its constituent Japan recorded turnover growth of 5%, despite routine government
products, Floventand Serevent,which both showed declines. Flonase, price reductions being implemented in 2004. Paxil, up 25%, Serevent,
indicated for the treatment of perennial rhinitis, grew by 9%. up 74% and Valtrex, up 16% performed particularly well,offsetting
small declines in Zantacand Zovirax.
Sales of Wellbutrinproducts fell 12% to £735 million. Wellbutrin IR
and SR sales fell 65% to £270 million as a result of generic Across all markets in International, the key products driving growth
competition. The impact was partially offset, however, by the were Seretide, which grew 15% to record sales of £229 million,
exceptionally strong performance of Wellbutrin XL, the new once- Avandia/Avandamet, which grew 62% to £161 million and the
daily product, which achieved sales of £465 million in its first full year vaccines franchise, which recorded growth of21% and achieved sales
on the market. of £405 million.
GSK Annual Report 2005
76
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
2004 Year
continued2004 Year
continued
GSK Annual Report 2005
77
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2004
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2004 2003 Growth 2004 Growth 2004 Growth 2004 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 26 4,394 4,390 7 – 2,183 9 (3) 1,517 6 4 694 4 –
Seretide/Advair 2,441 2,192 19 11 1,330 20 8 882 19 17 229 15 12
Flixotide/Flovent 618 704 (7) (12) 251 (12) (21) 189 (7) (9) 178 3 –
Serevent 349 432 (15) (19) 129 (26) (34) 162 (13) (13) 58 24 21
Flixonase/Flonase 578 594 7 (3) 450 9 (2) 59 7 5 69 (5) (9)
Central Nervous System 20 3,462 4,446 (16) (22) 2,271 (19) (27) 747 (10) (11) 444 (7) (10)
Seroxat/Paxil 1,063 1,877 (39) (43) 519 (51) (56) 251 (31) (32) 293 (8) (11)
PaxilIR 667 1,490 (53) (55) 131 (82) (84) 251 (31) (32) 285 (10) (13)
Paxil CR 396 387 14 2 388 13 1 – – – 8 >100 >100
Wellbutrin 751 953 (12) (21) 735 (12) (21) 1 >100 >100 15 (37) (40)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 284 883 (64) (68) 270 (65) (69) 1 >100 >100 13 (44) (48)
Wellbutrin XL 467 70 >100 >100 465 >100 >100 – – – 2 >100 >100
Imigran/Imitrex 682 759 (2) (10) 492 (2) (12) 142 (1) (3) 48 (6) (9)
Lamictal 677 549 33 23 414 49 33 218 13 12 45 12 7
Requip 116 98 25 18 53 26 13 56 22 22 7 34 20
Anti-virals 14 2,359 2,345 8 1 1,165 12 1 724 2 – 470 7 1
HIV 1,462 1,505 4 (3) 747 4 (6) 558 3 1 157 8 1
Combivir 570 588 4 (3) 280 4 (7) 225 6 4 65 (1) (7)
Trizivir 322 375 (8) (14) 177 (10) (19) 130 (8) (9) 15 13 7
Epivir 294 293 7 – 139 4 (7) 115 10 8 40 14 5
Ziagen 155 167 – (7) 73 (5) (15) 60 (1) (2) 22 25 15
Retrovir 43 44 2 (2) 17 – (11) 16 4 – 10 3 –
Agenerase, Lexiva 63 38 80 66 46 >100 92 12 22 20 5 29 –
Herpes 718 668 15 7 380 31 17 138 (5) (6) 200 6 3
Valtrex 571 498 24 15 369 30 17 90 6 5 112 20 17
Zovirax 147 170 (10) (14) 11 38 22 48 (21) (23) 88 (7) (11)
Zeffix 130 129 7 1 11 18 10 22 28 29 97 3 (5)
Anti-bacterials 9 1,547 1,800 (9) (14) 356 (24) (32) 688 (6) (7) 503 1 (6)
Augmentin 708 825 (9) (14) 223 (21) (29) 298 (9) (10) 187 9 3
Augmentin IR 533 584 (5) (9) 59 (15) (21) 293 (10) (11) 181 8 2
Augmentin ES 74 135 (39) (45) 69 (42) (48) – – – 5 >100 100
Augmentin XR 101 106 6 (5) 95 1 (10) 5 >100 >100 1 >100 >100
Zinnat/Ceftin 205 232 (7) (12) 9 (52) (59) 120 1 (1) 76 (8) (15)
Metabolic 8 1,251 1,077 27 16 852 26 13 133 20 18 266 35 27
Avandia/Avandamet 1,114 929 32 20 852 26 13 101 52 49 161 62 52
Vaccines 7 1,194 1,121 11 7 268 6 (5) 521 7 6 405 21 17
Hepatitis 405 417 3 (3) 134 (5) (15) 200 7 5 71 9 3
Infanrix, Pediarix 356 336 12 6 129 16 3 161 11 10 66 8 3
Oncology and emesis 5 934 1,000 2 (7) 679 2 (9) 170 6 4 85 (5) (10)
Zofran 763 774 8 (1) 565 10 (2) 130 5 3 68 (2) (7)
Hycamtin 99 110 (3) (10) 64 (7) (17) 29 13 12 6 (19) (25)
Cardiovascular and 5
urogenital 932 770 31 21 563 27 14 261 51 49 108 16 9
Coreg 432 361 34 20 425 37 23 – – – 7 (43) (43)
Levitra 49 37 41 32 20 – (14) 21 87 82 8 >100 80
Avodart 64 19 >100 >100 34 >100 >100 27 >100 >100 3 >100 >100
Other 6 1,027 1,165 (7) (12) 88 (1) (11) 323 (5) (8) 616 (8) (14)
Zantac 273 328 (12) (17) 70 1 (9) 72 (21) (21) 131 (13) (17)
100 17,100 18,114 1 (6) 8,425 – (10) 5,084 2 1 3,591 4 (2)
CER% represents turnover growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.Consumer Healthcare sales Operatingprofit
2004 2003 Growth The analysis below ofoperatingprofit and subsequent discussion
£m £m CER% £%
compares the 2004 results with 2003 results.
OTC medicines 1,400 1,472 2 (5)
2004 2003 Growth
Analgesics 333 328 7 2
£m % £m % CER% £%
Dermatological 180 225 (15) (20)
Turnover 19,986 100.0 21,070 100.0 1 (5)
Gastro-intestinal 241 267 (2) (10)
Respiratory tract 145 144 3 1 Cost of sales (4,360) (21.8) (4,577) (21.7) – (5)
Smoking control 327 315 13 4 Selling, general
Natural wellness support 136 148 (2) (8) and administration (7,201) (36.0) (7,888) (37.4) (5) (9)
Research and
Oral care 913 915 4 –
development (2,904) (14.5) (2,865) (13.6) 8 1
Nutritional healthcare 573 569 4 1
Other operating
2,886 2,956 3 (2) income 235 1.1 310 1.4
Operatingprofit 5,756 28.8 6,050 28.7 6 (5)
The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of 3% to £2.9 billion
comprised an OTC medicines sales increase of2%, Oral care sales
increase of 4% and a Nutritional healthcare sales increase of4%. Cost of sales
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover remained broadly in line
OTCmedicines
with the prior year as reduced merger and manufacturing
OTC medicine sales were £1.4 billion, up 2%. Sales growth from
restructuring costs were offset by a significant weakening of the US
smoking control products in the USA, up 11%, and Europe, up 22%,
dollar relative to2003, the loss of higher margin Paxil IRand Wellbutrin
helped to offset the decline in dermatological products, which were
SR sales to generics, and an adverse product mix. Merger and
down 15% due to generic competition to Cutivate in the USA.
manufacturing restructuring costs were nil in 2004 but £356 million
Expansion of the Panadol brand in International markets helped
in 2003.
analgesics grow 7%.
Selling, general and administration
In July, GSK obtained the OTC marketing rights in the USA for orlistat,
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs declined5% (9%
an FDA-approved prescription product for obesity management
decline in sterling terms) reflecting savings in general and
marketed by Roche as Xenical.
administration that were partly offset by increased advertising,
Oral care promotion and selling costs. These latter costs increased1%, and
Oral care sales were £0.9 billion, up 4%. Strong growth in accounted for a one percentage point increase in total SG&A.
International of8% was led by the Sensodyne, Polidentand Poligrip General and administration costs declined14% and accounted for
brands. asixpercentage point reduction in total SG&A. This was due to lower
charges related to programmes to deliver future cost savings (equal
Nutritional healthcare
to a two percentage point reduction in total SG&A) and other general
Sales of Nutritional healthcare products grew4% to £0.6 billion.
expense reductions (equal to afourpercentage point decline in total
Lucozade grew6% to £237million.
SG&A).Net of currency movements, there was an overall reduction
of1.4percentage points relative to 2003 for expenses expressed as
a percentage of turnover.
Research and development
R&D expenditure increased 8% reflecting increased clinical trial
activity. Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure represented 16.4% of
pharmaceutical turnover in the year.
Other operatingincome
Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment
disposals and impairments and product disposals. Other operating
income was £235 million in 2004 compared with £310 million in
2003reflecting lower product and asset disposals.
GSK Annual Report 2005
78
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
2004 Year
continued2004 Year
continued
Operatingprofit Taxation
Overall theoperating profitmarginincreased0.1percentage points 2004 2003
£m £m
asoperatingprofit of £5,756million declined5% in sterling termson
UK corporation tax 273 383
a turnover decline of 5%. At constant exchange ratesoperatingprofit
Overseas taxation 1,394 1,578
increased 6%, reflecting the completion of the merger and
manufacturing restructuring programme in 2003andlower charges Current taxation 1,667 1,961
relating to programmes to deliver future cost savings, partly offset by Deferred taxation 90 (310)
increased R&D expenditureand lower product and asset disposals. Total 1,757 1,651
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of associates and joint
The charge for taxation on profit, amounting to £1,757 million,
ventures
represents an effective tax rate of 30.4% (2003 –27.7%).
The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s
holding inQuest Diagnostics Inc. The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving
significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
Disposal of interest in associates
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply
During 2004, the Group disposed of 3.8 million shares from its
routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
investment in Quest Diagnostics Inc. for cash proceeds of £188 million,
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which
reducing the Group’s shareholding at 31st December 2004 to 18.6%.
individual Group companies are liable to tax.Disagreements with,
After recognising a charge of £17 million for goodwill previously
and between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in
written off to reserves a profit of £139 million was recognised.
particular the price at which goods should be transferred between
2004 2003 Group companies in different tax jurisdictions, can produce
Finance income £m £m
conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be
Interest income 173 98 taxed in individual territories. Resolution of such issues is a continuing
Unwinding of discount on assets 3 3 fact of life for GSK. The Group has open issues with the revenue
176 101 authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada. By far the largest
relates to Glaxo heritage products, in respect of which the US Internal
2004 2003 Revenue Service (IRS) and UK Inland Revenue have made competing
Financecosts £m £m
and contradictory claims.
Interestcosts (346) (234)
Unwinding of discount onprovisions (16) (20) For the latest position on taxation see ‘Taxation’ in the 2005 Year
Operating and Financial review and prospects on page63.
(362) (254)
Profit before taxation
Taking account of finance income and financecosts, thecontribution
from associates and business disposals, profit before tax was £5,779
million compared with £5,954million in 2003, anincrease of9%
(3% decline in sterlingterms).
GSK Annual Report 2005
79
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospectsProfit for the year
2004 2003 Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Profit after taxation for the year 4,022 4,308 4 (7)
Profit attributable to
shareholders 3,908 4,201 4 (7)
Earnings per share (pence) 68.1p 72.3p 6 (6)
Earnings per ADS (US$) $2.49 $2.37 6 (6)
Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,736 5,806
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 68.0p 72.1p
Diluted earnings per ADS (US$) $2.49 $2.36
Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,748 5,824
Profit for the year was £4,022 million, an increase of 4% (7% decline
in sterling terms). Net of profits attributable to minority interests, profit
attributable to shareholders was £3,908 million, an increase of 4%
(7% decline in sterling terms).
EPS in 2004 was 68.1 pence compared with 72.3 pence in 2003. The
sterling based decline in EPS of 6% reflected the significant
weakening of the dollar. Excluding the effects of currency, statutory
EPS grew 6% reflecting the completion of the Group’s merger and
restructuring programmes in 2003 as well as underlying business
growth, partly offset by a higher tax rate.
Dividend
The Board declared a fourth interim dividend of 12 pence per share
making a total for the year of 42 pence per share. This compared
with a total dividend of 41 pence per share for 2003.
GSK Annual Report 2005
80
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Operating and financial review and prospects
2004 Year
continuedFinancial statements
This section comprises the Directors’ statements of responsibility, the
Independent Auditors’ report on the financial statementsandthe
consolidated financial statements consisting of the principal financial
statements and supporting notes prepared under IFRSas adopted for
use in the European Union. Also presentedis the balance sheetof
GlaxoSmithKline plc,which hasbeen prepared under UKGAAP.
Directors’ statements of responsibility 82
Independent Auditors’ report 83
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 84
Consolidated balance sheet 85
Consolidated cash flow statement 86
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 88
Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements 89
2. Accounting policies 89
3. New accounting policies and future requirements 92
4. Exchange rates 92
5. Segment information 93
6. Other operating income 95
7. Operating profit 95
8. Employee costs 96
9. Finance income 97
10. Financecosts 97
11. Associates and joint ventures 97
12. Taxation 97
13. Earnings per share 100
14. Dividends 100
15. Property, plant and equipment 101
16. Goodwill 102
17. Other intangible assets 103
18. Investments in associates and joint ventures 104
19. Other investments 105
20. Other non-current assets 105
21. Inventories 105
22. Trade and other receivables 106
23. Cash and cash equivalents 106
24. Assets held for sale 106
25. Trade and other payables 106
26. Pensions and other post-employment benefits 107
27. Other provisions 113
28. Other non-current liabilities 113
29. Contingent liabilities 114
30. Net debt 114
31. Share capital and share premium account 116
32. Movementsin equity 117
33. Related party transactions 118
34. Acquisitions and disposals 119
35. Commitments 122
36. Financial instruments and related disclosures 123
37. Employee share schemes 132
38. Reconciliation to US accounting principles 135
39. Principal Group companies 147
40. Transition to IFRS 150
41. Legal proceedings 157
Balance sheetof GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared
under UKGAAP 165
GSK Annual Report 2005
81
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFDirectors’ statements of responsibility
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation to Internal control
the consolidated financialstatements
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
The Directors areresponsible for: assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the system
•ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting records, which
of internal control in operation intheGroup for the year covered by
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group
this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
at any time and from which financial statements can beprepared
to comply with the Companies Act1985and Article 4 of the IAS
The Combined Code
Regulation
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles of
•preparingfinancial statements for each financial period which give
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial
a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in
Reporting Council, asdescribed under ‘Corporate governance’on
the European Union,of the state of affairs of theGroup as at the
pages 27 to 36, and has complied with its provisions except as
end of the financial period and ofthe profit or loss for that period
described on pages 35 and 36.
•ensuring the operation of systems of internalcontrol and for taking
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the
reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and for
auditors haveconsidered the Directors’ statement of compliance in
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified
The financialstatements for the year ended 31st December 2005, for theirreview.
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out
in‘Financial statements’ on pages84 to 164of this report. Annual Report
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2005,
consistently applied in the preparation of the financialstatements, comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, the
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates Financial statements and additional information for investors, has
asnecessary. been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report (page83
opposite).
The financialstatements for the year ended 31st December 2005are
included in the Annual Report 2005, which is published in hard-copy
printed form and made available on the website. The Directors are
Sir Christopher Gent
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
Chairman
on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
1stMarch 2006
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to the
website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation
may be different.
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 54 sets out the
remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on
Directors’ remuneration and other disclosable information relating to
Directors and officers and their interests. It has been prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and complies with Section
B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Going concern basis
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
expectationthat the Grouphasadequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Forthis reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis inpreparing the financial
statements.
GSK Annual Report 2005
82
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFIndependent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline Basis of audit opinion
plc for the year ended 31stDecember 2005 which comprise the
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
consolidated balance sheet, consolidated income statement,
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
consolidated cash flow statement, consolidated statement of
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
recognised income and expense and the related notes. These group
to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements. It
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
set out therein.
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group
We have reported separately on the parent company financial financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31stDecember appropriate to the group’s circumstances, consistently applied and
2005 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report adequately disclosed.
that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order
Respective responsibilities of directors and
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance
auditors
that the group financial statements are free from material
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adoptedbythe presentation of information in the group financial statements.
European Union are set out in the Directors’ statements of
responsibility. Opinion
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in In our opinion:
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
•the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
accordance with IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union, of the
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
state of the group’s affairs as at 31stDecember 2005 and of its
company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the
profit and cash flows for the year then ended; and
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or •the group financial statements have been properly prepared in
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Regulation.
in writing.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial
statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial As explained in Note 1 to the group financial statements, the group
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also as adopted bythe European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs
report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not consistent as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
with the group financial statements, if we have not received all the
In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and fair view,
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the group’s affairs as at 31st
information specified by law regarding director’s remuneration and
December 2005 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then
other transactions is not disclosed.
ended.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not
required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of the group’s corporate governance procedures or its
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and London
consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial 1stMarch2006
statements. The other information comprises onlythe joint statement
by the Chairman and Chief Executive, the financial summary,
description of business, the corporate governance statement and the
operating and financial review and prospects. We consider the
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial
statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
GSK Annual Report 2005
83
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFConsolidated income statement
for the year ended 31st December 2005
2005 2004 2003
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 5 21,660 19,986 21,070
Cost of sales (4,764) (4,360) (4,577)
Gross profit 16,896 15,626 16,493
Selling, general and administration (7,250) (7,201) (7,888)
Research and development (3,136) (2,904) (2,865)
Other operating income 6 364 235 310
Operating profit 7,8 6,874 5,756 6,050
Finance income 9 257 176 101
Financecosts 10 (451) (362) (254)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 11 52 60 57
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 34 – 149 –
Profit before taxation 6,732 5,779 5,954
Taxation 12 (1,916) (1,757) (1,651)
Profit on disposalof businesses – – 5
Profit after taxation for the year 4,816 4,022 4,308
Profit attributable to minority interests 127 114 107
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,689 3,908 4,201
4,816 4,022 4,308
Basic earnings per share (pence) 13 82.6p 68.1p 72.3p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 13 82.0p 68.0p 72.1p
GSK Annual Report 2005
84
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFConsolidated balance sheet
at 31st December 2005
2005 2004
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 15 6,652 6,197
Goodwill 16 696 304
Other intangible assets 17 3,383 2,513
Investments in associates and joint ventures 18 276 209
Otherinvestments 19 362 298
Deferred tax assets 12 2,214 2,032
Other non-current assets 20 438 611
Total non-current assets 14,021 12,164
Current assets
Inventories 21 2,177 2,193
Current tax recoverable 12 416 155
Trade and other receivables 22 5,348 4,451
Liquid investments 30 1,025 1,512
Cash and cash equivalents 23 4,209 2,467
Assets held for sale 24 2 2
Total current assets 13,177 10,780
Total assets 27,198 22,944
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 30 (1,200) (1,582)
Trade and other payables 25 (5,147) (4,267)
Current tax payable 12 (2,269) (1,753)
Short-term provisions 27 (895) (962)
Total current liabilities (9,511) (8,564)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 30 (5,271) (4,381)
Deferred tax provision 12 (569) (569)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 26 (3,069) (2,519)
Other provisions 27 (741) (569)
Other non-current liabilities 28 (467) (405)
Total non-current liabilities (10,117) (8,443)
Total liabilities (19,628) (17,007)
Net assets 7,570 5,937
Equity
Share capital 31 1,491 1,484
Share premium account 31 549 304
Retained earnings 32 5,579 4,542
Other reserves 32 (308) (606)
Shareholders’ equity 7,311 5,724
Minority interests 259 213
Total equity 7,570 5,937
Approved by the Board on1stMarch 2006
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2005
85
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFConsolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31st December 2005
2005 2004 2003
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 7,665 6,527 7,005
Taxation paid (1,707) (1,583) (1,917)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,958 4,944 5,088
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (903) (788) (746)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 54 53 46
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 221 – –
Purchase of intangible assets (278) (255) (316)
Purchase of equity investments (23) (103) (63)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 35 58 125
Share transactions with minority shareholders 34 (36) – –
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 34 (1,026) (297) (12)
Disposal of businesses and interest in associates 34 (2) 230 3
Investments in associates and joint ventures 34 (2) (2) (3)
Interest received 290 173 104
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 10 11 1
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,660) (920) (861)
Cash flow from financing activities
Decrease/(increase) in liquidinvestments 550 (53) (373)
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 68 23 26
Issue of share capital 31 252 42 41
Share capital purchased for cancellation – (201) (980)
Purchase of Treasury shares (999) (799) –
Redemption of preference shares issued by subsidiary – (489) –
Increase in long-term loans 982 1,365 1,046
Repayment of long-term loans (70) (15) (23)
Net repayment of short-term loans (857) (407) (442)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (36) (22) –
Interest paid (381) (350) (236)
Dividends paid to shareholders (2,390) (2,475) (2,333)
Dividends paid to minority interests (86) (73) (84)
Dividends paid on preference shares – (2) (15)
Other financing cash flows 53 49 82
Net cash outflow from financing activities (2,914) (3,407) (3,291)
Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 1,384 617 936
Exchange adjustments 233 (93) (110)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 2,355 1,831 1,005
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,972 2,355 1,831
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 2,467 1,986
Overdrafts (237) (112) (155)
3,972 2,355 1,831
GSK Annual Report 2005
86
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFSupplementary information on cash flow
for the year ended 31st December 2005
Reconciliation of operating profit to operating cash flows 2005 2004 2003
Notes £m £m £m
Operating profit 6,874 5,756 6,050
Adjustments:
Depreciation 710 691 704
Impairment and assets written off 193 94 255
Amortisation of intangible assets 194 168 127
(Profit)/losson sale of property, plant and equipment (19) 2 –
(Profit)/losson sales of intangible assets (203) 1 (7)
Profiton sale of equity investments (15) (33) (89)
Fair value loss on inventory sold – 13 –
Changes in working capital:
Decrease/(increase)in inventories 47 (33) (76)
Increase in trade and other receivables (397) (235) (369)
Increase/(decrease)in trade and other payables 491 163 (74)
(Decrease)/increasein pension and other provisions (453) (351) 71
Share-based incentive plans 236 333 375
Other 7 (42) 38
Net cash inflow from operating activities 7,665 6,527 7,005
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Net debt at beginning of year (1,984) (1,648) (2,335)
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS39 13 – –
Increasein cash and bank overdrafts 1,384 617 936
Cash(inflow)/outflowfrom liquid investments (550) 53 373
Net increase in long-term loans (912) (1,350) (1,023)
Net repayment of short-term loans 857 407 442
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 36 22 –
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired (68) – –
Exchange adjustments 39 24 (37)
Other non-cash movements (52) (109) (4)
Movement in net debt 747 (336) 687
Net debt at end of year 30 (1,237) (1,984) (1,648)
At 31.12.04
as previously Adjusted
Analysis of changes in net debt reported for IAS 39 At 1.1.05 Exchange Other Acquisitions Cash flow At 31.12.05
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 1,512 3 1,515 15 – 45 (550) 1,025
Cash and cash equivalents 2,467 – 2,467 235 – (2) 1,509 4,209
Overdrafts (112) – (112) (2) – – (123) (237)
2,355 – 2,355 233 – (2) 1,386 3,972
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (830) – (830) – – – 254 (576)
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes (552) 3 (549) (3) (294) – 555 (291)
Other (88) – (88) (13) – (46) 51 (96)
(1,470) 3 (1,467) (16) (294) (46) 860 (963)
Debt due after one year:
Eurobonds, Medium-Term Notes and
private financing (4,302) 7 (4,295) (192) 301 – (974) (5,160)
Other (79) – (79) (1) (59) (67) 95 (111)
(4,381) 7 (4,374) (193) 242 (67) (879) (5,271)
Net debt (1,984) 13 (1,971) 39 (52) (70) 817 (1,237)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note30‘Net debt’.
GSK Annual Report 2005
87
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFSTNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31st December 2005
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets 203 (47) 53
Tax on exchange movements 99 (73) (90)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments (1) – –
Deferred tax on fair value movements (10) – –
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange 9 6 (7)
Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit plans (794) 108 (432)
Deferred tax on actuarial movementsin defined benefit plans 257 (17) 121
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (4) – –
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedge 1 – –
Net losses recognised directly in equity (240) (23) (355)
Profit for the year 4,816 4,022 4,308
Total recognised income and expense for the year 4,576 3,999 3,953
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS 39 (12)
Total recognised income and expense 4,564
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 4,423 3,906 3,919
Minority interests 153 93 34
4,576 3,999 3,953
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS 39 attributable to:
Shareholders (16)
Minority interests 4
(12)
GSK Annual Report 2005
88Notes to the financial statements
1Presentation of the financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the
Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board and described in
Description of business
Note 2.
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is engaged
in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture and Conversion to IFRS
marketing of pharmaceutical products, including vaccines, over-the- This is the first year that GlaxoSmithKline has produced financial
counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer products. statements under IFRS. The adoption of IFRS has resulted in a number
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products include of significant adjustments to the previously reported results and equity
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: central nervous system, shareholders’ funds presented under UK generally accepted
respiratory, anti-virals, anti-bacterials, vaccines, oncology and emesis, accounting principles (UKGAAP). The main changes were in relation
metabolic, cardiovascular and urogenital. to share-based payments, pensions, intangible assets, deferred
taxation and financial instruments.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS 1, First-Time Adoption of international Financial Reporting
Companies Act 1985, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and Standards, permits those companies adopting IFRSfor the first time
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial to take some exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, as adopted for transition period. GlaxoSmithKline has adopted the following key
use in the European Union. exemptions:
For GSK, therearenodifferencesbetween IFRS as adopted for use in •Business combinations: Business combinations prior to the transition
the European Union and full IFRS as published by the International date (1st January 2003) have not been restated onto an IFRS basis
Accounting Standards Board.
•Share-based payments: IFRS2, ‘Share-based Payment’, applies to
Financial period equity instruments, such as share options granted since 7th
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1st January November 2002, but GlaxoSmithKline has elected to adopt full
to 31stDecember 2005, with comparative figures for the financial retrospective application of the standard
years from 1st January to 31st December 2004 and from 1st January
•Financial instruments: Financial instruments in the comparative
to31st December 2003.
periods presented in the Annual Report 2005 (i.e. 2004 and 2003)
Composition of the Group are recorded on theUKGAAP basisapplicable in those years, rather
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the opinion than in accordance with IAS 32 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosure
of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or the net and Presentation’ and IAS39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition
assets of the Group is given in ‘Principal Group companies’, Note39. and Measurement’.
Composition of financial statements See Note40 for further details.
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in accordance
Parent company financial statements
with IFRS and with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial
The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline
statements comprise:
plc, have been prepared in accordance with UKGAAP and with UK
•Consolidated income statement accounting presentation. Thecompany balance sheet ispresented on
•Consolidated balance sheet page167.
•Consolidated cash flow statement
•Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 2Accounting policies
•Notes to the financial statements.
Consolidation
Additional information in accordance with the requirements of The consolidated financial statements include:
USgenerally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) is included in
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the
the notes to the financial statements. In Note38a statement of
company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
differences, and reconciliations of net income and shareholders’
equity, between IFRS and US GAAP are provided. •the Group’s share of the net assets and results of associates and
joint ventures.
Accounting convention
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to 31st
convention, modified for certain items carried at fair value, as stated December.
in the accounting policies.
Entities over which the Group has the ability to exercise control are
Accounting principles and policies accounted for as subsidiaries; where the Group has the ability to
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with exercise joint control, they are accounted for as joint ventures; and
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to where the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence, they
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of are accounted for as associates.
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the effective date
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated upto the date of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
disposal.
could differ from those estimates.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2005
89STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2Accounting policiescontinued Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated; no
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries or on sales to
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past
joint ventures and associates until the products are sold to customers
event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
outside the Group. Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit
estimated. Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the
is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
income statement as incurred. Shipment costs on intercompany
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interestsin subsidiaries, joint transfers are charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales to
ventures and associates, representing the excess of the purchase customers are included in selling, general and administrative
consideration over the Group’s share of the fair values of the expenditure. Restructuring costs are recognised in respect of the direct
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is expenditure of a business reorganisation where the plans are
capitalised asa separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as part sufficiently detailed and well advanced, and where appropriate
of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and associates. communication to those affected has been undertaken.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the operation acquired.
Research and development
In the case of acquisitions prior to 1998, goodwill was written off
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
directly to equity; on a subsequent disposal of assets from such
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development
acquisitions, any related goodwill remains in equity and is not charged
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
to the consolidated income statement. Business combinations have
are met, usuallywhen aregulatory filing has been made in a major
not been restated in 2004 and 2003.
marketand approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in
are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using the accordance with the Group’s policy.
equity method of accounting.
Environmental expenditure
Assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, of overseas Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated into sterling from past or current operations and from which no current or future
at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results and benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. The Group
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably
translated into sterling using average rates of exchange. Exchange estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total costs
adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’ costs when
theyear retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective shares
are translated into sterling, less exchange differences arising on related of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of reimbursements are recorded
foreign currency borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment as assets when virtually certain.
in these operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
When translating into sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are
flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over
reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, adjustments the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the
aremade to reflect current price levels. Any loss on net monetary employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of qualified
assetsis charged to the consolidated income statement. actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the present value of
estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields
Foreign currency transactions
of high quality corporate bonds.
Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked inlocal
currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are retranslated into local date. Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the expected
currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. and actual returns, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions
Exchange differences areincluded in the income statement. are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense
in the year in which they arise. The Group’s contributions to defined
Revenue
contribution plans are charged to the income statement as incurred.
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or
services are supplied or made available to external customers against The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a similar
orders received and when title and risk of loss passes to the customer. way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over the period
Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of discounts during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees’
and allowances given and accruals for estimated future rebates and services, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
returns. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates
Legal and other disputes
and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of
Provision is made for anticipated settlement costs where a reasonable
contractual and historical information and past experience. Turnover
estimate can be made of the likely outcome of legal or other disputes
also includes co-promotion income where the Group records its share
against the Group. In addition, provision is made for legal or other
of the revenue but no related cost of sales. Value added tax and other
expenses arising from claims received or other disputes.
sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
GSK Annual Report 2005
90Notes to the financial statements
continued
2Accounting policies continued Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed to
In respect of product liability claims related to products where there
have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
is sufficient history of claims made and settlements, an “incurred but
not reported” (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine a Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure to unasserted claims for liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, this
those products and a provision is made on that basis. excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income statement.
No provision is made for other unasserted claims or where an Intangible assets
obligation exists under a dispute but it is not possible to make a Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation and
reasonable estimate. Costs associated with claims made by the Group impairments.
against third parties are charged to the income statement as they are
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately
incurred.
acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are amortised
Employee share plans over their estimated useful lives from the time they are available for
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under use. The estimated useful lives for determining the amortisation
share option and share award schemes. These options and awards are charge are reviewed annually, andtake into account the estimated
fair valued at their grant dates and the cost is charged to the income time it takes to bring the compounds or products to market.
statement over the relevant vesting periods. This has been applied on Anydevelopment costs incurred by the Group and associated with
a fully retrospective basis. acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are written
off to the income statement whenincurred, unless the criteria for
The Group provides finance to ESOPTrusts to purchase company
recognition of an internally generated intangible asset are met.
shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares
when employees exercise their options or awards. Costs of running Brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of businesses
the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement. Shares held by acquired from third parties where the brand has a value which is
the ESOPTrusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the substantial and long-term and where the brands can be sold
value of the proceeds receivable from employees on exercise. If there separately from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands
is deemed to be a permanent impairment in value this is reflected by areamortised over their estimated useful lives, except where it is
a transfer to retained earnings. considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
Property, plant and equipment Prior to 1998, acquired minor brands and similar intangibles were
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the cost of purchase eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves in the year of
or construction less provisions for depreciation and impairment. acquisition.
Financing costs are not capitalised.
The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of PP&E, excluding use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible
freehold land, using the straight-line basis over its expected useful fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant business
life. The normal expected useful lives of the major categories of PP&E system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset.
are reviewed annually and are: ERP systems software is amortised over seven years and other
computer software over three to five years.
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
Impairment of non-current assets
Leasehold land and Lease term or 20 to 50 years
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for
buildings
impairment when there is an indication that the assets might be
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years
impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite
Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use
Ondisposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for impairment is
and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
Investments in associates and joint ventures
Leases Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share oftheir net assets at
benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits or
leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The assets are losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
included inPP&E or computer software and the capital elements of
Available-for-sale investments
the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance
Available-for-sale investments are initially recorded at cost and then
leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis
remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised
consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter. The
gains and losses on available-for-sale investments are recognised
interest element of the lease rental is included in the income
directly in equity. On disposal or impairment of the investments, the
statement. All other leases are operating leases and the annual rentals
gains and losses in equity are recycled into the income statement.
are included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the
Equity investments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are
lease term.
expected to be sold within one year.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2005
91STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging (2004 and 2003)
IAS 32 and 39 were adopted by the Group on 1st January 2005. The
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on the
2004 and 2003 information relating to financial instruments remains
trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale
as reported under UKGAAP and applying the following policies.
investments are accounted for on settlement date.
Derivative contracts are treated from inception as an economic hedge
In 2004 and 2003 equity investments are recorded at cost.
of the underlying financial instrument with matching accounting
Inventories treatment and cash flows. Derivative instruments no longer
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of cost designated as hedges are restated at market value and any future
(including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related changes in value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is generally
Currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to fix the value
determined on a first in, first out basis.
of the related asset or liability in the contract currency and at the
Taxation contract rate are accrued to the profit and loss account over the life
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying of the contract.
tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the
Gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges
balance sheet date.
of forecast foreign exchange transactions are deferred and included
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on in the measurement of the related foreign currency transactions in the
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and period they occur. Gains and losses on balance sheet hedges are
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. accrued and are taken directly to reserves except that forward
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that premiums/discounts are recognised as interest over the life of the
future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary contracts.
differences can be utilised.
Interest differentials under interest swap agreements are recognised
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on in the profit and loss account by adjustment of interest expense over
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except the life of the agreement.
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not 3New accounting policies and future requirements
reverse in the foreseeable future.
The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretation have been issued by the
Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been enacted or IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax liabilities
IFRS7 ‘Financial instruments: disclosures’ was issued in August 2005
and assets are not discounted.
and is required to be implemented by GSKfrom 1st January 2007. This
Derivative financial instruments and hedging (2005) new standard incorporates the disclosure requirements of IAS32,
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to which it supersedes, and adds further quantitative and qualitative
market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative disclosures in relation to financial instruments.
instruments used by GlaxoSmithKline are foreign currency swaps,
IFRIC 4 ‘Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease’ was
interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. The
issued in December 2004 and is required to be implemented by GSK
Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
from 1st January 2006. The interpretation requires arrangements
trading or speculative purposes.
which may have the nature, but not the legal form, of a lease to be
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance accounted for in accordance with IAS17 ‘Leases’. This interpretation
sheet at cost and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
fair value. Hedging derivatives are classified on inception as fair value
hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges. Changes in the 4Exchange rates
fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded
The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the
in the income statement, with the changes in the fair value of the
period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries,
hedged asset or liability.
joint ventures and associated undertakings into sterling and period
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges end rates to translate the net assets of those undertakings.
are recognised in equity. Amounts deferred in equity are transferred The currencies which most influence these translations, and the
to the income statement in line with the hedged forecast transaction. relevant exchange rates, were:
2005 2004 2003
Hedges of net investments in foreign entities are accounted for in a
Average rates:
similar way to cash flow hedges.
£/US$ 1.82 1.83 1.64
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not £/Euro 1.46 1.47 1.45
qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the £/Yen 200.00 197.00 191.00
income statement. Period end rates:
£/US$ 1.72 1.92 1.79
£/Euro 1.46 1.41 1.42
£/Yen 203.00 197.00 192.00
GSK Annual Report 2005
92Notes to the financial statements
continued
5Segment information
The Group’s primary segment reporting is by business sector with geographical reporting being the secondary format. The business sectors consist
of Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines) and Consumer Healthcare (oral care, OTC medicines and nutritional healthcare).
The geographical sectors of the USA, Europe and International (other Rest of World markets) reflect the Group’s most significant regional markets
and are consistent with the Group’s regional market management reporting structure. Business sector data includes an allocation of corporate costs
to each sector on an appropriate basis. There are no sales between business sectors.The Group’s activities are organised on a global basis. The
geographical sector figures are therefore influenced by the location of the Group’s operating resources, in particular manufacturing and research,
and by variations over time in intra-Group trading and funding arrangements.Turnover is shown by business sector and by location of customer.
Other geographic information is given by location of subsidiary. The UK segment information gives turnover by location of customer and location
of subsidiary. The UK operating profit, total assets and net assets are also shown.Where the Group co-promotes a product and the third party
records the sale, the Group records its share of revenue as co-promotion income within turnover. The nature of co-promotion activities is such that
the Group records no costs of sales. Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotionrevenueof £112million (2004 – £65million, 2003 – £35million).
2005 2004 2003
Turnover by business sector £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 18,661 17,100 18,114
Consumer Healthcare 2,999 2,886 2,956
Turnover 21,660 19,986 21,070
Profit by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 6,159 5,126 5,519
Consumer Healthcare 715 630 531
Operating profit 6,874 5,756 6,050
Finance income 257 176 101
Finance costs (451) (362) (254)
Share of profits after tax of associates and joint ventures:
Pharmaceuticals 52 60 57
ConsumerHealthcare – – –
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – 149 –
Profit before taxation 6,732 5,779 5,954
Taxation (1,916) (1,757) (1,651)
Profit on disposals of businesses – – 5
Profit after taxation for the year 4,816 4,022 4,308
Investments in associates and joint ventures by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 276 209
Consumer Healthcare – –
Investment in associates and joint ventures 276 209
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by business sector
Additions
Pharmaceuticals 2,031 1,301
Consumer Healthcare 164 150
Total additions 2,195 1,451
Depreciation/amortisation
Pharmaceuticals (807) (766)
Consumer Healthcare (97) (93)
Total depreciation/amortisation (904) (859)
Impairment
Pharmaceuticals (92) (39)
Consumer Healthcare – (5)
Total impairment (92) (44)
Impairment reversal
Pharmaceuticals 3 11
Consumer Healthcare – –
Total impairment reversal 3 11
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2005
93STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
5Segment information continued
2005 2004
Total assets by business sector £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 16,431 14,239
ConsumerHealthcare 2,446 2,323
Total operating assets 18,877 16,562
Investments in associates 276 209
Liquid investments 1,025 1,512
Derivative financial instruments 179 5
Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 2,467
Current and deferred taxation 2,630 2,187
Tangible assets held for sale 2 2
Total assets 27,198 22,944
Total liabilities by business sector
Pharmaceuticals (9,099) (7,687)
Consumer healthcare (1,070) (963)
Total operating liabilities (10,169) (8,650)
Short-term borrowings (1,200) (1,582)
Long-term borrowings (5,271) (4,381)
Derivative financial instruments (150) (72)
Current and deferred taxation (2,838) (2,322)
Total liabilities (19,628) (17,007)
2005 2004 2003
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
USA 9,867 9,191 10,276
Europe 6,892 6,395 6,346
International 4,901 4,400 4,448
Turnover 21,660 19,986 21,070
2005 2004
Property, plant and equipment and intangible asset additions by location £m £m
USA 509 323
Europe 742 976
International 944 152
Total additions 2,195 1,451
Total assets by location
USA 4,459 3,588
Europe 16,423 16,536
International 5,020 2,921
Inter-segment trading balances (7,025) (6,483)
Total operating assets 18,877 16,562
Investments in associates 276 209
Liquid investments 1,025 1,512
Derivative financial instruments 179 5
Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 2,467
Current and deferred taxation 2,630 2,187
Tangible assets held for sale 2 2
Total assets 27,198 22,944
GSK Annual Report 2005
94Notes to the financial statements
continued
5Segment information continued
UK Segment
For the purposes of USGAAP information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market
region, is considered the Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,431 1,382 1,338
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 4,414 4,386 4,610
Inter-segment turnover 2,657 2,709 2,883
Turnover by location of subsidiary 1,757 1,677 1,727
Operating profit 1,576 1,327 1,438
Total assets 7,057 6,521
Net operating assets 2,290 2,253
6Other operating income
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Royalties 83 96 75
Asset disposal profits 290 146 242
Other income including fair value adjustments (9) (7) (7)
364 235 310
Royaltiesareprincipally a core of recurring incomefrom the out-licensing of intellectual property. Asset disposal profits include product
divestments and disposals of equity investments, intellectual property and tangible property. Other income includes equity investment carrying
value adjustments arising from stock market changes and fair value adjustments arising on the Quest Collar and Theravance put and call options.
7Operating profit
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
The following items have been charged in operating profit:
Employee costs (Note8) 5,254 5,054 5,461
Advertising 697 599 615
Distribution costs 270 266 279
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 710 691 704
Amortisation of intangibleassets 194 168 127
Net foreign exchange (gains)/losses (3) 72 41
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 4,335 4,032 4,337
Write-down of inventories 119 142 105
Reversal ofprior yearwrite-down of inventories (61) (49) (20)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 104 110 144
Contingent rents 12 9 8
Sub-lease payments 1 – –
Audit fees 8.5 7.2 6.9
Fees to auditors for other work:
Auditors’ UKfirm 1.8 2.6 1.7
Auditors’ overseas firms 4.2 4.7 5.9
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2005
95STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
7 Operating profit continued
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Analysis of fees to auditors for other work:
Advisory services related to section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 2.4 2.0 1.3
Other non-statutory assurance services 1.0 1.4 1.3
Tax compliance services 0.7 1.0 0.8
Tax planning and advice 1.6 2.0 3.8
Other services 0.3 0.9 0.4
Included within audit fees above is a fee of £10,700 (2004 – £10,000, 2003 – £10,000) relating to the company audit of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Included within other non-statutory assurance services are amounts related to the Group’s preparation for the adoption of International Financial
Reporting Standards. Other services include human resources advisory, compliance and treasury related services.
At 31st December 2005, the amount due to PricewaterhouseCoopers for fees yet to be invoiced was £3.0 million, comprising statutory audit
£2.1 million, further assurance £0.7 million and taxation services of £0.2 million.
8 Employee costs
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 4,152 3,864 3,999
Social security costs 432 430 444
Pension and other post-employment costs(see Note 26) 350 347 421
Cost of share-based incentive plans 236 333 375
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 84 80 222
5,254 5,054 5,461
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare
insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
2005 2004 2003
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year Number Number Number
Manufacturing 30,906 31,427 34,265
Selling, general and administration 53,634 53,513 54,128
Research and development 14,963 14,897 14,773
99,503 99,837 103,166
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of each financial
year are given in the Financial recordonpage180.The average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2005 was nil
(2004 – nil).
The compensation of the Directors, the CET and the Company Secretary, in aggregate,was as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 17 13 16
Social security costs 1 1 1
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 2 1
Cost of share-based incentive plans 15 16 19
36 32 37
Information on Directors’ remuneration is given in the Remuneration Report on pages37to54.
GSK Annual Report 2005
96Notes to the financial statements
continued
9 Finance income 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Interest income 268 173 98
Unwinding of discount on assets – 3 3
Interest on extended credit on receivables 8 – –
Net investment hedges (17) – –
Fair value adjustments on non-hedging derivatives (2) – –
257 176 101
10 Finance costs 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (11) (6) (6)
Interest on other loans (412) (337) (226)
Interest in respect of finance leases (4) (2) (2)
Realised losses on financial instruments – (1) –
Unwinding of discount on provisions (25) (16) (20)
Fair value hedges 2 – –
Fair value adjustments on non-hedging derivatives (1) – –
(451) (362) (254)
11 Associates and joint ventures
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Associates:
Share of after tax profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 52 59 58
Share of after tax losses of other associates (1) (1) (2)
51 58 56
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of joint ventures 1 2 1
52 60 57
Share of turnover of joint ventures 32 31 31
Sales to joint ventures and associates 48 50 51
Summarised income statement information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Total turnover 3,029 2,806 2,893
Total profit/(loss) 296 275 268
12Taxation
2005 2004 2003
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 589 429 673
Less double taxation relief (235) (156) (290)
354 273 383
Overseas taxation 1,665 1,394 1,578
Current taxation 2,019 1,667 1,961
Deferred taxation (103) 90 (310)
1,916 1,757 1,651
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2005
97STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
12Taxation continued
2005 2004 2003
Reconciliation of the taxation rate on Group profits % % %
UKstatutoryrate of taxation 30.0 30.0 30.0
Overseas taxes 3.0 2.5 1.9
Benefit ofspecial tax status (2.3) (3.6) (3.8)
R&D credits (1.4) (1.5) (1.2)
Intercompany stock profit 1.0 0.3 (0.4)
Impact of share based payments (0.3) 1.5 1.3
Tax on profit of associates (0.4) (0.4) (0.5)
Other differences (0.4) 0.5 (0.6)
Prior year items (0.7) 1.1 1.0
Tax rate 28.5 30.4 27.7
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UKtax rate. Profits arising fromcertainoperations in Singapore, Puerto
Rico,Ireland and Belgium are accorded special status and are taxed at reduced rates compared with the normal rates of tax in these territories.
The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge increased earnings per share by2.7p in 2005,3.6p in 2004 and3.9p in 2003.
The Group is required under IFRS to create a deferred tax asset in respect of unrealised intercompany profit arising on stock held by the Group
at the year end by applying the tax rate of the country in which the stock is held (rather than the tax rate of the country where the profit was
originally made and tax paid,which is the practice under UKand USGAAP).The Group tax rate was increased by 1.0% in 2005 (2004 – 0.3%,
2003 – 0.4% decrease) as a result of reductions in work-in-progress and finished goods.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a limited
number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay in negotiations
with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax. Disagreements with, and between, revenue
authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods should be transferred between Group companies in different
tax jurisdictions, can produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual territories. Resolution of such
issues is a continuing fact of life for GSK.
The Group has open issues with the revenue authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada; by far the largest relates to Glaxo heritage products,
in respect of which the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) in the UK have made competing and contradictory
claims. GSK has attempted to settle the US dispute, first through direct discussion with the IRS and subsequently through discussions between
the US and UK authorities under the terms of the double tax convention between the two countries; thesediscussions were terminated in July
2003. On 6th January 2004the IRS issued a Notice of Deficiency for the years 1989-1996 claiming additional taxes of $2.7 billion.
On 2nd April 2004the Group filed a petition in the US Tax Court disputing the IRS claim and seeking a refund of $1 billion in taxes. On 25th
January 2005 the IRS issued a further Notice of Deficiency for the years 1997-2000 claiming additional federal taxes of $1.9 billion,which the
Group contested by filing a petition in the US Tax Court on 12th April 2005,to which the IRS filed its statutory Answer on 7th June 2005. In
September 2005the Court agreed to consolidate the IRS claims for 1997-2000 with those for 1989-1996 into a single trial. The total claims
for these periods amount to $4.6 billion of additional federal taxes and related interest to 31st December 2005 of $3.7 billion, net of federal
tax relief, giving a total of $8.3 billion. The Group’s petitions against the IRS claims include counter-claims for repayment of federal taxes
totalling $1.8 billion, based partly by reference to an Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) between SmithKline Beecham and the IRS covering
the transfer pricing of Tagamet between 1991 and 1993. On 23rd December 2004the IRS filed a motion for summary judgement to exclude
any evidence relating to APAs from the court proceedings. On 31st March 2005the trial judge denied the IRS motion and reserved ruling on
the admissibility of APA evidence until full trial, which is scheduled to commence on 16th October 2006. A decision is expected by mid-2008.
As similar tax issues remain open for 2001 to date, GSK expects to receive further substantial claims by the IRS for these years. GSK continues
to believe that the profits reported by its US subsidiaries for the period 1989 to date, on which it has paid taxes in the USA, are more than
sufficient to reflect the activities of its US operations. However, the Group tax creditor balance at 31st December 2005 of £2.3 billion (2004 –
£1.8 billion) includes a provision for the estimated amountat which the IRS dispute might ultimately be settled. If the IRS were to follow the
same methodology as applied previously in respect of these later years, GSK estimates that the potential unprovided exposure in respect of
this dispute with the IRS for the years 1989-2005 amountedto approximately $11.5billion at 31st December 2005 (2004 – $10.1billion).
GSK is in continuing discussions with HMRC in respect of UK transfer pricing and other matters which are in dispute for the years 1995 to
date. However little progress has been made over the past year and consequently these matters may become subject to litigation in due
course.
GSK Annual Report 2005
98Notes to the financial statements
continued
12Taxation continued
GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues to a satisfactory
conclusion and, on the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to
arise from open assessments. However, there continues to be a wide difference of views between the Group, the IRS, HMRC and other relevant
taxation authorities where open issues exist. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon
the outcome of litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
Except as shown in this Annual Report, no provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by
overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings, on the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at 31st December 2005 is required in such
a way that incremental tax will arise. The aggregate amount of these unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £24 billion.
At 31st December 2005 the Group had recognised a deferred tax asset of £87 million (2004 – £20 million) in respect of income tax losses of
approximately £291 million (2004 – £63 million). Of these losses, £64 million (2004 – £28 million) are due to expire between 2007–2012,
£184 million (2004 – £19 million) are due to expire between 2018–2025 and £43 million (2004 – £16 million) are available indefinitely. At 31st
December 2005 the Group had not recognised any deferred tax asset in respect of income tax losses of approximately £217 million (2004 –
£387 million), of which £28 million (2004 – £358 million) are due to expire between 2007–2012, £79 million (2004 – £nil) are due to expire
between 2018–2025 and £110 million (2004 – £29 million) are available indefinitely. The Group had capital losses at 31st December 2005
estimated to be in excess of £10 billion in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised. Deferred tax assets are not recognised
where there is insufficient evidence that losses will be utilised.
Payable Recoverable Net
Movement on current tax account £m £m £m
At 1st January 2005 (1,753) 155 (1,598)
Exchange adjustments (183) 2 (181)
Charge to profit and loss account (1,591) (428) (2,019)
Cash paid 1,195 512 1,707
Other movements 63 175 238
At 31st December 2005 (2,269) 416 (1,853)
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated Product & other post Legal Manu- Stock option net
Deferred taxation capital Intra-group business retirement Tax & other facturing valuation and award temporary
asset/(liability) allowances Intangibles profit disposals benefits Losses disputes restructuring adjustments schemes differences Total
Deferred tax asset at
1st January 2005 (54) 34 759 – 524 19 149 73 (62) 67 523 2,032
Deferred tax liability at
1st January 2005 (558) (328) – (32) 294 1 10 26 (52) – 70 (569)
At 1st January 2005 (612) (294) 759 (32) 818 20 159 99 (114) 67 593 1,463
IAS 39 adjustments – – – – – – – – – – (5) (5)
At 1st January 2005,
as adjusted (612) (294) 759 (32) 818 20 159 99 (114) 67 588 1,458
Exchange adjustments (9) (6) – – 45 – 19 1 (6) – 55 99
Credit/(charge)to income (10) 16 (50) (3) 29 (24) 62 (20) (5) 59 49 103
Credit/(charge)to equity – – – – 257 – – – – 25 (18) 264
Transfer to/from current tax 10 – – 39 (88) – (79) (7) 3 (13) (135)
Acquisitions 6 (258) – – – 86 – – – 4 (162)
Other movements – 2 – – (1) 5 – – – 12 18
At 31st December 2005 (615) (540) 709 4 1,060 87 161 73 (122) 151 677 1,645
Deferred tax asset at
31st December 2005 (492) (18) 709 (9) 1,035 63 160 73 (72) 151 614 2,214
Deferred tax liability at
31st December 2005 (123) (522) – 13 25 24 1 – (50) – 63 (569)
(615) (540) 709 4 1,060 87 161 73 (122) 151 677 1,645
Deferred taxation provided on stock valuation adjustments, intra-Group profit and other temporary differences shown above arecurrent. All
deferred taxation movements arise from the origination and reversal of temporary differences. Other net temporary differences include accrued
expenses and other provisions.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2005
99STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
13Earnings per share
2005 2004 2003
p p p
Basic earnings per share 82.6 68.1 72.3
Diluted earnings per share 82.0 68.0 72.1
Earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number ofshares in issue
during the period. The numberof shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciledbelow.
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 5,674 5,736 5,806
Dilution for share options 46 12 18
Diluted 5,720 5,748 5,824
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are excluded. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
14 Dividends
2005 First interim Second interim Third interim Fourth interim Total
Total dividend (£m) 568 567 568 792 2,495
Dividend per share (pence) 10 10 10 14 44
Paid/payable 7th July 2005 6th October 2005 5th January 2006 6th April 2006
2004
Total dividend (£m) 575 573 571 684 2,403
Dividend per share (pence) 10 10 10 12 42
Paid 1st July 2004 30th September 2004 6th January 2005 7th April 2005
2003
Total dividend (£m) 524 522 520 808 2,374
Dividend per share (pence) 9 9 9 14 41
Paid 3rd July 2003 2nd October 2003 6th January 2004 15th April 2004
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSKnormally pays a dividend
two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2005 financial statements recognise those dividends
paid in 2005, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2004 and the first and second interim dividends for 2005. The amounts
recognised in each year are as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 2,390 2,476 2,333
GSK Annual Report 2005
100Notes to the financial statements
continued
15Property, plant and equipment Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2004 3,999 7,214 650 11,863
Exchange adjustments (78) (93) (11) (182)
Additions 81 333 473 887
Additions through business combinations 10 28 - 38
Disposals (58) (267) (6) (331)
Reclassifications 113 300 (424) (11)
Transfer to assets held for sale (5) (3) - (8)
Cost at31stDecember 2004 4,062 7,512 682 12,256
Exchange adjustments 136 183 19 338
Additions 54 307 640 1,001
Additions through business combinations 32 45 33 110
Disposals (82) (404) (4) (490)
Reclassifications 83 255 (348) (10)
Transfer to assets held for sale (4) (11) – (15)
Cost at 31st December 2005 4,281 7,887 1,022 13,190
Depreciation at 1st January 2004 (1,111) (4,281) - (5,392)
Exchange adjustments 25 63 - 88
Provision for the year (123) (568) - (691)
Disposals 29 208 - 237
Reclassifications 8 (5) - 3
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 5 - 6
Depreciation at31stDecember 2004 (1,171) (4,578) - (5,749)
Exchange adjustments (38) (119) – (157)
Provision for the year (125) (585) – (710)
Disposals 43 356 – 399
Reclassifications – 1 – 1
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 10 – 11
Depreciation at 31st December 2005 (1,290) (4,915) – (6,205)
Impairment at 1st January 2004 (130) (157) (28) (315)
Exchange adjustments 4 1 – 5
Disposals 6 17 1 24
Impairment losses (24) (11) – (35)
Reversal of impairments 8 3 – 11
Impairment at31stDecember 2004 (136) (147) (27) (310)
Exchange adjustments (9) (2) – (11)
Disposals 10 2 2 14
Impairment losses (13) (18) – (31)
Reversal of impairments – 3 – 3
Transfer to assets held for sale 2 – – 2
Impairment at 31st December 2005 (146) (162) (25) (333)
Total depreciation and impairment at31stDecember 2004 (1,307) (4,725) (27) (6,059)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2005 (1,436) (5,077) (25) (6,538)
Net book value at 1st January 2004 2,758 2,776 622 6,156
Net book value at 31st December 2004 2,755 2,787 655 6,197
Net book value at 31st December 2005 2,845 2,810 997 6,652
GSK Annual Report 2005
101
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
15Property, plant and equipmentcontinued
The net book value at 31st December 2005 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £2,635 million (2004– £2,556
million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £155million (2004– £143million) and properties with leases of less than 50 years £55
million (2004– £56million).
Included in land and buildings at 31st December 2005 are leased assets with a cost of £165 million (2004– £155 million), accumulated
amortisationof £49 million (2004– £46million) and a net book value of £116 million (2004– £109million).
Included in plant, equipment and vehicles at 31st December 2005 are leased assets with a cost of £153 million (2004– £93 million), accumulated
amortisationof £57 million (2004– £25 million) and a net book value of £96 million (at 1st January 2005 – £68 million).
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs to sellor
value in use. The value in use calculations determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant
asset or cash generating unit, applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8%, adjusted where appropriate
for country specific risks.This approximates to applying a pre-tax discount rate to pre-tax cash flows. These losses have been charged through
Cost of sales, £16million, Research and development, £2million, and Selling, general andadministration, £13million.
16Goodwill
2005 2004
£m £m
Cost at 1st January 304 294
Exchange adjustments 10 11
Additions through business combinations 383 –
Disposals (1) –
Assets written off – (1)
Cost at 31st December 696 304
Net book value at 1st January 304 294
Net book value at 31st December 696 304
The additions for the year comprise£357milliononthe acquisitionof ID Biomedical Corporationand£26 million on the acquisition of Corixa
Corporation.SeeNote34for further details.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment at least annually. Value in use calculations are generally utilised to calculate recoverable
amount. Value in use is calculated as the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the cash generating unit in
which the goodwill is contained, applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8%, adjusted where
appropriate for country specific risks. This approximates to applying a pre-tax discount rate to pre-tax cash flows.
GSK Annual Report 2005
102
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGSK Annual Report 2005
103
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Computer Licences,
17 Other intangible assets software patents, etc. Brands Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2004 541 1,059 1,169 2,769
Exchange adjustments (6) (39) (25) (70)
Additions 77 449 – 526
Disposals (9) (1) (1) (11)
Assets written off (5) (19) – (24)
Reclassificationsfrom property, plant and equipment 11 – – 11
Cost at 31stDecember2004 609 1,449 1,143 3,201
Exchange adjustments 13 72 41 126
Additions 62 207 – 269
Additions through business combinations – 816 – 816
Disposals 1 (29) – (28)
Assets written off (10) (43) – (53)
Reclassificationsfrom property, plant and equipment 10 – – 10
Cost at 31st December 2005 685 2,472 1,184 4,341
Amortisation at 1st January 2004 (234) (202) – (436)
Exchange adjustments 3 11 – 14
Provision for the year (93) (75) – (168)
Disposals 9 – – 9
Assets written off 4 1 – 5
Reclassificationsfrom property, plant and equipment (3) – – (3)
Amortisation at 31stDecember 2004 (314) (265) – (579)
Exchange adjustments (6) (21) – (27)
Provision for the year (85) (109) – (194)
Disposals – 5 – 5
Assets written off 7 5 – 12
Reclassificationsfrom property, plant and equipment (1) – – (1)
Amortisation at 31st December 2005 (399) (385) – (784)
Impairment at 1st January 2004 (22) (58) (23) (103)
Exchange adjustments – 1 1 2
Impairment losses (1) (8) – (9)
Disposals – – 1 1
Impairment at 31stDecember 2004 (23) (65) (21) (109)
Exchange adjustments – (2) (2) (4)
Impairment losses (1) (60) (1) (62)
Assets writtenoff 1 – – 1
Impairment at 31st December 2005 (23) (127) (24) (174)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2004 (337) (330) (21) (688)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2005 (422) (512) (24) (958)
Net book value at 1st January 2004 285 799 1,146 2,230
Net book value at 31stDecember 2004 272 1,119 1,122 2,513
Net book value at 31st December 2005 263 1,960 1,160 3,383Notes to the financial statements
continued
17Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment has been charged through Research and development, and Selling, general and administration. At 31st December
2005, the net book value of computer software included £24 million that had been internally generated.
The additions through business combinations in the year of £816 million comprise £701 million from the acquisition of IDBiomedical Corporation
and £115 million from the acquisition of Corixa Corporation (see Note34).Other additions to licences and patents in the year relate to the
purchase ofdevelopment and commercialisation rightsforBotox in certain territoriesacquired from Allergan andvarious other compounds
rights (see Note35).
Brands comprise a portfolio of products acquired with the acquisitions of Sterling Winthrop Inc. in 1994, and The Block Drug Company in
2001. The net book values of the major brands are as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Panadol 340 322
Sensodyne 230 226
Polident 97 96
Corega 87 85
Poligrip 60 59
Solpadeine 56 57
Others 290 277
1,160 1,122
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support.
The brands are in relatively stable and profitable market sectors, and their size, diversification and market shares mean that the risk of market-
related factors causing a shortening of the brands’ lives is considered to be relatively low. The Group is not aware of any material legal,
regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.Each
brand istestedannually for impairment applying a fair value less costs to sell methodology and using five year post-tax cash flow forecasts
with a terminal value calculation and applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capitalof 8%, adjusted where
appropriate for country-specific risks.This approximates to applying a pre-tax discount rate to pre-tax cash flows.
The main assumptions include future sales prices and volumes, product contribution and the future development expenditure required to
maintain the products marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdiction and the product’s life. These assumptions are reviewed as part
of management’s budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in market conditions and product erosion, through generic competition.
18Investments in associates and joint ventures Joint Associated 2005 2004
ventures undertakings Total Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1st January 14 195 209 210
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS39 – (7) (7) –
At 1st January, as adjusted 14 188 202 210
Exchange adjustments 1 25 26 (14)
Additions – 2 2 2
Transfers – – – (1)
Disposals – – – (36)
Retained profit for the year (1) 47 46 48
At 31st December 14 262 276 209
The principal associated undertaking is Quest Diagnostics Inc., a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The
investment had a book value at 31st December 2005 of £244 million (2004 – £173 million) and a market value of £1,093 million (2004 –
£908 million).
At 31st December 2005, the Group owned 18.4% of Quest (2004 – 18.6%). Although the Group holds less than 20% of the ownership
interest and voting control in Quest, the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence through its active participationon the Quest
Board of Directorsand Board sub-committees.
GSK Annual Report 2005
104
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
18Investments in associates and joint ventures continued
Summarised balance sheet information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below: 2005 2004
£m £m
Total assets 3,134 2,233
Total liabilities (1,481) (999)
Net assets 1,653 1,234
Group’s share of associates‘ net assets 262 195
Investments in joint ventures comprise £17 million share of gross assets (2004 – £16 million) and £3 million share of gross liabilities (2004 – £2
million). These principally arise from 50% interests in two joint ventures, Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings, L.P., which is developing specified
chemical compounds, and GlaxoSmithKline Shire BioChem, which primarily co-markets Combivir, Trizivirand Epivirin certain territories.
2005 2004
19Other investments Total Total
£m £m
At 1st January 298 262
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS 39 61 –
At 1st January as adjusted 359 262
Exchange adjustments 33 (11)
Additions 23 103
Fair value movements 14 –
Impairments (35) (25)
Transfers (12) 1
Disposals (20) (32)
At 31st December 362 298
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investments that are recorded at fair value at each
balance sheet date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevantstockexchange quoted
bid price. For other investments, the fair value is estimated by reference to the current market value of similar instruments or by reference to
the discounted cash flows of the underlying net assets.
The Group holds a number of equity investments, frequently in entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. Equity
investments are recorded as non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year, in which case they are recorded as current
assets. Non-current equity investments include listed investments of £268 million (2004 – £270 million) that offer the Group the opportunity
for return through dividend income and fair value gains.
On disposal investments fair value movements are reclassified from reserves to the income statement based on average cost.
The impairment losses recorded in the tables above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within other operating income,
together with amounts recycled from the fair value reserve (Note32) on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially result from
prolonged or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further declines
in fair value are immediately taken to the income statement.
20Other non-current assets
Other non-current assets comprise of sundry receivables which are due in more than one year, including insurance recovery receivables which
have been discounted using risk-free rates of returnand derivative financial instruments.
21 Inventories
2005 2004
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 721 629
Work in progress 552 644
Finished goods 904 920
2,177 2,193
GSK Annual Report 2005
105
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGSK Annual Report 2005
106
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
22 Trade and other receivables
2005 2004
£m £m
Trade receivables 4,411 3,786
Prepaid pension contributions 1 9
Other prepayments and accrued income 285 226
Interest receivable 42 56
Employee loans and advances 59 49
Derivative financial instruments 180 5
Other receivables 370 320
5,348 4,451
Trade receivables include £2 million (2004 – £7 million) due from associates and joint ventures, and are shown after deducting provisions for
bad and doubtful debts of £140 million (2004 – £128 million).
23Cash and cash equivalents
2005 2004
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 686 408
Short-term deposits 1,677 884
Commercial paper 1,846 1,175
4,209 2,467
Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less.
24Assets held for sale
2005 2004
£m £m
Land and buildings 1 2
Plant, equipment and vehicles 1 –
2 2
25Trade and other payables
2005 2004
£m £m
Trade payables 819 707
Wages and salaries 804 639
Social security 102 114
Other payables 240 269
Deferred income 34 27
Customer return and rebate accruals 1,187 982
Other accruals 1,784 1,451
Derivative financial instruments 171 72
Dividends payable 6 6
5,147 4,267
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable to customers, principally in the USA. Provisions are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on
claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale. Because the amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome
and the amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level
of provision is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns
made and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the provisions are based to change, which could
affect the future results of the Group.GSK Annual Report 2005
107
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
26 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2005 2004 2003
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 124 119 163
US pension schemes 41 44 83
Other overseas pensions schemes 83 74 61
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 100 92 90
Other post-employment costs 2 18 24
350 347 421
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 198 192 263
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 25 22 19
Defined contribution schemes 25 23 25
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 100 92 90
Other post-employment costs 2 18 24
350 347 421
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 71 68 84
Selling, general and administration 75 72 101
Research and development 177 166 187
323 306 372
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
Thesearrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by
state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions
paid in respect of each employee, or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable remuneration
and length ofservice. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been assessed in accordance with independent actuarial advice, using
the projected unit method. In certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies.
Liabilities are generally assessed annually in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of
the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Theassets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insured. Assets are invested in different classes in order
to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment.
During 2005, the target asset allocations for the UK schemes were 65% equities and 35% bonds and for the US scheme were 77% equities,
20% bonds and 3% property. The longer term aim is to increase the property element to 10% with a consequent reduction in equities.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised in full through the statement of recognised income and expense.
The UK discount rate is based on the iBoxx over 15 year AAindex and the US discount rate is based on Moody’s Aa index. The expected return
on bonds reflects the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and corporate bonds. An equity risk premium of between 3% and 4% is added
to this for equities. Projected inflation rate and pension increases are long term predictions based on the yield gap between long term index-
linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are calculated using the PA92 standard mortality tables projected to 2006. Plan
obligations are then increased by between 3% and 10%, depending on each individual scheme’s mortality experience, to make allowance for
future improvements in life expectancy. In the USA, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2000 fully generational table, projected using
scale AA, with the white collar adjustment. This builds in a full allowance for future improvements in life expectancy.
During 2005, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK and US pension schemes totalling £366 million. GSK has agreed with
the trustees of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes that the Group would make additional contributions of approximately £370
million per year over a five-year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the deficits on an IAS19 basis,by that point.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline Beecham
employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to join a defined
contribution scheme. In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefitschemes were merged during 2001.
In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the USA.
The following information relates to the Group’s defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes.Notes to the financial statements
continued
GSK Annual Report 2005
108
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
26Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The Group has applied the following assumptions in assessing the liabilities:
UK USA Rest of World
2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.00 4.00 4.00 5.00 5.00 5.50 3.25 3.25 3.00
Discount rate 4.75 5.25 5.25 5.50 5.75 6.25 3.75 4.25 4.75
Expected pension increases 2.75 2.50 2.50 n/a n/a n/a 2.00 2.00 2.00
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 4.50 4.75 5.25 1.75 1.75 1.50
Inflation rate 2.75 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 1.75 1.75 1.50
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of recognised income and expense for the three years ended 31st December
2005 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2005 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 117 63 52 232 46
Past service cost – – – – 1
Expected return on pension scheme assets (285) (126) (28) (439) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 276 104 34 414 53
Settlements and curtailments 16 – – 16 –
124 41 58 223 100
Actuarial losses recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense (490) (109) (93) (692) (102)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2004 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 117 58 42 217 37
Past service cost – – 2 2 –
Expected return on pension scheme assets (272) (118) (20) (410) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 269 104 27 400 55
Settlements and curtailments 5 – – 5 –
119 44 51 214 92
Actuarial gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense 162 26 (26) 162 (54)
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2003 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 109 67 44 220 29
Past service cost 3 (7) (16) (20) (3)
Expected return on pension scheme assets (231) (111) (17) (359) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 246 119 25 390 64
Settlements and curtailments 36 15 – 51 –
163 83 36 282 90
Actuarial (losses)/gainsrecorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense (452) 174 (7) (285) (147)
The total actuarial losses recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense since 1st January 2003 amount to £1,118million.GSK Annual Report 2005
109
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
26Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit schemes, together with aggregated data for other defined benefit
schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2005 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 7.75 3,895 8.50 1,440 7.00 192 5,527
Property – – 7.50 106 6.25 11 117
Bonds 4.25 1,764 5.50 352 3.50 302 2,418
Other assets 4.00 85 4.00 78 3.25 152 315
Fair value of assets 5,744 1,976 657 8,377
Present value of schemeobligations (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126)
(1,310) (174) (265) (1,749)
Included in other non-current assets – – 12 12
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (1,310) (174) (277) (1,761)
(1,310) (174) (265) (1,749)
Actual return on plan assets 940 130 48 1,118
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2004 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.25 3,053 8.50 1,223 7.50 208 4,484
Property – – 6.50 58 6.25 7 65
Bonds 4.50 1,428 5.75 307 3.75 270 2,005
Other assets 4.00 80 2.50 50 2.25 62 192
Fair value of assets 4,561 1,638 547 6,746
Present value of schemeobligations (5,735) (1,750) (761) (8,246)
(1,174) (112) (214) (1,500)
Included in other non-current assets – – 14 14
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (1,174) (112) (228) (1,514)
(1,174) (112) (214) (1,500)
Actual return on plan assets 430 199 28 657
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2003 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.25 3,147 8.50 1,191 7.75 194 4,532
Property – – 6.50 52 6.50 6 58
Bonds 4.50 594 5.75 314 4.00 226 1,134
Other assets 4.00 214 1.00 26 2.00 18 258
Fair value of assets 3,955 1,583 444 5,982
Present value of schemeobligations (5,508) (1,751) (707) (7,966)
(1,553) (168) (263) (1,984)
Included in other non-current assets – – 9 9
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (1,553) (168) (272) (1,993)
(1,553) (168) (263) (1,984)
Actual return on plan assets 610 341 30 981Notes to the financial statements
continued
26Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in defined benefit obligations UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1st January 2003 (4,503) (1,789) (602) (6,894) (834)
Exchange adjustments – 190 (47) 143 79
Service cost (112) (60) (28) (200) (26)
Interest cost (246) (119) (25) (390) (64)
Actuarial losses (788) (57) (40) (885) (147)
Scheme participants’ contributions (13) – (3) (16) (8)
Benefits paid 190 99 38 327 49
Settlements and curtailments (36) (15) – (51) –
Obligations at 31st December 2003 (5,508) (1,751) (707) (7,966) (951)
Exchange adjustments – 126 31 157 52
Service cost (117) (58) (44) (219) (37)
Interest cost (269) (104) (27) (400) (55)
Actuarial losses (34) (60) (49) (143) (54)
Scheme participants’ contributions (12) – (3) (15) (8)
Benefits paid 210 97 38 345 48
Settlements and curtailments (5) – – (5) –
Obligations at 31st December 2004 (5,735) (1,750) (761) (8,246) (1,005)
Exchange adjustments – (217) 14 (203) (138)
Service cost (117) (63) (52) (232) (47)
Interest cost (276) (104) (34) (414) (53)
Actuarial losses (1,137) (112) (128) (1,377) (102)
Scheme participants’ contributions (12) – (3) (15) (9)
Benefits paid 239 96 42 377 46
Settlements and curtailments (16) – – (16) –
Obligations at 31st December 2005 (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126) (1,308)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme,
together with the assumption for future medical inflation of10%, reducing by0.75% per year to 5% in 2013and thereafter. On this basis
the liability for the USscheme has been assessed at £1,133 million (2004 – £895 million; 2003 – £851 million).
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Funded (9,858) (8,029) (7,758)
Unfunded (268) (217) (208)
(10,126) (8,246) (7,966)
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
GSK Annual Report 2005
110
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
26Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in fair value of assets UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1st January 2003 3,224 1,351 348 4,923 –
Exchange adjustments – (170) (17) (187) –
Expected return on assets 231 111 17 359 –
Actuarialgains 336 231 33 600 –
Employer contributions 341 159 98 598 41
Scheme participants’ contributions 13 – 3 16 8
Benefits paid (190) (99) (38) (327) (49)
Assets at 31st December 2003 3,955 1,583 444 5,982 –
Exchange adjustments – (117) 27 (90) –
Expected return on assets 272 118 20 410 –
Actuarialgains 196 86 23 305 –
Employer contributions 336 65 68 469 40
Scheme participants’ contributions 12 – 3 15 8
Benefits paid (210) (97) (38) (345) (48)
Assets at 31st December 2004 4,561 1,638 547 6,746 –
Exchange adjustments – 200 (4) 196 –
Expected return on assets 285 126 28 439 –
Actuarial gains 647 3 35 685 –
Employer contributions 478 105 90 673 37
Scheme participants’ contributions 12 – 3 15 9
Benefits paid (239) (96) (42) (377) (46)
Assets at 31st December 2005 5,744 1,976 657 8,377 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £515 million at 31st December 2005
(2004 – £404 million, 2003 – £327 million). Information on scheme assets under US GAAP is given in Note 38.
Employercontributions for 2006 are estimated to be approximately £700 million in respect of deferred benefit pension schemes and £50 million
in respect of post-retirement benefits.
The transition date for conversion to IFRSfor GSK was 1st January 2003 and therefore the following historical data has been presented from
that date. This will be built up to a rolling five year record over the next two years.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History of actuarial gains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2005
Actuarial gains of scheme assets (£m) 647 3 35 685
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2005 11% – 5% 8%
Actuarial losses of scheme liabilities (£m) (1,137) (112) (128) (1,377) (102)
Percentage of scheme obligationsat 31st December 2005 16% 5% 14% 14% 8%
Fair value of assets 5,744 1,976 657 8,377 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126) (1,308)
Deficits in the schemes (1,310) (174) (265) (1,749) (1,308)
GSK Annual Report 2005
111
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
26 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History ofactuarialgains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2004
Actuarialgainsof scheme assets (£m) 196 86 23 305
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2004 4% 5% 4% 5%
Actuarial(losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (34) (60) (49) (143) (54)
Percentage ofof schemeobligationsat 31st December 2004 1% 3% 6% 2% 5%
Fair value of assets 4,561 1,638 547 6,746 –
Present value of schemeobligations (5,735) (1,750) (761) (8,246) (1,005)
Deficits in the schemes (1,174) (112) (214) (1,500) (1,005)
2003
Actuarialgains/(losses) of scheme assets (£m) 336 231 33 600
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2003 8% 15% 7% 10%
Actuarial(losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (788) (57) (40) (885) (147)
Percentage ofschemeobligationsat 31st December 2003 14% 3% 6% 11% 15%
Fair value of assets 3,955 1,583 444 5,982 –
Present value of schemeobligations (5,508) (1,751) (707) (7,966) (951)
Deficits in the schemes (1,553) (168) (263) (1,984) (951)
Sensitivity analysis
Changes in the assumptions used may have a material impact on the annual defined benefit pensionandpost-retirement costs or the benefit
obligations.
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 6
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in pension obligation 400
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 40
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 19
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 4
Increase in pension obligation 270
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 50
A 0.25% decrease in expected rates of returns on assets would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 20
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirementbenefitscost 10
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 90
GSK Annual Report 2005
112
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
27Other provisions
Legal
Manufacturing Merger and other Other
restructuring integration disputes provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2005 46 224 1,074 187 1,531
Exchange adjustments 2 6 88 8 104
Additions through business combinations – – – 37 37
Charge for the year – 16 380 102 498
Unwinding of discount – – 18 6 24
Applied (10) (42) (297) (100) (449)
Reversed unused (12) (8) (76) (16) (112)
Reclassifications and other movements – (4) (22) 29 3
At 31st December 2005 26 192 1,165 253 1,636
To be settled within one year 10 77 657 151 895
To be settled after one year 16 115 508 102 741
At 31st December 2005 26 192 1,165 253 1,636
The Group has recognised costs in previous years in respect of plans for manufacturingandother restructuring initiated in 1998, 1999 and in
2001 following the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham and the acquisition of Block Drug. These plans are largely completed.
Costs recognised as a provision, principally in respect of identified severances at sites where it has been announced that manufacturing activities
will ceaseand site closure and cleaning costsare expected to be incurred mainlywithin the next three years.Costs of asset write-downs have
been recognised as impairments of property, plant and equipment.
The Group has recognised costs in previous years in respect of plans for the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
businesses. Implementation of the integration following the merger is substantially complete.Costs recognised as a provision in respect of
identified severances are expected to be incurred in 2006and in respect of the programme to encourage staff to convert Glaxo Wellcome or
SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share options when employees exercise these options up to 2010.The discount on
this latter provision increased by £4 million in 2005 (2004 – £4 million), and was calculated using risk-free rates of return.
GlaxoSmithKline is involved in a number of legal and other disputes, including notification of possible claims. Provisions for legal and other
disputes include amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability, contract terminations, self-insurance, environmental clean-up and property
rental. The company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have established provisions after taking into account insurance and other agreements
and having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting requirements. These provisions
were discounted by £71million in 2005 (2004 – £11 million) using risk-free rates of return. The effect of the change in the discount rate in
2005 is to increase the discount at 31st December by £20million. A number of products have a history of claims made and settlements which
makes it possible to use an IBNR (incurred but not reported) actuarial technique to determine a reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure
for unasserted claims in relation to those products. Apart from the IBNR provision, no provisions have been made for unasserted claims. The
ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings,
investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters, including those provided using the IBNR actuarial technique, may be
the subject of negotiation and litigation over several years. The largest individual amounts provided are expected to be settled within three years.
At 31st December 2005, it is expected that £115 million (2004 – £236 million) of the provision made for legal and other disputes will be
reimbursed. This amount is included within non-current assets.
For a discussion of legal issues, refer to Note41‘Legal proceedings’.
28Other non-current liabilities
2005 2004
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 58 66
Derivative financial instruments 26 –
Other payables 383 339
.
467 405
GSK Annual Report 2005
113
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
29Contingent liabilities
At 31st December 2005 contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal course of business,
amounted to £342million (2004 – £207 million). At 31st December 2005, £96 million (2004 – £134million) financial assets were pledged as
collateral for contingent liabilities. For a discussion of tax issues, refer to Note12, ‘Taxation’ and of legal issues, refer to Note41, ‘Legal
proceedings’.
30Net debt
2005 2004
£m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 1,025 1,512
Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 2,467
5,234 3,979
Short-term borrowings:
7.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2005 – (52)
8.75%£Eurobond 2005 – (500)
6.125% US$ Notes 2006 (291) –
Commercial paper (576) (830)
Bank loans and overdrafts (249) (163)
Other loans (46) (2)
Obligations under finance leases (38) (35)
(1,200) (1,582)
Long-term borrowings:
6.125% US$ Notes 2006 – (260)
2.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2007 (283) (260)
3.375%€ European Medium Term Note 2008 (689) (705)
4.875%£European Medium Term Note 2008 (502) (498)
3.25%€ European Medium Term Note 2009 (342) (348)
3.00%€ European Medium Term Note 2012 (510) –
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 (825) (772)
4.00%€ European Medium Term Note 2025 (503) –
5.25%£European Medium Term Note 2033 (976) (975)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 (288) (258)
Loan stock (11) (12)
Bank loans (3) (4)
Other loans and private financing (256) (231)
Obligations under finance leases (83) (58)
(5,271) (4,381)
Net debt (1,237) (1,984)
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At31st December 2005, theyincludedredeemableshares,whichwerefully
collateralised with highly rated bonds, of€ 1 billion(£685 million).The £1 billion redeemable preference shares held at 31st December 2004
were redeemed during the year.The effective interest rate on liquid investments at 31st December 2005 wasapproximately 2.8%.
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31st December 2005 wasapproximately 4.0%.
GSK Annual Report 2005
114
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
30Net debt continued
Short-term borrowings
Commercial paper comprises a US$10 billion programme, of which $991million (£576million) was in issue at 31st December 2005 (2004 –
$1,593 million (£830 million)), backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of $900million (£523million) (2004 – $900 million
(£469 million)) renewable annually, and liquid investments, cash and cash equivalentsas shown in the table above.
The weighted average interest rate on commercial paper borrowings at 31st December 2005 was4.4% (2004 – 2.4%).
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31st December 2005 was4.0% (2004 – 3.0%).
Long-term borrowings
In 2005, two bonds were issued under the European Medium Term Note programme: a € 750 million, 7 year, 3% coupon bondand a € 750
million, 20 year, 4% coupon bond.
Loans due after one yearare repayable over various periods as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Between one and two years 317 289
Between two and three years 1,224 279
Between three and four years 354 1,210
Between four and five years 9 352
After five years 3,367 2,251
5,271 4,381
The loans repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between3.0%and5.4%. The repayment dates range from2012to2034.
The average effective interest rate ofall Notesat31st December 2005 wasapproximately 4.5%.
Secured loans
Loans amounting to £20million (2004 – £11 million) are secured by charges on non-current and current assets.
2005 2004
Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 41 36
Rental payments due between one and two years 33 28
Rental payments due between two and three years 23 17
Rental payments due between three and four years 13 5
Rental payments due between four and five years 9 3
Rental payments due after five years 15 7
Total future rental payments 134 96
Future finance charges (13) (3)
Total finance lease obligations 121 93
GSK Annual Report 2005
115
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
31Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2003 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2004 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2005 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2003 6,024,266,345 1,506 224
Issued under share options schemes 6,041,283 1 40
Purchased and cancelled (80,844,000) (20) –
At 31st December 2003 5,949,463,628 1,487 264
Issued under share option schemes 6,300,203 2 40
Purchased and cancelled (18,075,000) (5) –
At 31st December 2004 5,937,688,831 1,484 304
Issued under share option schemes 25,162,425 7 245
At 31st December 2005 5,962,851,256 1,491 549
31st December 31st December 31st December
2005 2004 2003
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options(Note 37) 221,293 276,954 259,990
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 3,815,856 3,785,358 3,790,546
At 31st December 2005, of the issued share capital,167,436,200shares were held in the ESOP Trust,142,779,678shares were held as Treasury
shares and5,652,635,378shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid.
Atotal of £6.5billion has been spent by the company since 2001 on buying its own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares,
of which£1billion was spent in 2005. The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to which repurchased shares will be
held as Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other
factors. No shares were purchased in the period 1st January 2006 to 8th February 2006.In the period 9th February 2006 to 24th February
2006 a further2.7million shares have been purchased at a cost of £40million.All purchases were through the publicly announced buy-back
programme.
The table below sets out the monthly purchases under the share buy-back programme:
Average share price excluding
Number of shares commission and stamp duty
Month 000 £
January 2005 Nil –
February 2005 6,300 12.56
March 2005 10,090 12.44
April 2005 Nil –
May 2005 6,895 13.45
June 2005 6,670 13.53
July 2005 Nil –
August 2005 8,720 13.29
September 2005 9,510 13.77
October 2005 2,250 14.73
November 2005 5,875 14.73
December 2005 16,522 14.52
Total 72,832 13.65
All shares purchasedin 2005 are held as Treasury shares. For details of substantial shareholdings refer to ‘Substantial shareholdings’ on page
183.
GSK Annual Report 2005
116
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
32Movementsin equity
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Minority Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2003 1,506 224 3,065 (926) 3,869 743 4,612
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 3,919 – 3,919 34 3,953
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (96) (96)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,333) – (2,333) – (2,333)
Ordinary shares issued 1 40 – – 41 – 41
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled (20) – (980) 20 (980) – (980)
Ordinary sharestransferredby ESOP Trusts – – – 26 26 – 26
Write-downof shares held by ESOPTrusts – – (87) 87 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 375 – 375 – 375
At31st December 2003 1,487 264 3,959 (793) 4,917 681 5,598
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 3,906 – 3,906 93 3,999
Changes in minority shareholdings – – – – – (489) (489)
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (72) (72)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,476) – (2,476) – (2,476)
Ordinary shares issued 2 40 – – 42 – 42
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled (5) – (201) 5 (201) – (201)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (799) – (799) – (799)
Ordinary sharestransferredby ESOPTrusts – – – 23 23 – 23
Write-downof shares held by ESOPTrusts – – (180) 180 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 333 (21) 312 – 312
At 31st December 2004 1,484 304 4,542 (606) 5,724 213 5,937
Implementation of accounting for financial
instruments under IAS 39 – – (94) 78 (16) 4 (12)
At 1st January 2005, as adjusted 1,484 304 4,448 (528) 5,708 217 5,925
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 4,426 (3) 4,423 153 4,576
Changes in minority shareholdings – – (15) – (15) (25) (40)
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (86) (86)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,390) – (2,390) – (2,390)
Ordinary shares issued 7 245 – – 252 – 252
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (1,000) – (1,000) – (1,000)
Ordinary sharestransferredby ESOPTrusts – – – 68 68 – 68
Write-downof shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (155) 155 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 240 – 240 – 240
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 25 – 25 – 25
At 31st December 2005 1,491 549 5,579 (308) 7,311 259 7,570
Retained earnings and other reservesamounted to £5,271million at 31st December 2005 (2004 – £3,936million, 2003 – £3,166million) of
which £8,067million (2004 – £10,243million, 2003 – £10,785million) relates to the company and £180million (2004 – £108million, 2003
– £93million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings.The cumulative translation exchange in equityat 31st December 2005
since1st January 2003 is £217million (2004 – £5million, 2003 – £46million).2005 share based incentive plans of £240 million, includes £4
million relating to an associate undertaking.
GSK Annual Report 2005
117
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
32Movementsin equity continued
Other reserves is analysed as follows: Cash flow
ESOP Trust Fair value hedge Other
shares reserve reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2003 (2,831) – – 1,905 (926)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled – – – 20 20
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 26 – – – 26
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 87 – – – 87
At31stDecember 2003 (2,718) – – 1,925 (793)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled – – – 5 5
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 23 – – – 23
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 180 – – – 180
Share-basedincentive plans (21) – – – (21)
At 31st December 2004 (2,536) – – 1,930 (606)
Implementation of accounting for financial instrumentsunder IAS39 – 76 2 – 78
At 1st January 2005, as adjusted (2,536) 76 2 1,930 (528)
Recognised income and expense for the year – – (3) – (3)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 68 – – – 68
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 155 – – – 155
At 31st December 2005 (2,313) 76 (1) 1,930 (308)
Other reserves include the merger reserve created on the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham amounting to £1,561 million
at 31st December 2005 (2004 – £1,561 million; 2003 – £1,561 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as
a result of the share buy-back programme amounting to £81million at 31st December 2005 (2004 – £81 million, 2003 – £76 million).
33Related party transactions
GlaxoSmithKline held an18.4%interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc. at 31st December 2005 (2004 – 18.6%). The Group and Quest Diagnostics
are parties to a long-term contractual relationship under which Quest Diagnostics is the primary provider of clinical laboratory testing to support
the Group’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide. During 2005, Quest Diagnostics provided services of £39million (2004 – £35 million)
to the Group. At 31st December 2005 the balance payable by GlaxoSmithKline to Quest Diagnostics was £5million (2004 – £6million).
In 2005, both the Group and Shionogi &Co. Ltd. entered into transactions with their 50/50 USjoint venture company in support of the
research and development activities conducted by that joint venture company. During 2005, GlaxoSmithKline provided services to the joint
venture of £1million (2004 – £1 million). At 31st December 2005 the balance due to GlaxoSmithKline from the joint venture was £1million
(2004 – £2 million).
Dr Shapiro, a Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc, received fees of $85,000(2004 – $85,000) of which $30,000(2004 – $30,000)
was in the form of ADSs, from a subsidiary of the company, for her membership of the Group’s Scientific Advisory Board. These fees are included
within ‘Annual remuneration’ in the Remuneration Report on pages37to54.
Dr Barzach, a former Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc, received fees of€ 84,244(2004 – € 83,005) from a subsidiary of the
company for healthcare consultancy provided. These are included within ‘Annual remuneration’ in the Remuneration Report.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors, CET and Company Secretary is given in Note 8, ‘Employee Costs’.
GSK Annual Report 2005
118
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
34Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2005
Acquisitions
On 8th December 2005, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of IDBiomedical Corporation, a biotechnology company based
in Canada specialising in the development and manufacture of vaccines, particularly influenza vaccines, for a cash consideration of £874
million. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting.The goodwill arising on the acquisition results from
benefits which cannot be separately quantified and recorded, including immediate access to additional ‘flu vaccines manufacturing capacity,
particularly in the event of a pandemic, a skilled workforce and good relations with the US and Canadian governments regarding the supply
of ‘flu vaccines. IDBiomedical Corporation had a turnover of £30million (2004 – £23 million) and a loss of £83million(2004 – loss £17
million)for the year, of which £1million of turnover and £11 million of loss related to the period since acquisition andareincluded in the
Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 15 686 701
Property, plant and equipment 88 – 88
Other assets 74 23 97
Deferred tax provision – (225) (225)
Other liabilities (136) (8) (144)
41 476 517
Goodwill – 357 357
Total consideration 41 833 874
The total consideration included directly attributable costs of £3 million.
On 12th July 2005, the Group acquired 92% of the issued share capital of Corixa Corporation, a biotechnology company specialising in
developing vaccine adjuvants and immunology based products, for a cash consideration of £150million. This investment increased the
Group’s holding in Corixa to 100%. The Group had a number of business relationships with Corixa prior to the acquisition date, principally
in relation to an adjuvant developed by Corixa and used in some of the Group’s vaccines. This transaction has been accounted for by the
purchase method of accounting. The existing 8% investment in Corixa,with a book value of £12 million, was previously classified as an
available-for-sale investmentand nowforms part of the investment in the subsidiary.The existing 8% of the issued share capital had been
acquired, in previous years, for a cash consideration of £24 million. Corixa Corporation had a turnover of £3million and a loss of £49million
for the year, of which £1million of turnover and £24million of loss related to the period since acquisition andareincluded in theGroup
accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 115 115
Other assets 91 29 120
Other liabilities (95) (4) (99)
(4) 140 136
Goodwill – 26 26
Existing investment (12) – (12)
Total consideration (16) 166 150
The total consideration included directly attributable costs of £1 million.
GSK Annual Report 2005
119
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
34Acquisitions and disposals continued
Euclid SR Partners, LP
During 2005 an additional £2 million was invested in Euclid SRPartners, LP, an associatein which the Group has a 38.7% interest.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited
In April 2005, anIndiansubsidiary of the Grouppurchased 3.16% of the share capital held byminorityshareholders, for a cash consideration
of £16 million.
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited
In May and June 2005, anIndiansubsidiary of the Grouppurchased 1.52% of the share capital held byminorityshareholders, for a cash
consideration of £26 million.
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai)Limited
During 2005, aChinese subsidiary of the Grouppurchased all of the share capital held by minority shareholdersfor a cash consideration of £4
million.
Disposals
Ideapharm SA
In December 2005, the Group disposed ofIdeapharm SA, a subsidiary located in Romania, for cash proceeds of £3 million, which were received
in January 2006. The net assets disposed of inthe yearincluded cash of £2 million.
Aseptic Technologies S.A.
In April 2005, the Group disposed of 16.22% of Aseptic Technologies S.A. to Societe Regionale d’Investissement de Wallonie S.A. for cash
proceeds of £10 million.
GSK GSK GSK
Biologicals Aseptic Pharma- Consumer Euclid ID
(Shanghai) Tech. ceuticals Healthcare Ideapharm SR Corixa Biomedical
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Total
Cash consideration 4 – 26 16 – 2 150 874 1,072
Cash and cash equivalents acquired – – – – – – (7) 9 2
Net cash payment on acquisitions 4 – 26 16 – 2 143 883 1,074
Cash and cash equivalents disposed – – – – 2 – – – 2
Net cash proceeds from disposals – 10 – – – – – – 10
GSK Annual Report 2005
120
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
34 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2004
Acquisitions
Fraxiparine, Fraxodi and Arixtra
In September 2004, the Group acquired Fraxiparine, Fraxodiand Arixtra andrelated assets including a manufacturing facility for a cash
consideration of £297 million.
Book Fair value Net assets
value adjustment acquired
£m £m £m
Intangible assets – 262 262
Tangible fixed assets 56 (24) 32
Inventory 79 – 79
Provisions for onerous contracts – (76) (76)
135 162 297
Euclid SR Partners, LP
During 2004 an additional £2 million was invested in Euclid SR Partners, LP, an associate company in which the Group has a 38.7% interest.
Disposals
Quest Diagnostics Inc.
During 2004, the Group disposed of 3.8 million shares from its investment in Quest Diagnostics Inc. for cash proceeds of £188 million, reducing
the Group’s shareholding at 31st December 2004 to 18.6%.Aprofit of £150million was recognised.
GlaxoSmithKline Vehicle Finance Ltd
During 2004, the Group disposed of its employee vehicle financing subsidiary resulting in a loss of £3 million.
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Chongqing) Ltd
During 2004, the Group disposed of GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Chongqing) Ltd, a Group subsidiary located in China, for £7 million.
A profit on disposal of £2million was realised.
Beeyar Investments (Pty) Ltd
In July 2004, the Group disposed of Beeyar Investments (Pty) Ltd, a subsidiary located in South Africa, for cash proceeds of £1 million, realising
a profit of £1 million.
OptiLead S.r.l.
During the year, part of the Group’s holding in an associated undertaking, OptiLead S.r.l. was sold, resulting in a loss of £1 million.
Fraxiparine GSK GSK
Fraxodi Quest Vehicle Pharmaceuticals Beeyar
and Arixtra Euclid SR Diagnostics Finance (Chongqing) Investments Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 297 2 – – – – 299
Net cash proceeds from disposals – – 188 34 7 1 230
GSK Annual Report 2005
121
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
34 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2003
Acquisitions
Europharm
During 2003, the Group completed the buyout of the minority interests in Europharm Holdings SA, a Group subsidiary located in Romania,
for £3 million, giving rise to goodwill of a further £2 million, which has been capitalised.
Book Fair value Net assets Goodwill Cost of
values adjustments acquired capitalised acquisition
£m £m £m £m £m
Europharm 1 – 1 2 3
Iterfi– Sterilyo
During 2003, a further payment of £9 million was made pursuant to the 2002 acquisition agreement based on the financial performance of
the acquired company. This amount has been included as deferred compensation in 2002.
Disposals
SB Clinical Laboratories
An additional cash refund of £3 million was received during 2003 in respect of indemnified liabilities arising from the SB Clinical Laboratories
disposal which occurred in 1999. This refund follows the successful outcome of a case in the USCourt of Appeal.
Iterfi- SB Clinical
Sterilyo Europharm Laboratories Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 9 3 – 3 15
Net cash proceeds from disposals – – 3 – 3
35Commitments
2005 2004
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 1,833 1,278
Plant, property and equipment 376 213
Pensions 2,200 –
Other commitments 64 84
Interest on loans 3,067 2,648
7,540 4,223
A number of commitments were made in 2005 under licensing and other agreements, principally with Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. The
commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development and which
represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones are achieved.
GSK has agreed with the trustees of the UKand USpension schemes to make additional contributions of approximately £370 million per year
over a five-year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the pension deficits on a IAS19 basis, by that point. The table shows
this commitment, which on the basis of the deficits at 31st December 2005 amounts to total contributions (normal plus additional) of
approximately £550 million per year. No commitments have been made past 31st December 2009.
The Group also has other commitments relating to revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances, principally to Exelixis Inc.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
2005 2004
Commitments under operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 111 83
Rental payments due between one and two years 78 73
Rental payments due between two and three years 60 54
Rental payments due between three and four years 45 42
Rental payments due between four and five years 40 36
Rental payments due after five years 103 119
Total commitments under operating lease 437 407
GSK Annual Report 2005
122
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF36Financial instruments and related disclosures Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that
match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a hedge
Financial risk management
against the relevant net assets.
GlaxoSmithKline plc reports in sterling and pays dividends out of
sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury in GSK is to manage At 31st December 2005,the Group had outstanding contracts to sell
and monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirements or purchase foreign currency having a total gross notional principal
and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives. Treasury amount of £15,974million (2004 – £11,137 million). The majority of
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the contracts are for periods of 12 months or less.
Board and monitored by a treasury management group.
Based on the composition of net debt at 31st December 2005,a 10%
GSK maintains treasury control systems and procedures to monitor appreciation in sterling against major currencies would result in a
foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and other financial risks. reduction in the Group’s net debt of approximately £61million. A
10% weakening in sterling against major currencies would result in
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to
an increase in the Group’s net debt of approximately £75million.
finance its operation and to manage market risks from these
operations. Financial instrumentsincludecash and liquid resources, Interest rate risk management
borrowings and spot foreign exchange contracts. GSK’s policy on interest rate risk management requires that the
amount of net borrowings at fixed rates increases with the ratio of
A number of derivative financial instruments are used to manage the
forecast net interest payable to trading profit.
market risks from Treasury operations. Derivative instruments,
principally comprising forward foreign currency contractsandinterest The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to
rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and liquid redenominate external borrowings into the interest rate coupon
assets into the currencies required for Group purposes and to manage required for Group purposes. The duration of these swaps matches
exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and the duration of the principal instruments. Interest rate derivative
interest rates. instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash flow hedges of the
relevant assets or liabilities.
GSK balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets having regard
tothe cash flow from operating activities and thecurrencies in which The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or
it is earned; the tax cost of intra-Group distributions; the currencies borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward
in which business assets are denominated; and the post-tax cost of contracts to hedge future repayments back into originating currency.
borrowings compared tothepost-tax return on liquid assets.
Sensitivity analysis considers the sensitivity of the Group’s net debt to
Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements of hypothetical changes in market rates and assumes that all other
Group companies are generally invested and managed centrally by variables remain constant. Based on the composition of net debt and
Corporate Treasury. Requirements of Group companies for operating financing arrangements at 31st December 2005, and taking into
finance are met whenever possible from central resources. consideration all fixed rate borrowings in place,a one percentage
point (100 basis points)decreasein average interest rates would result
External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate Treasury,
in an increase in the Group’s annual net interest charge of
comprise a portfolio of long and medium-term instruments and short-
approximately £19million.
term finance.
Market risk of financial assets
GSK does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets in government
trading purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies specifically
bonds, short-term corporate debt instruments with a minimum
prohibit such activity. All transactions in financial instruments are
short-term credit rating of A-1/P-1, money market funds with a
undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business
credit rating of AAA/Aaa and other structured investments(credit
activities, not for speculation.
ratings shown are from Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors’
Foreign exchange risk management Services,respectively). Theseinvestments are classified as available-
In GSK foreign currency transaction exposure arising on normal trade for-sale.
flows, in respect of both external and intra-Group trade, is not
Equity investments are classified as available-for-sale investments and
hedged. GSK’s policy is to minimise the exposure of overseas
the Group manages disposals to meet overall business requirements
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency
as they arise. The Group regularly monitors the value of its equity
income with local currency costs. For this purpose, intra-Group trading
investments and only enters into hedges selectively with the approval
transactions are matched centrally and intra-Group payment terms are
of the Board.
managed to reduce risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are
hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury. Credit risk
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group
A significant proportion of Group borrowings, including the
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition
commercial paper programme, is in US dollars, to benefit from the
to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the
liquidity of US dollar denominated capital markets. Certain of these
three largestwholesalersamounted to approximately80% of the
and other borrowings are swapped into other currencies as required
Group’s US pharmaceutical sales. At 31st December 2005, the Group
for Group purposes. The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in
had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers totalling
the currencies of its principal assetsand cash flows.
£1,051 million (31st December 2004 – £710 million).
GSK Annual Report 2005
123
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued36Financial instruments and related disclosures •Equity investments – investments traded in an active market,
continued determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid
price; other investmentsdeterminedby reference to the current
The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of
market value of similar instruments or by reference to the discounted
these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them is affected by
cash flows of the underlying net assets
financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
•Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying amount
financial results.
• Liquid investments – based on quoted market pricesin the case of
The Group does not believe it is exposed to major concentrations of marketable securities; based on principal amounts in the case of
credit risk onother classes offinancial instruments. The Group is non-marketable securities because of their short repricing periods
exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by •Short-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
counterparties to financial instruments, but does not expect any amount because of the short maturity of these instruments
counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.Where the Group has •Long-term loans –based on quoted market prices in the case of the
significant investments with a single counterparty, collateral is Eurobonds and other fixed rate borrowings; approximates to the
obtained in order to reduce risk. carrying amount in the case offloating rate bank loans and other
loans
The Group applies Board-approved limits to the amount of credit
•Forward exchange contracts – based on market prices and exchange
exposure to any one counterparty and employs strict minimum credit
rates at the balance sheet date
worthiness criteria as to the choice of counterparty.
•Currency swaps – based on market valuations at the balance
Liquidity sheetdate
The Group operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies •Quest equity collar and Theravance put and call options –based
established in the markets in which the Group trades. Due to the on an option pricing model which uses significant assumptions in
nature of the Group’s business with patent protection on many respect of price volatility, dividend yield and interest rates
products in the Group’s portfolio, the Group’s products compete •Interest rate instruments – based on the net present value of
largely on product efficacy rather than on price. Selling margins are discounted cash flows
sufficient toexceednormal operating costs and the Group’s operating •Receivables and payables – approximates to the carrying amount
subsidiaries are substantially cash generative. •Provisions – approximates to the carrying amount
•Lease obligations – approximates to the carrying value.
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the research and
development of new products as well as routine outflows of capital In the year ended 31st December 2005, the total amount of the
expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing debt. The change in fair valuesestimated usingvaluation techniques referred to
Group may, from time to time, have additional demands for finance, above resulted in a credit to the income statement of £1 million.
such as forshare purchases and acquisitions.
Fair value of investments inGSKshares
GSK operates with a high level of interest cover and at low levels of At31st December 2005the ESOP Trusts held GSK ordinary shares
net debt relative to its market capitalisation. In addition to the strong with a carrying valueof £2,313million (2004 – £2,574million) with
positive cash flow from normal trading activities, additional liquidity a fair value of £2,459million (2004 – £2,123million) based on quoted
is readily available via its commercial paper programme and short- market price. The shares represent purchases by the ESOP Trusts to
term investments. The Group also has aEuropeanMedium Term Note satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee
programme of £5 billion, of which £3.5billion was in issue at 31st incentive schemes. Thecarrying value, which is the lower of cost or
December 2005. In March 2004, the Group established a US Shelf expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a
Registration of $5 billion; at 31st December 2005 $2.4billion(£1.4 deduction from other reserves.At 31st December 2005, GSK held
billion)was in issue. Treasury shares at a cost of £1,799 million (2004 – £799 million) which
has been deducted from retained earnings.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The table on page125presents the carrying amounts under IFRS and Committed facilities
the fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31st The Group has committed facilities to back up the commercial paper
December 2005.Comparative information is presented in the table programme of $900million (£523million) (2004 – $900 million (£469
on page129. The carrying amounts at 31st December 2004 are million)) of 364 days duration, renewable annually. At 31st December
recorded on the UK GAAP basis applicable at that date rather than 2005, undrawn committed facilities totalled $900 million (£523
in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39 as described in Note 1. million) (2004 – $900 million (£469 million)).
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included atthe
amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or
liquidationsale. The following methods and assumptions were used
to estimate thefair values:
GSK Annual Report 2005
124
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continuedGSK Annual Report 2005
125
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
36Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
2005 –IFRS disclosures
The Group adopted IAS32 and IAS39 on 1st January 2005. The following disclosures are included as at 31st December 2005 to meet the
requirementsof IAS32.
Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the classification of financial assets and liabilities.Receivables and payables have been included to the extent they
are classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32.Provisions have been included where there is a contractual obligation
to settle in cash. Where appropriate, currency and interest rate swaps have been presented alongside the underlying principal instrument. The
carrying amounts of these instruments have been adjusted for the effect of the currency and interest rate swaps acting as hedges.
Carrying Fair
value value
At 31st December 2005 £m £m
Liquid investments 1,025 1,025
Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 4,209
Current asset financial instruments 5,234 5,234
£notes and bonds (976) (1,097)
US$notes,bondsand private financing (1,929) (1,932)
Notes and bonds swapped into US$ (502) (501)
Currency swaps 54 54
Interest rate swaps (47) (47)
(2,424) (2,426)
Notesswapped into Yen (342) (348)
Currency swaps 10 10
(332) (338)
€ notes (1,702) (1,705)
Interest rate swap 5 5
(1,697) (1,700)
Othershort-termborrowings (909) (909)
Otherlong-term borrowings (111) (111)
Total borrowingsand related swaps (6,449) (6,581)
Equity investments 362 362
Receivables 4,934 4,934
Payables (4,754) (4,754)
Provisions (1,533) (1,533)
Otherderivatives– assets 126 126
Otherderivatives– liabilities (150) (150)
Other financial assets 271 271
Other financial liabilities (391) (391)
Total financial assets and liabilities (2,350) (2,482)
Total financial assets 10,996 10,996
Total financial liabilities (13,346) (13,478)
Reconciliation to net debt
Liquid investments 1,025 1,025
Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 4,209
Total borrowings (6,449) (6,581)
(1,215) (1,347)
Lessnet effect ofinterest rate and currency swaps (22) (22)
Net debt (1,237) (1,369)Notes to the financial statements
continued
GSK Annual Report 2005
126
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
36Financial instruments and related disclosurescontinued
Interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities
The following tables set out the exposure of financial assets andliabilities to either fixed interest rates, floating interest rates orno interest
rates. The maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk in the tables below indicates the contractual repricing
and maturity dates of these instruments.
Cash and Other
At 31st December 2005 Liquid cash financial
Investments investments equivalents Receivables assets Total
Financial assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year – 1,025 4,188 204 94 5,511
Between one and two years – – – 8 – 8
Between two and three years – – – 13 – 13
Between three and four years – – – 12 – 12
Between four and five years – – – – – –
Greater than five years – – – – 117 117
Total interestearning – 1,025 4,188 237 211 5,661
Analysed as:
Fixed rate interest – 292 – 207 117 616
Floating rate interest – 733 4,188 30 94 5,045
Total interest earning – 1,025 4,188 237 211 5,661
Non-interestearning 362 – 21 4,697 255 5,335
Total 362 1,025 4,209 4,934 466 10,996
Effect of Obligations Other
At 31st December 2005 interest rate under finance financial
Debt swaps leases Payables Provisions liabilities Total
Financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year (1,176) (2,348) (103) (148) – (61) (3,836)
Between one and two years (287) 291 (3) – – (23) (22)
Between two and three years (1,190) 1,185 (3) – – – (8)
Between three and four years (343) – (2) – – – (345)
Between four and five years – – (2) – – – (2)
Greater than five years (3,354) 872 (8) – – – (2,490)
Total interest bearing (6,350) – (121) (148) – (84) (6,703)
Analysed as:
Fixed rate interest (5,527) 2,348 (21) – – (24) (3,224)
Floating rate interest (823) (2,348) (100) (148) – (60) (3,479)
Total interest bearing (6,350) – (121) (148) – (84) (6,703)
Non-interest bearing – – – (4,606) (1,533) (504) (6,643)
Total (6,350) – (121) (4,754) (1,533) (588) (13,346)
Maturity analysis of interestearning financialassets
The maturity analysis of interestearning financial assets isequivalent to the maturity analysispresented in the interest rate profile tableabove.
Maturity analysis of interest bearing financialliabilities
Other
At 31st December 2005 Finance financial
Debt leases Payables liabilities Total
Financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year or on demand (1,162) (38) (148) (61) (1,409)
Between one and two years (287) (30) – (23) (340)
Between two and three years (1,203) (21) – – (1,224)
Between three and four years (343) (11) – – (354)
Between four and five years (1) (8) – – (9)
After five years (3,354) (13) – – (3,367)
(6,350) (121) (148) (84) (6,703)GSK Annual Report 2005
127
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
36Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency profiles of financial assets and liabilities
The Group’s currency exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the income statement arise principally in
companies with sterling functional currency. The table below sets out these exposures on financial assets and liabilities held in currencies other
than the functional currencies of Group companies after the effect of currency swaps.
At 31st December 2005
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
Financial assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
Investments 8 108 3 – 11 130
Cash and cash equivalents 1 46 10 2 19 78
Receivables 7 123 89 – 91 310
16 277 102 2 121 518
At 31st December 2005
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
Financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Debt – – (497) – – (497)
Obligations under finance lease – (2) – – – (2)
Payables (7) (18) (13) (1) (30) (69)
Provisions – (56) – – – (56)
(7) (76) (510) (1) (30) (624)
Derivativefinancial instruments
The table below sets out the net principal amount and fair value of derivative contracts held by GSK:
Fair value
Contract or underlying
principal amount Assets Liabilities
2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m
Currency and interest related instruments:
Foreign exchange contracts (4,665) 102 (85)
Cross currency swaps 842 64 –
Interest rate swaps 1,848 5 (47)
Equity related instruments:
Options and warrants 290 21 (49)
Equity collar 299 – (14)
Embedded derivatives 34 3 (2)
Total derivative financial instruments 195 (197)
In 2002, GSKhedged part of the equity value of its holdings in its largest equity investment Quest Diagnostics Inc. through a series of variable
sale forward contracts. The contracts (‘the equity collar’) are structured in five series, each over one million Quest shares, and mature between
2006 and 2008.
The Group has entered into a put option agreement whereby Theravance’s shareholders can sell up to half of their Theravance shares to GSK at
a pre-determined price ($19.375). Given the maximum number of shares subject to the put option, the Group’s obligation is capped at $525
million. At 31st December 2005, this option is recorded as a liability of$81million (2004 –$132million). As at 31st December 2005, the
maximum potential exposure to GSK from fair value movements of these options is therefore approximately$444million. The expiry date is
August 2007.
The Group has entered into a call option agreement whereby it can purchase half of the outstanding Theravance shares in issue at a pre-
determined price ($54.25). At 31st December 2005, this option is recorded as an asset of$28million (2004 –$31million). As at 31st December
2005, the maximum potential exposure to GSK from fair value movements of this option is therefore$28million. The expiry date is July 2007.Notes to the financial statements
continued
36Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table sets out the principal amount andfair values of derivative contracts which qualify for hedge accounting treatment
Contract or underlying Fair value of
principal amount derivative contract
2005 2005
£m £m
Cash flow hedges:
Cross currency swaps 342 10
Fair value hedges:
Foreign exchange contracts 2,151 74
Interest rate swaps 1,848 (42)
Cross currency swaps 500 3
Net investment hedges:
Foreign exchange contracts (6,816) (57)
Cross currency swaps 500 51
Cash flow hedges
The Group has entered into a cross currency swap and designated it a cash flow hedge converting fixed Euro coupons, payable annually, to
fixed Yen payments. The bond matures in 2009. The risk being hedged is the variability of cash flows arising from currency fluctuations.
Fair value hedges
Foreign exchange contracts,designated as fair value hedges,havebeen enteredin order to hedge the foreign currencyrisk associated with
intercompany loans and deposits, commercial paper borrowings andother liabilities.
The Group has designated interest rate swapsand the interest element of cross currency swapsas fair value hedges. The risk being hedged is
the variability ofthe fair value of the bondsarising frominterest rate fluctuations.
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts and the currency element of cross currency swaps have been designated as net investment hedges in respect of
the foreign currency translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its USdollar, Euro and Yen foreign operations.
2004 – UK GAAP disclosures
The Group exercised the IFRS 1 exemption to record financial instruments in the comparative period on the existing UK GAAP basis. The
following disclosures are included, as at 31st December 2004to meet the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard 13 ‘Derivatives and
other financial instruments: disclosures’.
UK GAAP accounting policy for derivative financial instruments
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative instruments
are currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps. The derivative contracts are treated from inception as an
economic hedge of the underlying financial instrument, with matching accounting treatment and cash flows. The derivative contracts havea
high correlation with the specific financial instrument being hedged both at inception and throughout the hedge period. Derivative instruments
no longer designated as hedges are restated at market value and any future changes in value are taken directly to the income statement.
Currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts used to fix the value of the related asset or liability in the contract currency and at
the contract rate are accrued to the income statement over the life of the contract.
Gains and losses on foreign forward exchange contracts designated as hedges of forecast foreign exchange transactions are deferred and
included in the measurement of the related foreign currency transactions in the period they occur. Gains and losses on balance sheet hedges
are accrued and are taken directly to reserves, except that forward premiums/discounts are recognised as interest over the life of the contracts.
Interest differentials under interest swap agreements are recognised in the income statement by adjustment of interest expense over the life
of the agreement.
GSK Annual Report 2005
128
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
36Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the classification of financial assets and liabilities and provides a reconciliation to Group net debt in Note30. Short-
term payables and receivables have been excluded from financial assets and liabilities. Provisions have been included where there is a contractual
obligation to settle in cash. Where appropriate, currency and interest rate swaps have been presented alongside the underlying principal
instrument. The carrying amounts of these instruments have been adjusted for the effect of the currency and interest rate swaps acting as
hedges.
At 31st December 2004 Carrying Fair
value value
Net debt £m £m
Liquid investments 1,512 1,514
Cash and cash equivalents 2,467 2,467
Current asset financial instruments 3,979 3,981
£notes and bonds (1,475) (1,533)
(1,475) (1,533)
US$notes, bonds and private financing (1,828) (1,817)
Notes and bonds swapped into US$ (498) (497)
Currency swaps – 92
Interest rate swaps – (28)
(2,326) (2,250)
Notesswapped into Yen (348) (338)
Currency swaps – 10
(348) (328)
€ notes (705) (717)
Interest rate swap – 12
(705) (705)
Otherlong-term borrowings (79) (79)
Other short-term loans and overdrafts (1,030) (1,030)
Total borrowingsand related swaps (5,963) (5,925)
Total net debt (1,984) (1,944)
Equity investments 298 350
Receivables 597 499
Payables (244) (244)
Provisions (256) (256)
Other foreign exchange derivatives (67) (79)
Non-hedging derivatives – (59)
Total financial assets and liabilities (1,656) (1,733)
Total financial assets 4,874 4,830
Total financial liabilities (6,530) (6,563)
GSK Annual Report 2005
129
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
36Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities, after taking account of currency and interest rate swaps, are analysed below.
Total financial liabilities comprise total borrowings of £5,963 million, other long-term payables of £244 millionand provisions of £256 million
but exclude short-term payables and foreign exchange derivatives of £67 million.
The benchmark rate for determining interest payments for all floating rate financial liabilities in the tables below is LIBOR.
Non-interest
Fixed rate Floating rate bearing
Weighted Weighted
average average Weighted
At 31st December 2004 interest years for average
rate which rate years to Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m maturity £m
US$ 571 5.9 13.8 1,764 411 8.9 2,746
Sterling 1,489 6.4 19.3 842 123 2.1 2,454
Euro – – – 747 44 5.3 791
Yen 348 0.4 4.6 – – – 348
Other currencies – – – 89 35 6.1 124
2,408 5.4 15.9 3,442 613 4.6 6,463
Currency and interest rate risk profile of financial assets
Total financial assets comprise other investments of £298 million, liquid investments of £1,512million, cash and cash equivalents of £2,467
million and long-term receivables of £597 million. The benchmark rate for determining interest receipts for all floating rate assets in the tables
below is LIBID.
Non-interest
Fixed rate Floating rate bearing
Weighted Weighted
average average
At 31st December 2004 Fixed interest years for
rate rate which rate Total
Currency £m % is fixed £m £m £m
US$ 164 6.2 11.9 1,429 757 2,350
Sterling – – – 1,088 89 1,177
Euro – – – 629 57 686
Yen – – – 1 28 29
Other currencies 155 3.0 0.2 353 124 632
319 4.7 6.2 3,500 1,055 4,874
GSK Annual Report 2005
130
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
36Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Currency exposure of net monetary assets/(liabilities)
The Group’s currency exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the income statement arise principally in
companies with sterling functional currency. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in overseas functional currency and borrowings
designated as a hedge against overseas net assets are excluded from the table below.
At 31st December 2004 Functional currency of Group operation
Net monetary assets/(liabilities)
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
held in non-functional currency £m £m £m £m £m £m
Sterling _ 5 (53) – (130) (178)
US$ 234 – 18 (1) (23) 228
Euro (97) (15) – – (46) (158)
Yen 29 – 1 – 1 31
Other 39 (8) (4) – – 27
205 (18) (38) (1) (198) (50)
Finance Total
Debt leases Other 2004
Maturity of financial liabilities £m £m £m £m
Within one year or on demand 1,547 35 120 1,702
Between one and two years 262 27 88 377
Between two and five years 1,817 24 132 1,973
After five years 2,244 7 227 2,478
5,870 93 567 6,530
2004
Gains Losses Net
Hedges £m £m £m
Unrecognised gains and losses at the beginning of the year 171 (60) 111
Unrecognised gains and losses arising in previous years and recognised in the year (27) – (27)
Unrecognised gains and losses arising in the year 8 (77) (69)
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 152 (137) 15
Expected to be recognised within one year – (9) (9)
Expected to be recognised after one year 152 (128) 24
Total unrecognised gains and losses at the end of the year 152 (137) 15
The unrecognised gains and losses above represent the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the currency
swaps, interest rate swaps, equity collar and other foreign exchange derivatives.
Impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 adoption on comparative information
The nature of the main adjustment that would make the comparative information comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39 would be therecognition
at fair valueof financial instrumentsclassified as fair valued through profit and loss and as available-for-sale.
GSK Annual Report 2005
131
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
37Employee share schemes
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at the grant price, and share award schemes, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc at
no cost, subject tothe achievement by the Group of specified performance targets. In 2004, the Group introduced a new share award scheme,
the Restricted Share Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three
year vesting period. The granting of restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options to certain employees as the cost of the
schememore readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee.
The Group operates share option schemes and savings-related share option schemes. Grants under share option schemes are normally exercisable
between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants of restricted shares and share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the
three year vesting/performance period. Grants under savings-related share option schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving.
Options under the share option schemes are normally granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant. In accordance with UK practice, the
majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a price 20%below the marketprice ruling at the date of grant.
Share options awarded tothe Directorsand, with effect from the 2004 grant, the CETare subject to performance criteria as laid out in the
Remuneration Report.
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the stock-based compensation charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model for 2003,2004 and 2005 are as follows:
2005 2004 2003
Risk-free interest rate 4.0% – 4.8% 3.3% – 4.6% 4.2% – 4.9%
Dividend yield 3.0% 3.2% 2.9%
Volatility 21% – 28% 26% – 29% 34%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years 5 years
Savings-related share option schemes 3 years 3 years 3 years
Weighted average share pricefor grants in the year:
Ordinary shares £13.15 £11.25 £12.66
ADSs $47.42 $43.23 $43.39
Volatility was determined based on the three year share price history.The fair value of performance share plan grants take into account market
conditions.Expected lives of options were determined based on weighted average historic exercises of options.
The stock-based compensation charge has been recorded in the income statement as follows:
2005 2004 2003
Cost of sales 17 35 42
Selling, general and administration 150 207 224
Research and development 69 91 109
236 333 375
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 1st January 2003 197,472 £15.20 90,877 $47.34 12,988 £10.29
Options granted 32,750 £12.88 £3.13 23,630 $43.36 $10.92 1,416 £10.20 £4.15
Options exercised (4,728) £7.92 (1,828) $24.33 (112) £10.23
Options cancelled (19,789) £16.48 (6,150) $52.65 (3,709) £12.23
At 31st December 2003 205,705 £14.89 106,529 $46.58 10,583 £9.59
Options granted 9,837 £11.23 £2.49 9,222 $42.99 $8.54 1,580 £9.52 £3.30
Options exercised (5,764) £6.54 (1,845) $25.65 (232) £9.18
Options cancelled (11,997) £15.33 (3,427) $48.28 (1,790) £10.46
At 31st December 2004 197,781 £14.92 110,479 $46.57 10,141 £9.44
Options granted 516 £12.57 £2.76 956 $45.66 $9.90 5,167 £11.45 £3.68
Options exercised (10,483) £9.91 (7,537) $38.83 (5,732) £9.16
Options cancelled (20,888) £17.16 (8,306) $50.26 (810) £11.02
At 31st December 2005 166,926 £14.97 95,592 $46.86 8,766 £10.66
Range of exercise prices £5.61 – £19.77 $22.32 – $61.35 £9.16 – £11.45
The average share price in 2005 was £13.42 and $48.88
GSK Annual Report 2005
132
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
37Employee share schemes continued
In order to encourage employees to convert options, excluding savings-related share options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline
Beecham shares or ADSs, into those over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit
of 10% of the exercise price of the original option provided that the employee did not voluntarily leave the Group for two years from the
date of the merger and did not exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option and two years
from the date of the merger. The cash benefit will also be paid if the options expire unexercised if the market price is below the exercise price
on the date of expiry.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December2005
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number Exercise exercise
Year of grant 000 price date 000 price date 000 price date
1996 2,015 £8.44 01.12.06 592 $28.04 21.11.06 – – –
1997 6,059 £11.71 13.11.07 2,876 $40.23 13.11.07 – – –
1998 14,654 £16.91 23.11.08 5,556 $54.26 23.11.08 – – –
1999 15,739 £18.19 01.12.09 7,096 $60.13 24.11.09 – – –
2000 16,451 £14.88 11.09.10 334 $58.88 16.03.10 – – –
2001 45,323 £18.12 28.11.11 31,169 $51.84 28.11.11 – – –
2002 28,077 £11.94 03.12.12 16,642 $37.54 03.12.12 1,429 £9.16 31.05.06
2003 28,876 £12.66 15.12.13 21,597 $43.42 15.12.13 789 £10.20 31.05.07
2004 9,502 £11.23 02.12.14 9,243 $43.03 02.12.14 1,390 £9.52 31.05.08
2005 230 £13.04 31.10.15 487 $47.33 31.10.15 5,158 £11.45 31.05.09
Total 166,926 £14.97 95,592 $46.86 8,766 £10.66
All of the above options are exercisable, except all options over shares and ADSs granted in 2003, 2004 and 2005 and the savings-related
share options granted in 2003, 2004 and 2005.
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise Number exercise Number exercise
000 price 000 price 000 price
At 31st December 2003 79,693 £14.56 22,364 $49.82 192 £16.48
At 31st December 2004 126,917 £16.49 57,421 $51.75 270 £14.12
At 31st December 2005 128,316 £15.77 64,265 $48.56 1,429 £9.16
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Performance Share Plan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a three year measurement period. The performance conditions consist
of two parts, each of which applies to 50%of the award. For awards granted in 2003, the first part of the condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over the period with the TSR of companies in the UKFTSE 100 Index over the same period. For awards granted
in 2004, and subsequent years,the first part of the condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s TSR over the period with the TSR of 13 pharmaceutical
companies in the comparator group over the same period. The second part of the performance condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s earnings
per share growth to the increase in the UKRetail Prices Index over the three year performance period. Awards granted to Directors and
members of the CET from 15th December 2003 are subject to a single performance condition which compares GlaxoSmithKline’s TSR over
the period with the TSR of companies in the comparator group over the same period.
GSK Annual Report 2005
133
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
37Employee share schemes continued
Shares Weighted ADSs Weighted
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2003 3,164 1,943
Awards granted 1,070 £7.00 832 $20.14
Awards exercised (625) (189)
Awards cancelled (109) (107)
At 31st December 2003 3,500 2,479
Awards granted 1,778 £7.25 1,339 $23.89
Awards exercised (409) (187)
Awards cancelled (520) (276)
At 31st December 2004 4,349 3,355
Awards granted 130 £9.02 88 $32.34
Awards exercised (375) (199)
Awards cancelled (477) (237)
At 31st December 2005 3,627 3,007
Restricted Share Plan
The Group operates a Restricted Share Plan whereby awards are granted,in the form of shares, to certain employees at no cost. The awards
vest after three years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADSs Weighted
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At1st January 2004 – –
Awards granted 4,419 £10.07 3,562 $38.14
At 31st December 2004 4,419 3,562
Awards granted 403 £12.00 511 $44.39
Awards exercised (138) (143)
Awardscancelled (170) (81)
At 31st December 2005 4,514 3,849
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards made
under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts purchase shares
onthe open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions.Costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the
income statement. Shares held by the ESOPTrusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the value of proceeds receivable from employees
on exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanentdiminutionin value this is reflected by a transfer to retained earnings.
Shares held for share award schemes 2005 2004
Number of shares (000) 22,169 22,992
£m £m
Nominal value 6 6
Carrying value 116 213
Market value 326 281
Shares held for share option schemes 2005 2004
Number of shares (000) 145,267 151,535
£m £m
Nominal value 36 38
Carrying value 2,197 2,361
Market value 2,134 1,852
The Trusts also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term
Incentive Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOPTrusts.
GSK Annual Report 2005
134
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF38Reconciliation to USaccounting principles Like IFRS 3, SFAS 142 requires that goodwillmust notbe amortised
and that annual impairment tests of goodwill must be undertaken.
The analyses and reconciliations presented in this Note represent the
The implementation of SFAS142 in 2002, a year earlier than the
financial information prepared on the basis of US Generally Accepted
Group’s transition to IFRS, results in goodwill balances acquired
Accounting Principles (USGAAP) rather than IFRS.
between 1998 and 2003 reflecting one year less of amortisation
Summary of material differences between IFRS and US under USGAAP than under IFRS.
GAAP
Under IFRS,costs to be incurred in integrating and restructuring the
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham
Wellcome, SmithKline Beecham and Block Drug businesses following
The Group has exercised the exemption available under IFRS 1 ‘First-
the acquisitions in 1995, 2000 and 2001 respectively were charged
timeAdoption of IFRS’ not to restate business combinations prior to
to the income statement post acquisition. Similarly, integration and
the date of transition of the Group’s reporting GAAP from UK
restructuring costs arising in respect of the acquisitions ofCorixa and
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UKGAAP) to IFRS.
IDBiomedical in 2005 have been charged to the income statement
Therefore the combination in 2000 of Glaxo Wellcome plc and
under IFRS. Under USGAAP, certain ofthesecostsareconsidered in
SmithKline Beecham plc continues to be accounted for as a merger
the allocation of purchase consideration thereby affecting the
(pooling of interests) in accordance withUKGAAPat that time. Under
goodwill arising on acquisition.
US GAAP, this business combination did not qualify for pooling of
interests accounting and Glaxo Wellcome was deemedto be the In-processresearch &development (IPR&D)
accounting acquirer in a purchase business combination. Under IFRS, IPR&D projects acquired in a business combination are
capitalised and remain on the balance sheet, subject to any
Accordingly the net assets of SmithKline Beecham were recognised
impairment write-downs.Amortisation is charged over the assets’
at fair valueas at the date of acquisition. As a result of the fair value
estimated useful lives from the point whenthe assets became available
exercise, increases in the values of SmithKline Beecham’s inventory,
for use.Under USGAAP, such assets are recognised in the opening
property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments and
balance sheet but are then writtenoff immediately to the income
pension obligations were recognised and fair market values
statement,as the technological feasibility of the IPR&D has not yet
attributed to its internally-generated intangible assets, mainly product
been established and it has no alternative future use. Under IFRS,
rights (inclusive of patents andtrademarks) and in-process research
deferred tax is provided for IPR&D assets acquired in a business
and development, together with appropriate deferred taxation
combination. USGAAP does not provide for deferred tax on these
effects. The difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair
assets, resulting in a reconciling adjustment to deferred tax and
value of the assets and liabilities of SmithKline Beechamisrecorded
goodwill.
as goodwill.
IPR&D acquired in transactions other than business combinations is
Capitalised interest
discussed underIntangible assets below.
Under IFRS, the Group does not capitalise interest. USGAAP requires
interest incurred as part of the cost of constructing a fixed assetto be Intangible assets
capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset. Under IFRS, certain intangible assets related to specific compounds or
products which are purchased from a third party and are developed
Goodwill
for commercial applications are capitalised but not subject to
The Group has exercised the exemption available under IFRS1 not to
amortisation until regulatory approval is obtained. Under USGAAP,
restate business combinations prior to the date of transition of the
payments madein respect ofthese compounds or products which are
Group’s reporting GAAP from UKGAAP to IFRS. Under UKGAAP,
still in development and have not yet received regulatory approval are
goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1998 accounted for under the
charged directly to theincome statement.
purchase method was eliminated against equity, and under IFRS, on
futuredisposal or closure of a business, any goodwill previously taken Under IFRS, intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful
directly to equity under a former GAAP will not be charged against economic life except in the case of certain acquired brands where the
income. Under UKGAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions from 1998 end of the useful economic life of the brand cannot be foreseen.
was capitalised and amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years. Under US GAAP, until the implementation of SFAS142 ‘Goodwill and
On the date of the Group’s transition to IFRS, 1st January 2003, Other Intangible Assets’ in 2002, all intangible assets, including
amortisation ceased in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business brands, were amortised over a finite life. On implementation of SFAS
combinations’. The Group must instead identify and value its reporting 142 in 2002, intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives were
units for the purpose of assessing, at least annually, potential no longer amortised. As a result of the difference in accounting
impairment of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit. As permitted treatment prior to the implementation of SFAS142, the carrying
by the business combinations exemption available under IFRS 1, valuesofindefinite lived brandsare affected byamortisation charged
amortisation arising prior to 2003 was not reversed. before 2002under USGAAP.
Under US GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 30th June
2001 was capitalised and amortised over a period not exceeding 40
years. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS)142,
‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’.
GSK Annual Report 2005
135
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued38Reconciliation to US accounting principles The proceeds from sale of marketable securities under USGAAP were
continued £19,416million in the year ended 31st December 2005. The proceeds
include the roll-over of liquid funds on short-term deposit. The gross
Restructuring costs
gains and losses reflected in the consolidated income statement in
Under IFRS, restructuring costs incurred following acquisitions were
respect of marketable securities were£7million and£nil, respectively.
charged to the profit and loss account post acquisition. For USGAAP
purposes, certain of these costs were recognised as liabilities upon Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
acquisition in the opening balance sheet. The key differencebetween IFRS and USGAAP is the method of
recognition of actuarial gains and losses. GSK has opted underIFRS
Other restructuring costs are recorded as a provision under IFRSwhen
to recognise actuarial gains and lossesin the statement of recognised
a restructuring plan has been announced. Under USGAAP, a provision
income and expense in the year in which they arise. Under USGAAP
may only be recognised when further criteria are met or the liability
actuarial gains and losses are recognised using the 10% corridor
is incurred. Therefore adjustments have been made to eliminate
approach and deferred actuarial gains and losses are amortised.
provisions for restructuring costs that do not meet USGAAP
Therefore the pension liability recognised under IFRS is greater than
requirements.
under USGAAP.
Marketable securities
Stock-based compensation
Marketable securities consist primarily of equity securities and certain
Under IFRS 2 ‘Share-basedPayment’, share options are fair valued at
other liquid investments, principally government bonds and short-
their grant dates and the cost is charged to the income statement
term corporate debt instruments.Under SFAS 115 ‘Accounting for
over the relevant vesting periods. Under USGAAP, the Group applies
CertainInvestments inDebt andEquitySecurities’, these securities
SFAS 123 ‘Accounting forStock-BasedCompensation’ and related
are considered availableforsaleand are carried at fair value, with the
accounting interpretations in accounting for its option plans,which
unrealised gains and losses, net of tax, recorded as a separate
also require options to be fair valued at their grant date and included
component of shareholders’ equity. Under IFRS,theseare accounted
inthe income statementover the vesting period of the options.
for as available-for-sale financial assetsin accordance withIAS39
Differences arise as a result of the application of differing
‘FinancialInstruments :Recognition andMeasurement’.
measurement basesin respect of performance conditions attaching
The accounting treatment for marketable securities under USGAAP to share-based payments and in the treatment of lapsed grants.
and IFRS issimilar. However, differences do arise, principallyas a result
Derivative instruments
of the category of marketable securities as defined by SFAS 115 being
SFAS 133, ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
smaller than the category of available-for-sale financial assets as
Activities’, as amended by SFAS 137 and SFAS 138 and as interpreted
defined by IAS 39. Investments which are not marketable securities
by the Derivatives Implementation Group, was adopted by the Group
under the SFAS115 definition are accounted for at cost less
with effect from 1st January 2001. SFAS 133 establishes accounting
impairments under USGAAP rather than at fair value.
and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
The Group did not adopt IAS39 until 1st January 2005, and, in derivative instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively,
accordance with the exemption available under IFRS1, has presented referred to as derivatives) and for hedging activities. SFAS 133 requires
financial instruments in the comparativeperiods in accordance with that an entity recognise all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in
UKGAAP. Therefore in 2004these securities are stated at the lower the consolidated balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair
of cost and net realisable value. value. Changes in fair value over the period are recorded in current
earnings unless hedge accounting is obtained. SFAS 133 prescribes
Marketable securities are reviewed at leastevery six monthsfor other
requirements for designation and documentation of hedging
than temporary impairment. For equity securities, the factors
relationships and ongoing assessments of effectiveness in order to
considered include:
qualify for hedge accounting.
•the investee’s current financial performance and future prospects
The Group also evaluates contracts for ‘embedded’ derivatives. In
•the general market condition of the geographic or industry area in
accordance with SFAS 133 requirements, if embedded derivatives are
which the investee operates
not clearly and closely related to the host contract, they are accounted
•the duration and extent to which the market value has been below
for separately from the host contract as derivatives.
cost.
The key differences between IFRS under which the Group’s financial
Gross unrealised gains and losses on marketable securities were £36
statements are prepared and USGAAP, and in the Group’s application
million and £4million,respectively,at 31st December 2005 (2004 –
of their respective requirements, are:
£60 million and £3 million,respectively). The fair value of marketable
securities with unrealised losses at 31st December 2005is£62million •certain derivatives which are designated by the Group as hedging
(2004–£21million). All of these marketable securities have been in instruments under IAS 39 are not designated as hedging
a continuous loss position for less than 12 months.Deferred tax instruments under SFAS 133. Accordingly, hedge accounting is not
provided against unrealised gains and losses at 31st December 2005 applied under USGAAP in respect of these arrangements
was £4 million (2004 – £16 million). Gains of £7 million were
reclassified out ofaccumulatedothercomprehensive income into the
income statement on disposals of equity investments during the year.
GSK Annual Report 2005
136
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continuedNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles Other
continued The following adjustments are also included in the reconciliations:
•the definition of derivatives within the scope of SFAS133 excludes •computer software – under IFRS, the Group capitalises costs incurred
instruments for which there is no liquid market. This leads to certain in acquiring and developing computer software for internal use
items not being recognised on the balance sheet, although they are where the software supports a significant business system and the
accounted for as derivatives under IFRS, most notably the call option expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset. For US GAAP,
over Theravance shares the Group applies SOP 98-1, ‘Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use’, which restricts
•IAS 39 has an exemption from the requirement to recognise
the categories of costs which can be capitalised.
embedded foreign currency derivatives where the currency is
commonly used in the economic environment of the host contract. •guarantor obligations – under USGAAP, the Group applies the
SFAS 133 does not grant a similar exemption and so the Group FASB’s Financial Interpretation No. 45 (FIN45), ‘Guarantor’s
identifies and separately accounts for more embedded derivatives Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
under US GAAP than it does under IFRS. Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others’. This requires that
the Group recognise certain guarantees issued, measured at fair
The Group has exercised the exemption available under IFRS1 to
value. Under IFRS, such guarantor obligations are recognised when
present financial instruments in the comparativeperiods in accordance
further additional criteria are met or the liability is incurred.
with UKGAAP. Under UKGAAP, some derivative instruments used for
hedges were not recognised on the balance sheet and the matching •variable interest entities – under the FASB’s Interpretation No. 46
principle was used to match the gain or loss under these hedging Revised (FIN 46R), ‘Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities’, certain
contracts to the foreign currency transaction or profits to which they entities, known as Variable Interest Entities (VIEs), must be
related.Gains and losses related to the fair value adjustments on these consolidated by the ‘primary beneficiary’ of the entity. The primary
derivative instruments are therefore reconciling items. As in 2005,the beneficiary is generally defined as having the majority of the risks
Group did not designate any of its derivatives as qualifying hedge and rewards arising from the VIE. Additionally, for VIEs in which a
instruments under SFAS133. significant, but not majority, variable interest is held, certain
disclosures are required. The Group has completed a review of
The fair value and book value of derivative instruments as at 31st
potential VIEs and, as a consequence, has consolidated Theravance
December 2004 is disclosed in the ‘Classification and fair value of
Inc. from May 2004 (see Note (c) on page142). No other VIEs of
financial assets and liabilities’ table in Note36.
which the Group is the primary beneficiary were identified.
Valuation of derivative instruments
•fixed asset and inventory impairments – reversals of impairments
The fair value of derivative instruments is sensitive to movements in
previously recorded against the carrying value of assets are permitted
the underlying market rates and variables. The Group monitors the
under IFRS in certain circumstances. USGAAP does not permit
fair value of derivative instruments on at least a quarterly basis.
reversals of these impairments.
Derivatives,including interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps,
are valued using standard valuation models, counterparty valuations, •various othersmalladjustments.
or third party valuations. Standard valuation models used by the
Consolidated summary statement of cash flows
Group consider relevant discount rates, the market yield curve on the
The USGAAP cash flow statement reportsthree categories of cash
valuation date, forward currency exchange rates and counterparty
flows: operating activities (including tax and interest); investing
risk. All significant rates and variables are obtained from market
activities (including capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals
sources. All valuations are based on the remaining term to maturity
together with cash flows from available-for-sale current asset
of the instrument.
investments); andfinancing activities (including dividends paid). A
Foreign exchange contracts are valued using forward rates observed summary statement ofcash flows is presented on page140.
from quoted prices in the relevant markets when possible. The Group
Comprehensive income statement
assumes parties to long-term contracts are economically viable but
The requirement of SFAS 130, ‘Reporting comprehensive income’, to
reserves the right to exercise early termination rights if economically
provide a comprehensive income statement is met under IFRS by the
beneficial when such rights exist in the contract.
Statement of recognised income and expense (page88).
Dividends
Under IFRS, GSK plc’s quarterly dividends are recognised only on
payment. Under USGAAP, the dividends are recognised in the
financial statements when they are declared.
GSK Annual Report 2005
137
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles Other recent FASB pronouncements
continued In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 151, ‘Inventory Costs – an
amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4’. SFAS 151 clarifies that
Recent Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs,
pronouncements
and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognised as current-
FSP FIN 46(R)-5
period charges and requires the allocation of fixed production
In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FIN 46 (R)-
overheads to inventory based on the normal capacity of the
5, ‘Implicit Variable Interests under FASB Interpretation No. 46 (R),
production facilities. SFAS 151 is effective for fiscal years beginning
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities’. The FSP requires a reporting
after 15th June 2005.
enterprise to consider whether it holds an implicit variable interest in
theVIEor potential VIE. The determination of whether an implicit In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 153, ‘Exchanges of Non-
variable interest exists involves determining whether an enterprise monetary Assets - an amendment of APB Opinion 29’, which amends
may be indirectly absorbing or receiving the variability of the entity. APB Opinion 29, ‘Accounting for Non-monetary Transactions’ to
The FSP is effective in the first reporting period beginning after 3rd eliminate the exception for non-monetary exchanges of similar
March 2005. The adoption of the FSP by the Group has not had an productive assets and replaces it with a general exception for
impact on its overall results of operations or financial positionunder exchanges of non-monetary assets that do not have commercial
US GAAP. substance. SFAS 153 is effective for non-monetary asset exchanges
occurring in fiscalyearsbeginning after 15th June 2005.
EITF 05-06
In June 2005 the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached consensus In March 2005, the FASB published FASB Staff Position (FSP) FIN47,
on Issue 05-6, ‘Determining the Amortisation Period for Leasehold ‘Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations – an
Improvements Purchased after Lease Inception or Acquired in a interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143’ which clarifies the
Business Combination’. EITF 05-6 requires leasehold improvements application of SFAS143 ‘Accounting for Obligations Associated with
acquired in a business combination to be amortised over the shorter the Retirement of Long-Lived Assets’ in respect of conditional asset
of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes required lease retirement obligations. The FSP is effective in the first period beginning
periods and renewals deemed to be reasonably assured at the date after 15th December 2005.
of acquisition. Additionally, the Issue requires improvements placed in
In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP 115-1 and FSP 124-1, ‘The
service significantly after and not contemplated at or near the
Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application
beginning of the lease term to be amortised over the shorter of the
to Certain Investments’ which nullify certain requirements of EITF 03-
useful life of the assets or a term that includes required lease periods
1 and supersede EITF D-44. The FSPs provide guidance for identifying
and renewals deemed to be reasonably assured at the date the
impaired investments and new disclosure requirements for
leasehold improvements are purchased.
investments that are deemed to be temporarily impaired. The FSPs are
EITF 05-6 is effective immediately. The adoption of EITF 05-6 has not effective for fiscal years beginning after 15th December 2005.
had amaterial impact on the Group’s consolidated financial position,
In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FIN 45-3 to provide
results of operations or cash flowsunder US GAAP.
clarification with respect to the application of FIN 45, ‘Guarantor’s
SFAS 123Rand related FSPs Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 (revised 2004), ‘Share- Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others’. FSP FIN 45-3 includes
Based Payment’. SFAS 123R replaces SFAS 123 and supersedes APB within its scope and provides guidance concerning the application of
25. SFAS 123R requires that the cost resulting from all share-based FIN 45 to a guarantee granted to a business (or to its owners) that the
payment transactions be recognised in the financial statements at fair entity’s revenue (or the revenue of a specified portion of the entity)
value and that excess tax benefits be reported as a financing cash will meet a minimum amount (referred to as a minimum revenue
inflow rather than as a reduction of taxes paid. SFAS 123R is effective guarantee).
for the Group from 1st January 2006. From the effective date,
The Group does not expect the adoption of the above
compensation cost is recognised based on the requirements of SFAS
pronouncements to have a material impact on its consolidated
123R for all new share-based awards and based on the requirements
financial position, results of operations or cash flows under US GAAP.
of SFAS 123 for all awards granted prior to the effective date of SFAS
123R that remain unvested on the effective date. In May 2005, SFAS 154, ‘Accounting Changes and Error Corrections
– replacement of APB Opinion 20 and SFAS 3,’ was issued. SFAS 154
During 2005 the FASB issued FSP 123R-1,FSP 123R-2 and FSP123R-
changes the accounting for and reporting of a change in accounting
3. These FSPs detail with various aspects of the implementation of
principle by requiring retrospective application to prior periods’
SFAS 123R.GSK is in the process of assessing the impact of the
financial statements of changes in accounting principle unless
adoption of SFAS 123R on the Group’s consolidated financial position,
impracticable. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes made in
results of operations and cash flows under US GAAP.
fiscal years beginning after 15th December 2005. The Group cannot
determine the impact of SFAS 154 as it depends in part upon future
changes to US accounting principles.
GSK Annual Report 2005
138
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders’ funds which would be required if US GAAP had been applied
instead of IFRS.
2005 2004 2003
Profit Notes £m £m £m
Profit after taxation for the year under IFRS 4,816 4,022 4,308
Profit attributable to minority interests (127) (114) (107)
Profit attributable to shareholders under IFRS 4,689 3,908 4,201
USGAAP adjustments:
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets b (1,584) (1,441) (2,303)
Acquisition and disposal of product rights b (72) (210) (105)
Write-off of in-process R&D acquired in business combinations b (26) – –
Capitalised interest (1) (17) 23
Disposal of interestsin associates and subsidiaries – (97) –
Investments (2) (30) (31)
Pensions and post-retirement benefits f (127) (126) (130)
Stock-based compensation 6 13 (2)
Derivative instruments and hedging (30) 33 (41)
Fair value of put option granted to minority shareholders c – 17 –
Restructuring 1 (12) 98
Tax benefits on exercise of stock options d (47) (10) (13)
Deferred taxation d 585 757 740
Other (56) (53) (17)
Net incomeunder USGAAP 3,336 2,732 2,420
2005 2004 2003
Earnings per share under USGAAP p p p
Basic net income per share 58.8 47.6 41.7
Diluted net income per share 58.3 47.5 41.6
2005 2004 2003
Earnings per ADS under USGAAP $ $ $
Basic net income per ADS 2.14 1.74 1.37
Diluted net income per ADS 2.12 1.74 1.36
2005 2004
Equity shareholders’ funds Notes £m £m
Total equity under IFRS 7,570 5,937
Minority interests (259) (213)
Shareholders’equityunder IFRS 7,311 5,724
USGAAPadjustments:
Goodwill a 17,976 17,817
Product rights b 12,065 13,756
Pension intangible asset f 86 102
Property, plant and equipment 33 43
Capitalised interest 179 180
Marketable securities – 49
Other investments 576 532
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits f 1,163 1,128
Restructuring costs 65 80
Derivative instruments and hedging (33) (15)
Fair value of put option granted to minority shareholders c – 17
Dividends (568) (571)
Deferred taxation e (4,531) (4,840)
Other (40) 40
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 34,282 34,042
GSK Annual Report 2005
139
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2005 2004 2003
Consolidated statement of cash flows under USGAAP £m £m £m
Net cash provided by operating activities 5,751 4,618 4,895
Net cash used in investing activities (1,843) (988) (904)
Net cash used in financing activities (2,409) (3,038) (3,051)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,499 592 940
Exchange rate movements 237 (93) (36)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,485 1,986 1,082
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 4,221 2,485 1,986
Notes to the Profit and Equity shareholders’ funds reconciliations
(a) Goodwill
The following tables set out the IFRS to USGAAP adjustments required to the IFRS balance sheet in respect of goodwill including goodwill in
respect of associated undertakings:
2005 2004
Balance sheet £m £m
Goodwill under IFRS 696 304
Goodwill under USGAAP 18,672 18,121
IFRS to USGAAP adjustments 17,976 17,817
Of the £18,672 million (2004 – £18,121 million)USGAAP goodwill balance at 31st December 2005, £15,875 million (2004 – £15,875 million)
is in respect of the goodwill arising on the acquisition of SmithKline Beecham by Glaxo Wellcome in 2000.
The following tables present the changes in goodwill allocated to the Group’s reportable segments:
Consumer
Pharmaceuticals Healthcare Total
£m £m £m
At1st January 2004 15,668 2,461 18,129
Asset written off (1) – (1)
Exchange adjustments 5 (12) (7)
At 31st December 2004 15,672 2,449 18,121
Additions 528 – 528
Disposals (1) – (1)
Exchange adjustments 5 19 24
At 31st December 2005 16,204 2,468 18,672
(b) Intangible assets
The following tables set out the IFRSto USGAAP adjustments required to the IFRS income statement and balance sheet in respect of
intangible assets:
2005 2004 2003
Income statement £m £m £m
Amortisation charge under IFRS 109 75 58
Amortisation charge under USGAAP 1,674 1,516 1,641
IFRSto USGAAP adjustment for amortisation 1,565 1,441 1,583
Impairment charge under IFRS 99 26 46
Impairment charge under USGAAP 118 26 766
IFRS to USGAAP adjustment for impairment 19 – 720
In addition to the above adjustments for amortisation and impairments, further IFRS to USGAAP adjustments arose during the year of £98
million (2004 – £173 million; 2003 – £105 million) in respect of the acquisition and disposal of in-process R&D, licences, patents etc. which
are capitalised under IFRS but charged directly to research and development expense under USGAAP, and £nil million (2004 – £37 million;
2003 – £nil) in respect of disposals of product rights which have a higher carrying value under USGAAP than under IFRS.
GSK Annual Report 2005
140
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2005 2004
Balance sheet £m £m
Product rights intangible assets under IFRS 3,120 2,241
Product rights intangible assets under USGAAP 15,185 15,997
Net IFRSto USGAAP product rights adjustments 12,065 13,756
Product rights intangible assets under USGAAP are analysed as follows:
Acquired Licenses, Brands subject Indefinite
products patents, etc. to amortisation lived brands Total
2005 £m £m £m £m £m
Cost 20,857 512 1,096 4,722 27,187
Accumulated amortisation
and impairment (11,115) (72) (185) (630) (12,002)
Carrying value 9,742 440 911 4,092 15,185
2004
Cost 20,061 398 1,096 4,652 26,207
Accumulated amortisation
and impairment (9,472) (27) (134) (577) (10,210)
Carrying value 10,589 371 962 4,075 15,997
The acquired products are pharmaceutical products, principally arising from the acquisition of SmithKline Beecham plc, with book values net
of accumulated amortisation and impairment as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Avandia 3,841 4,190
Seroxat/Paxil 1,410 1,879
Augmentin 1,142 1,318
Fluviral 683 –
Havrix 363 387
Infanrix 294 314
Coreg 240 320
Twinrix 235 250
Engerix-B 224 239
Hycamtin 212 248
Others 827 1,444
Acquired products intangible assets under USGAAP 9,471 10,589
The indefinite lived brands relate to a large number of Consumer Healthcare products, principally arising from the acquisitions ofSmithKline
Beecham plc (including products previously acquired by SmithKline Beecham from Sterling Winthrop Inc.) and the Block Drug Company,
with book values as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Panadol 730 692
Aquafresh 347 347
Lucozade 324 324
Horlicks 319 319
Ribena 309 309
Nicorette 292 292
Odol 228 228
Tums 226 226
Sensodyne 225 221
Nicoderm 224 224
Others 868 893
Indefinite lived brands intangible assets under US GAAP 4,092 4,075
GSK Annual Report 2005
141
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support.
The brands are in relatively stable and profitable market sectors, and their size, diversification and market shares mean that the risk of market-
related factors causing a shortening of the brands’ lives is considered to be relatively low. The Group is not aware of any material legal,
regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised.Each
brand is tested annually for impairment applying a fair value less costs to sell methodology and using five year post-tax cash flow forecasts
with a terminal value calculation and applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital of 8%.This approximates
to applying a pre-tax discount rate to pre-tax cash flows.
The carrying values of certain intangibles subject to amortisation were reviewed and an impairment of £68 million (2004 – £26 million) has
been recorded. Of this, £46 million (2004 – £nil) relates to pharmaceutical products and £22 million (2004 – £26 million) to Consumer
Healthcare products. An impairment charge in respect of Consumer Healthcare intangible assets not subject to amortisation of £50 million
was recognised during 2005 (2004 – £nil).
As discussed in Note41‘Legal proceedings’, a number of distributors of generic drugs have filed applications to market generic versions of a
number of the Group’s products prior to the expiration of the Group’s patents. If generic versions of products are launched in future periods
at earlier dates than the Group currently expects, impairments of the carrying value of the products may arise.
The estimated future amortisation expense for the next five years for intangible assets subject to amortisation as of 31st December 2005
is as follows:
Year £m
2006 1,447
2007 1,430
2008 1,430
2009 774
2010 756
Total 5,837
In-process R&D of £26 million (2004 – £nil; 2003 – £nil) arising on the acquisitions of IDBiomedical and Corixa Corporation has been written-
off. This has been valued on the same basis as the other intangible assets acquired and relates to various development projects in the pre-
approval stage where the technological feasibility of the projects had not been established at the point of acquisition.
(c) Theravance
In May 2004, the Group formed a strategic alliance with Theravance Inc. to develop and commercialise novel medicines across a variety of
important therapeutic areas. Under the terms of the alliance, Theravance received $129 million, a significant part of which related to the
Group’s purchase of Theravance shares. The Group has a call option in 2007 to further increase its ownership to over 50% at a significant
premium to the price paid in the 2004 transaction. Theravance’s shareholders have a put option at a lower exercise price to cause GlaxoSmithKline
to acquire up to half of their outstanding stock in 2007. Given the maximum number of shares subject to the put option, the Group’s obligation
is capped at $525 million. The Group has an exclusive option to license potential new medicines from all of Theravance’s programmes until
August 2007. Upon exercising its option over a Theravance programme, the Group will be responsible for the relevant development,
manufacturing and commercialisation activities. Depending on the success of such programmes, Theravance will receive clinical, regulatory
and commercial milestone payments and royalties on the subsequent sales of medicines. Based on the assessment performed, the Groupwas
the primary beneficiary of Theravance, as defined by FIN 46R, and as a result Theravance has been consolidated into the Group’s US GAAP
financial statements from May 2004. The net assets acquired were measured at fair value. The principal adjustment to the carrying value of
the net assets in Theravance’s balance sheet prior to the acquisition was recognition of in-process research and development (IPR&D) at a valuation
of £273 million. The IPR&Dwas writtenoff immediately after the acquisition in accordance with USGAAP purchase accounting. The effect of
consolidating Theravance, including reversal of fair value gains recorded for the investment under IFRS,has been to decrease shareholders’
equity by £10million (2004 – £60 million) and net income by £16million(2004 – £60 million).
Additionally, the Group has accounted for the Theravance put option discussed above in accordance with SFAS 150, ‘Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity’, which requires the Group to record the fair value of the put option as
a liability. The fair value of the Theravance put option at 31st December 2005 is £47million (2004 – £69 million). In accordance with SFAS 133
‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities’ the call option is not recognised in the financial statements as it is not readily
convertible into cash.
GSK Annual Report 2005
142
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
(d) Taxation
2005 2004 2003
Total tax expense £m £m £m
IFRS:
Current tax expense 2,019 1,667 1,961
Deferred tax(credit)/expense (103) 90 (310)
Total tax expense 1,916 1,757 1,651
US GAAP:
Current tax expense 2,103 1,717 2,014
Deferred tax credit (688) (667) (1,050)
Total tax expense 1,415 1,050 964
IFRSto USGAAP adjustments:
Current tax expense 84 50 53
Deferred tax credit (585) (757) (740)
Total tax expense (501) (707) (687)
The IFRS to USGAAP adjustment in respect of current tax expense includes £37million (2004 – £40 million; 2003 – £40 million) for the Group’s
share of the tax expense of associates. This is recognised in the Taxation charge in the income statement under USGAAP but recorded in Share
of after tax profits of associates in the income statement presented in accordance with IFRS.
(e) Deferred taxation under USGAAP
Classification of GSK’s deferred taxation liabilities and assets under US GAAP is as follows:
2005 2004
£m £m
Liabilities
Stock valuation adjustment (42) (52)
Other timing differences 63 70
Current deferred taxation liabilities 21 18
Accelerated capital allowances (187) (621)
Product rights (4,035) (4,264)
Product and business disposals 13 (32)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 25 294
Other timing differences 25 37
Total deferred taxation liabilities (4,138) (4,568)
Assets
Intra-Group profit 619 594
Stock valuation adjustment (72) (62)
Other timing differences 614 523
Current deferred taxation assets 1,161 1,055
Accelerated capital allowances (492) (54)
Product and business disposals (9) –
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 43 (253)
Tax losses 125 61
Restructuring 53 51
Legal and other disputes 160 149
Share option and award schemes 276 179
Other timing differences (3) 45
Valuation allowances (62) (42)
Total deferred taxation assets 1,252 1,191
Net deferred taxation under US GAAP (2,886) (3,377)
Net deferred taxation under IFRS 1,645 1,463
IFRS to USGAAP adjustment (4,531) (4,840)
GSK Annual Report 2005
143
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
(f) Pensions and post-retirement costs under USGAAP 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
UK pension schemes 218 225 278
US pension schemes 55 54 79
Other overseas pension schemes 87 77 83
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 114 96 118
Post-employment costs 2 18 24
476 470 582
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 306 298 389
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 29 37 26
Defined contribution schemes 25 21 25
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 114 96 118
Post-employment costs 2 18 24
476 470 582
The disclosures below include the additional information required by SFAS 132R. The pension costs of the UK, US and major overseas defined
benefit pension plans have been restated in the following tables in accordance with US GAAP. Minor retirement plans with pension costs in
2005 of £8 million (2004 – £5 million; 2003 – £9 million), have not been recalculated in accordance with the requirements of SFAS 87, and
have been excluded.
2005 2004 2003
Net periodic pension cost for the major retirement plans £m £m £m
Service cost 223 213 211
Interest cost 408 400 392
Expected return on plan assets (444) (431) (408)
Amortisation of prior service cost 13 14 17
Amortisation of transition obligation 2 2 3
Amortisation of net actuarial loss 107 115 79
Net periodic pension cost under US GAAP 309 313 294
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 19 13 112
2005 2004 2003
Major assumptions used in computing pension costs % pa % pa % pa
Rates of future pay increases 4.00 4.25 4.25
Discount rate 4.75 5.25 5.50
Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets 6.75 7.00 7.50
In aggregate, average international plan assumptions did not vary significantly from US assumptions.
Estimated future benefit payments £m
2006 339
2007 353
2008 365
2009 381
2010 400
2011–2015 2,272
GSK Annual Report 2005
144
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2005 2004
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at1st January (8,171) (7,866)
Amendments (1) (2)
Service cost (223) (213)
Interest cost (408) (400)
Plan participants’ contributions (15) (15)
Actuarial loss (1,334) (137)
Benefits paid 372 345
Termination benefits and curtailment costs (15) (5)
Exchange adjustments (202) 122
Benefit obligation at31st December (9,997) (8,171)
Benefit obligation at31st Decemberfor pension plans with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets (8,748) (5,554)
The accumulated benefit obligation at 31st December 2005 was £9,294 million (31st December 2004 – £7,691 million).
2005 2004
Change in plan assets £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at1st January 6,690 5,968
Actual return on plan assets 1,113 651
Employer contributions 661 465
Plan participants’ contributions 15 15
Benefits paid (372) (345)
Exchange adjustments 191 (64)
Fair value of plan assets at31st December 8,298 6,690
Fair value of plan assets at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets 7,735 4,519
Plan assets consist primarily of investments in UK and overseas equities, fixed interest securities, index-linked securities and property. At 31st
December 2005 UK equities included 1.9 million GSK shares (2004 – 0.3 million shares) with a market value of £28 million (2004 – £4 million).
An analysis of the percentage of total plan assets for each major category is disclosed in Note 26. This analysis includes assets valued at £101
million in minor retirement plans, which have been excluded from these tables.
2005 2004
Funded status £m £m
Funded status (1,699) (1,481)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 2,499 1,900
Unrecognised prior service cost 60 75
Unrecognised transition obligation 21 24
Net amount recognised 881 518
2005 2004
Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position £m £m
Prepaid benefit cost 8 365
Accrued pension liability (1,027) (1,065)
Intangible asset 86 102
Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,814 1,116
Net amount recognised 881 518
GSK Annual Report 2005
145
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
38Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Post-retirement healthcare under USGAAP
The post-retirement healthcare costs of the UK, US and major overseas post-retirement healthcare schemes have been restated in the following
tables in accordance with USGAAP. Minor healthcare plans with costs in 2005 of £5 million (2004 – £nil; 2003 – £13 million) have not been
recalculated and have been excluded.
2005 2004 2003
Net healthcare cost £m £m £m
Service cost 37 32 29
Interest cost 57 55 64
Amortisation of prior service cost (2) (1) (2)
Amortisation of net actuarial loss 15 11 14
Net healthcare cost 107 97 105
The major assumptions used in calculating the net healthcare cost were: %pa %pa %pa
Rate of future healthcare inflation 10.0 to 5.0 9.0 to 5.0 10.0 to 5.0
Discount rate 5.50 5.75 6.25
The rate of future healthcare inflation reflects the fact that the benefits of certain groups of participants are capped.
2005 2004
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at1st January 965 975
Service cost 37 32
Interest cost 57 55
Plan participants’ contributions 8 8
Actuarial loss 82 6
Benefits paid (43) (47)
Exchange 105 (64)
Benefit obligation at31st December 1,211 965
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at1st January – –
Employer and plan participants’ contributions 43 47
Benefits paid (43) (47)
Fair value of plan assets at31st December – –
Funded status
Funded status (1,211) (965)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 450 340
Unrecognised prior service cost (14) (14)
Accrued post-retirement healthcare cost (775) (639)
1% decrease 1% increase
Impact of a 1% variation in the rate of future healthcare inflation £m £m
Effect on total service and interest cost for post-retirement healthcare (7) 10
Effect on obligation for post-retirement healthcare (81) 90
Medicare
Gross subsidy Net
Estimated future benefit payments £m £m £m
2006 42 (3) 39
2007 46 (3) 43
2008 49 (4) 45
2009 53 (4) 49
2010 56 (4) 52
2011–2015 317 (29) 288
GSK Annual Report 2005
146
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFSTNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
39Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31stDecember 2005. Details
are given of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business segment and the business activities. The equity
share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are
incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
England Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One)Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited Ph,CH s
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ph f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham p.l.c. Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Greenford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Greenford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome International B.V.(i) Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome Investments B.V.(i) Ph,CH h
Stockley Park Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ph h m p
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph d r
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UKLimited Ph m p
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ph,CH f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited CH e m
Brentford SmithKline Beecham Research Limited Ph m
Brentford Stafford-Miller Limited CH m p
Greenford The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ph p
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma G.m.b.H Ph m
Belgium Genval GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d e m p r
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Manufacturing S.A. Ph h
Guernsey St. Peter Port SmithKline Beecham Limited Ph,CH i
Denmark Ballerup GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph m
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ph m p
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH m
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co.KG CH d h m p r s
Munich GlaxoSmithKlinePharmaGmbH Ph h
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH h m
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKlineMedicine and Healthcare Products Limited Ph,CH e m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d h m r
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p A. CH h m
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) S.A. Ph,CH f h
GSK Annual Report 2005
147STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
39Principal Group companies continued
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Zeist GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. CH m
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph m p 97
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.Zo.o. CH m e
Portugal Lisbon GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ph m
Republic of Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited(ii) CH m
Ireland Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited(ii) Ph p
Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Manufacturing)Limited(ii) Ph p
Spain Tres Cantos GlaxoSmithKlineS.A. Ph mp
Alcala de Henares SmithKline Beecham S.A. Ph p
Sweden Solna GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline Investments (Switzerland) GmbH Ph,CH h
Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
Zug Adechsa GmbH Ph e
USA
USA Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Corporation Ph,CH d e h m p r s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m p 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc. CH h m p
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Financial Inc. Ph f
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Ph,CH h
Americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Ph,CH m p r
Vancouver IDBiomedical Corporation Ph d m p r
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ph d m p r 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph m p 51
Nabha GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited(iii) CH m p 43
Malaysia Petaling Jaya GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph,CH m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH m p e 79
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ph,CH m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph p
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph m
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Ph m p
Taiwan Taipei Glaxo Wellcome Taiwan Limited Ph m p
GSK Annual Report 2005
148Notes to the financial statements
continued
39Principal Group companies continued
Japan Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p r 85
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH m p
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Ltda Ph,CH m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Mexico Delegacion Tlalpan GlaxoSmithKline MexicoS.A.de C.V. Ph,CH e m p s
Puerto Rico Guaynabo GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. Ph m
San Juan SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc. Ph p
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ph,CH m
Middle East &
Africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E Ph m p 90
South Africa Bryanston GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ph,CH m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph m p
USA Location Associated undertaking Business %
USA Teterboro Quest Diagnostics Incorporated(iv) Clinical testing 18
i) Incorporated in the Netherlands.
ii) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment)Act 1986 (Ireland).
iii) Consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258 (4)(a) of the Companies Act on the grounds of dominant
influence.
iv) Equity accounted on the grounds of significant influence.
+ Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Key
Business segment: Ph Pharmaceuticals, CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development, e exporting, f finance, h holding company, i insurance, m marketing, p production, r research,s service
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the Registrar
ofCompanies.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2005
149Notes to the financial statements
continued
40Transition to IFRS IFRS adjustments
A summary of the principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS
Background as they apply toGSKis set out below and the financial effect is shown
The IFRS project on pages153to156.
In June 2002, the Council of the European Union adopted a
Customer allowances
Regulation requiring listed companies in its Member States to prepare
This adjustment is a reclassification between turnover and expenses
their consolidated financial statements in accordance with
with no profit or cash flow effect. IFRS has no detailed rules in relation
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from 2005.
to when certain marketing and promotional expenditure should be
The GlaxoSmithKline Annual Report for the year ending 31st deducted from turnover rather than recorded as an expense. However,
December 2005 is the first Annual Report prepared under IFRS. these rules do exist under US GAAP in EITF 01-09, ‘Accounting for
Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer’, which requires most
As 2003 is the earliest year for which full IFRS financial statementsare
marketing, advertising, and promotion payments made to customers
presented in the Annual Report 2005, the transition date to IFRS for
to be deducted from turnover. This has the most significant impact in
GlaxoSmithKline is 1st January 2003. Normally,accounting changes
the Consumer Healthcare business where payments to large retailers
of this nature would require full retrospective application, but GSK has
for in-store advertising, preferential shelf-space, product listings etc.
taken advantage of exemptions available under the IFRS transitional
are commonplace.
rulesto applycertainrequirementsonlywith effect from the transition
date of 1st January 2003or, in the case of financial instruments, from GSKbelieves that this reflects best practice in revenue recognition
1st January 2005. and hence, in the absence of detailed guidance under IFRS, has
decided to adopt a revenue recognition policy under IFRS in line with
Financial instruments
EITF 01-09. Thereforethereis not expected to be anydifference
GSK has adopted IAS39 as endorsed by the European Union.
between turnover reported under IFRS and turnover reported under
However, one of the exemptions available under IFRS 1 relaxes the
US GAAP. This adjustment has no impact on profit before tax or EPS.
requirement for comparative information presented in the Annual
Report 2005 to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39. GlaxoSmithKline has Share-based payments
taken advantage of this exemption, and so, in 2003 and 2004, financial ThepreviousUK GAAP approach to share-based paymentswasto
instruments are accounted for and presented on a UK GAAP basis. record any intrinsic loss on grant suffered by the company. This means
that for share options granted at the market price, therewasno
On 1st January 2005 there was an adjustment of £12 million to the
charge to the income statement. Where shares or options were
opening balance sheet to reflect the movements from the UK GAAP
granted at no cost to the employee (e.g. under long-term incentive
carrying values to the IAS 39 values, which for many financial
plans) the income statementwascharged with an amount equal to
instruments will be fair value.
the market price on the date of the award, spread over the
The financial instruments concerned are: performance period (usually three years).
•Held at fair value under IFRS with movements recorded in equity: IFRS 2, ‘Share-based Payment’, and its UKGAAP equivalent FRS20,
– Equity investments ‘Share-based Payment’, both of which came into force in 2005,
– Liquid investments require the fair value of the equity instruments issued to be charged
– Derivatives classified as cash flow hedging instruments to the income statement.The Grouphas chosen to recognise all
unvested options and awards retrospectively.
•Held at fair value under IFRS with movements recorded in the
income statement: GSK receives a tax credit, as appropriate, which relates to share
– Equity collar linked to the Group’s investment in Quest Diagnostics options and awards when exercised, based on the gains the holders
Inc. make and dependent on the tax rules in the country in which the
– Put and call options linked to the Group’s strategic alliance with deduction is claimed. The deferred tax asset represents an estimate
Theravance Inc. of future tax relief for this gain and is based on the potential gains
– Other derivatives not classified as hedging instruments, including available to the option or award holders at the balance sheet date.
embedded derivatives The movement in deferred tax asset from one balance sheet to the
– Derivatives classified as fair value hedges together with the next may result in either a tax credit or a tax charge recorded in the
hedged element of the relevant asset or liability income statement.The amount of any tax credit recognised in the
income statement is capped at the cumulative amount of the tax
•Presentation differences only:
effect of the share-based payment charge. Any excess credit is taken
– Non-equity minority interests (repaid during 2004).
to equity.
If the IAS39 valuation rules had been applied in 2004 there would
This adjustment reducedprofit before tax in 2004 by £309 million
have been a charge to profit before tax, the largest elements of which
(2003 – £368 million), earnings by £314 million (2003 – £344 million)
arise from the Quest collar (£42 million; 2003 – £42 million) and the
and EPS by 5.5 pence (2003 – 5.9 pence).
Theravance put and call options (£53 million; 2003 – nil). Valuations
are inherently unpredictable and changes in the fair values of financial
instruments could have a material impact on the future results and
financial position of GSK.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2005
150Notes to the financial statements
continued
40Transition to IFRS continued Pensions and other post-employment benefits
GlaxoSmithKline accountedunder UK GAAP for pensions and other
Theshare-based payments chargereducedtoamore normal level of
post-employment benefits (OPEBs) in accordance with SSAP 24, which
£236millionin2005. The considerably higher charge in 2004 and
spreadthe costs of providing the benefits over the estimated average
2003 arises from two main factors. Relatively few share options were
service lives of the employees.
granted during 2000 when the GW/SB merger was being finalised,
but then in 2001 there was a full “catch-up” grant early in the year IAS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’,recognises surpluses and deficits in the
followed by the normal annual grant in November 2001. In addition, accounts, and in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1,
the grants in 2001 were made at an average share price in excess of the surpluses and deficits have been recognised in full on the balance
£18. These share optionsbecame exercisable in 2004 and therefore sheet at the transition date of 1st January 2003. In addition, following
fellout of the charge in 2005,which nowreflectsmore current share an amendment to IAS19 issued by the IASB in December 2004, it is
prices and more normal grant levels. permitted to recognise any movements in the surpluses or deficits
immediately in the balance sheet, but outside the income statement,
Coreg capitalisation and amortisation
in the Statement of recognised income and expense.This means that,
The North American rights to Coregwere acquired at the time of the
in most cases, the balance sheet reflects the full surplus or deficit
GW/SB merger as partial consideration for the required disposal of
positions of the funds.
Kytril to Roche. Under UK GAAP this was accounted for as an
exchange of assets with no value being attributed to Coregon the The Group’s policy is to charge out to the operating businesses the
balance sheet. IFRS, however, requires the acquired rights to Coregto service cost element of the pension charge, which then gets reported
be added to intangible assets at their fair value on the date of within cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenditure or
acquisition of $400 million, and then amortised over their remaining research and development as appropriate, but not to charge out the
useful life of eight years. This adjustment reduces 2004 profit before element related to the funding deficit, which is all reported inselling,
tax by £27 million (2003 – £31 million) and EPS by 0.3 pence (2003 general and administrative expenditure. Under IAS 19, the service
– 0.3 pence). cost element of the total charge is considerably higher than under
SSAP 24 and the funding deficit element lower. Thishas ledto an
Other intangible assets amortisation
additional reclassification adjustment between the income statement
Under UK GAAP, GSKamortisedintangible assets over their estimated
expense headings.
expected useful lives from acquisition, whichwasup to a maximum
of 15 years. IFRS only permits amortisation to commence when the The overall impact of the adjustments to pensions and OPEBs in 2004
asset becomes available for use, with annual impairment testing wasa decrease in profit before tax of £36 million (2003 – increase of
required before this point. GSKhas determined that the point at which £11 million) and a decrease in EPS of 0.4 pence (2003 – nil).
amortisation of product-related assets commences under IFRS will
Share of profits of associates
normally be regulatory approval. The majority of the Group’s
Under UKGAAP the share of profits of associateswasreported within
intangible assets relates to the acquisition of rights to compounds in
profit before tax for the Group. However, IFRS requires this share of
development and so has not reached the point at which amortisation
profits to be the net profit attributable to the Group, i.e. after interest,
commences. This has led to a reduction in the amortisation charge,
tax and minority interests of the associate. This has led to a
which is likely to reverse in the future as these compounds reach
reclassification adjustment removing the share of the associates’
regulatory approval and amortisation is then charged over a shorter
interest, tax and minority interests from those lines in the income
period. Profit before tax in 2004 increasedby £43 million (2003 – £43
statement and netting them all together in the share of profits of
million) and EPS by 0.5 pence (2003 – 0.5 pence).
associates line. This adjustment reduced2004 profit before tax by
Goodwill amortisation £42 million (2003 – £42 million) butdidnot affect EPS.
UK GAAP required goodwill to be amortised over its estimated
Deferred tax on intercompany profit
expected useful life, which GSKhad determined to be normally no
Under UK GAAP, deferred tax on the provision for intercompany profit
longer than 20 years. Under IFRS, however, goodwill is considered to
held in inventory is calculated at the supplying company’s effective tax
have an indefinite life and so is not amortised, but is subject to annual
rate. IFRS, however, takes a balance sheet approach to the recognition
impairment testing. This adjustment therefore reverses the goodwill
of deferred tax which results in the tax rate of the company holding
amortisation charged under UK GAAP, including that recorded in the
the inventory at the balance sheet date being applied to the provision.
profit on share of associates line relating to the acquisition of the
If the proportions of the Group’s inventory held in specific locations
Group’s interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc. Under the business
change significantly from one balance sheet date to the next there
combinations exemption of IFRS 1, goodwill previously written off
could be a significant change in the value of the deferred tax asset,
direct to reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the income
which is reflected through the tax charge for the year.
statement on the disposal or part-disposal of the subsidiary or
associate, as it would be under UK GAAP. The adjustment increases
2004 profit before tax by £37million (2003 – £26 million) and EPS by
0.7 pence (2003 – 0.4 pence).
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2005
151STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
40Transition to IFRS continued •Amortisation of goodwill under UKGAAP prior to the date of
transition to IFRS, 1st January 2003, has not been reversed.
Other adjustments
Accordingly, goodwill recognised on the IFRS balance sheet is lower
There are a number of other minor adjustments and reclassifications,
in this respect than it would have been if GSK had not taken
including:
advantage of the business combinations exemption
•Computer software, which is recorded as an intangible asset unless
•Share-based payments: IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, applies to
it forms an integral part of the operating system of a tangible fixed
equity instruments, such as share options granted since 7th
asset
November 2002, but GlaxoSmithKline has elected to adopt full
•Deferred tax on brands acquired with a company, where if there is retrospective application of the standard
a difference between the fair value of the brands on acquisition and
•Financial instruments: Financial instruments in the comparative
the tax value, a taxable temporary difference arises
periods presented in the Annual Report 2005 (i.e. 2004 and 2003)
•Cash equivalents reclassification, where liquid investments with arerecognised and measuredon theUK GAAP basisapplicable in
maturities of less than three months at acquisition are included those years, rather than in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial
within cash and cash equivalents Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’.As a result, certain
derivative instruments, are not recognised in the comparative
•Provisions reclassification, where the elements of provisions expected
periods. IFRS hedge accounting is not applied in the comparative
to be paid within one year of the balance sheet date, with the
periods so hedged borrowings are recorded at amortised cost rather
exception of pensions and OPEBs, are presented within current
than at fair value. Also, available-for-sale financial assets such as
liabilities.
equity investments and liquid investments are recorded at cost less
Cash flow statement impairments rather than at fair value.
The move from UKGAAP to IFRS does not change any of the cash
flows of the Group. The IFRS cash flow format is similar to UKGAAP
but presents various cash flows in different categories and in a
different order from the UKGAAP cash flow statement. All of the
IFRS accounting adjustments net out within cash generated from
operations except for the intangible assets reclassification and the
inclusion of liquid investments with a maturity of less than three
months on acquisition, together with related exchange adjustments,
within cash and cash equivalents under IFRS.
IFRS 1 exemptionsand elections
IFRS 1, First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting
Standards, permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first time
to take some exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS in the
transition period or to make elections to apply IFRS with full
retrospective effect where not required to do so. GSKhas adopted the
following key exemptionsand elections:
•Business combinations: Business combinations prior to the transition
date (1st January 2003) have not been restated onto an IFRS basis.
If the merger of Glaxo Wellcomeand SmithKline Beecham in 2000
had been restated onto an IFRS basis it would have been accounted
for as an acquisition. Fair value adjustments to the net assets of the
acquired company would have been required, including the
recognition of significant intangible asset balances for product rights
relating to both marketed products and in-process R&D, which were
not recognised under merger accounting. A significant goodwill
balance would also have been recorded
•Goodwill writtenoff to reserves prior to 1998 under old UKGAAP
is not written back to goodwill. If the business combinations
exemption had not been taken, additional goodwill balances
relating to acquisitions prior to 1998 would havebeen recognised
on the IFRS balance sheet
GSK Annual Report 2005
152Notes to the financial statements
continued
40Transition to IFRS continued
IFRS Consolidated income statement
12 months 2004 12 months 2003
UK GAAP Adjustments IFRS UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 20,359 (373) 19,986 21,441 (371) 21,070
Cost of sales (4,309) (51) (4,360) (4,544) (33) (4,577)
Gross profit 16,050 (424) 15,626 16,897 (404) 16,493
Selling, general and administration (7,061) (140) (7,201) (7,597) (291) (7,888)
Research and development (2,839) (65) (2,904) (2,791) (74) (2,865)
Other operating income (60) 295 235 (133) 443 310
Operating profit 6,090 (334) 5,756 6,376 (326) 6,050
Finance income 102 74 176 61 40 101
Financecosts (305) (57) (362) (222) (32) (254)
Share of profits/(losses) of associates and joint ventures 95 (35) 60 93 (36) 57
Profit on disposal of interests in associates 138 11 149 – – –
Profit before taxation 6,120 (341) 5,779 6,308 (354) 5,954
Taxation (1,701) (56) (1,757) (1,729) 78 (1,651)
(Loss)/profit on disposal of businesses (1) 1 – 5 – 5
Profit after taxation for the year 4,418 (396) 4,022 4,584 (276) 4,308
Profit attributable to minority interests 116 (2) 114 106 1 107
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,302 (394) 3,908 4,478 (277) 4,201
Earnings per share(pence) 75.0p (6.9)p 68.1p 77.1p (4.8)p 72.3p
Diluted earnings per share(pence) 74.8p (6.8)p 68.0p 76.9p (4.8)p 72.1p
IFRS Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
31st December 2004 31st December 2003
UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (54) 7 (47) 113 (60) 53
Tax on exchange movementsand unrealised gains (73) – (73) (92) 2 (90)
Goodwill written back 20 (20) – – – –
Revaluation of goodwill due to exchange 6 – 6 (7) – (7)
Unrealised(loss)/profiton disposal of intellectual property (1) 1 – 7 (7) –
Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit plans – 108 108 – (432) (432)
Deferred tax on actuarial movements ondefinedbenefit plans – (17) (17) – 121 121
Net (losses)/gainsrecognised directly in equity (102) 79 (23) 21 (376) (355)
Profit for the year 4,418 (396) 4,022 4,584 (276) 4,308
Total recognised income and expense for the year 4,316 (317) 3,999 4,605 (652) 3,953
GSK Annual Report 2005
153
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
40Transition to IFRS continued
IFRS Consolidated balance sheet
31st December 2004 31st December 2003
UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS UKGAAP Adjustments IFRS
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 6,471 (274) 6,197 6,441 (285) 6,156
Goodwill 139 165 304 143 151 294
Other intangible assets 2,003 510 2,513 1,697 533 2,230
Investments in associates and joint ventures 187 22 209 196 14 210
Other investments 298 – 298 262 – 262
Deferred tax assets 1,537 495 2,032 1,441 498 1,939
Other non-current assets 597 14 611 522 9 531
Total non-current assets 11,232 932 12,164 10,702 920 11,622
Current assets
Inventories 2,192 1 2,193 2,109 – 2,109
Current tax recoverable – 155 155 – 239 239
Trade and other receivables 5,175 (724) 4,451 4,934 (439) 4,495
Liquid investments 2,818 (1,306) 1,512 2,493 (1,024) 1,469
Cash and cash equivalents 1,161 1,306 2,467 962 1,024 1,986
Assets held for sale – 2 2 – – –
Total current assets 11,346 (566) 10,780 10,498 (200) 10,298
Total assets 22,578 366 22,944 21,200 720 21,920
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings (1,582) – (1,582) (1,452) – (1,452)
Trade and other payables (5,542) 1,275 (4,267) (5,561) 1,364 (4,197)
Current tax payable (1,598) (155) (1,753) (1,458) (239) (1,697)
Short-term provisions – (962) (962) – (968) (968)
Total current liabilities (8,722) 158 (8,564) (8,471) 157 (8,314)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings (4,381) – (4,381) (3,651) – (3,651)
Deferred tax provision (710) 141 (569) (618) 253 (365)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits (785) (1,734) (2,519) (807) (2,137) (2,944)
Other provisions (1,534) 965 (569) (1,617) 962 (655)
Other non-current liabilities (244) (161) (405) (232) (161) (393)
Total non-current liabilities (7,654) (789) (8,443) (6,925) (1,083) (8,008)
Total liabilities (16,376) (631) (17,007) (15,396) (926) (16,322)
Net assets 6,202 (265) 5,937 5,804 (206) 5,598
Equity
Share capital 1,484 – 1,484 1,487 – 1,487
Share premium account 304 – 304 264 – 264
Retained earnings 4,781 (239) 4,542 4,112 (153) 3,959
Other reserves (644) 38 (606) (804) 11 (793)
Shareholders’ equity 5,925 (201) 5,724 5,059 (142) 4,917
Minority interests 277 (64) 213 745 (64) 681
Totalequity 6,202 (265) 5,937 5,804 (206) 5,598
GSK Annual Report 2005
154
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
40Transition to IFRS continued
Analysis of IFRS adjustments to the income statement
Year ended 31st December 2004
Other
Share- intangible Share of
Customer based Coreg assets Goodwill Pensions profits of IFRS
allowances payments amortisation amortisation amortisation and OPEBS associates Other adjustments
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover (373) – – – – – – – (373)
Cost of sales 14 (36) – – – (16) – (13) (51)
Gross profit (359) (36) – – – (16) – (13) (424)
Selling, general and administration 359 (182) (27) – 12 (3) – (299) (140)
Research and development – (91) – 43 – (17) – – (65)
Other operating income – – – – – – – 295 295
Operating profit – (309) (27) 43 12 (36) – (17) (334)
Finance income – – – – – – – 74 74
Financecosts – – – – – – 7 (64) (57)
Share of profits/(losses) of associates
and jointventures – – – – 14 – (49) – (35)
Profit on disposal of interests in
associates – – – – 11 – – – 11
Profit before taxation – (309) (27) 43 37 (36) (42) (7) (341)
Taxation – (5) 9 (12) – 13 40 (101) (56)
Profit on disposal of businesses – – – – 1 – – – 1
Profit after taxation for the year – (314) (18) 31 38 (23) (2) (108) (396)
Profit attributable to minority interests – – – – – – (2) – (2)
Profit attributable to shareholders – (314) (18) 31 38 (23) – (108) (394)
Earnings per share(pence) – (5.5)p (0.3)p 0.5p 0.7p (0.4)p – (1.9)p (6.9)p
Reconciliation of opening equity by component of equity
At 1st January 2003
Share Total
Share premium Other Retained shareholders’ Minority Total
capital account reserves earnings equity interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
UK GAAP 1,506 224 (921) 3,031 3,840 807 4,647
IFRS adjustments (net of tax):
Pensions – – – (1,456) (1,456) – (1,456)
Deferred profit on stock – – – 249 249 – 249
Dividends – – – 1,287 1,287 – 1,287
Deferred tax onindefinite life assets – – – (300) (300) – (300)
Coreg – – – 126 126 – 126
Other intangible assets – – – 45 45 – 45
Share-based payments – – (5) 5 – – –
Tax on share-based payments – – – 48 48 – 48
Other – – – 30 30 (64) (34)
Total IFRS adjustments – – (5) 34 29 (64) (35)
IFRS 1,506 224 (926) 3,065 3,869 743 4,612
GSK Annual Report 2005
155
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
40Transition to IFRS continued
Analysis of IFRS balance sheet adjustments
At 31st December 2004
Coreg Other
capitalisation intangible Goodwill
Dividend Share-based and assets amortisation Pensions IFRS
deferred payments amortisation amortisation reversal and OPEBS Other adjustments
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment – – – – – – (274) (274)
Goodwill – – – – 26 – 139 165
Other intangible assets – – 104 148 – – 258 510
Investments in associates and joint ventures – – – – 22 – – 22
Other investments – – – – – – – –
Deferred tax assets – 67 (34) (29) – 324 167 495
Other non-current assets – – – – – 14 – 14
Total non-current assets – 67 70 119 48 338 290 932
Current assets
Inventories – – – – – – 1 1
Current tax recoverable – – – – – – 155 155
Trade and other receivables – – – – – (724) – (724)
Liquid investments – – – – – – (1,306) (1,306)
Cash and cash equivalents – – – – – – 1,306 1,306
Assets held for sale – – – – – – 2 2
Total current assets – – – – – (724) 158 (566)
Total assets – 67 70 119 48 (386) 448 366
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings – – – – – – – –
Trade and other payables 1,254 – – – – 21 – 1,275
Current tax payable – – – – – – (155) (155)
Short-term provisions – – – – – – (962) (962)
Total current liabilities 1,254 – – – – 21 (1,117) 158
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings – – – – – – – –
Deferred tax provision – – – (27) – 472 (304) 141
Pensions and other post-employment benefits – – – – – (1,734) – (1,734)
Other provisions – – – – – 3 962 965
Other non-current liabilities – – – – – – (161) (161)
Total non-current liabilities – – – (27) – (1,259) 497 (789)
Total liabilities 1,254 – – (27) – (1,238) (620) (631)
Net assets 1,254 67 70 92 48 (1,624) (172) (265)
Equity
Share capital – – – – – – – –
Share premium account – – – – – – – –
Retained earnings 1,254 29 70 92 48 (1,619) (113) (239)
Other reserves – 38 – – – – – 38
Shareholders’ equity 1,254 67 70 92 48 (1,619) (113) (201)
Minority interests – – – – – (5) (59) (64)
Total equity 1,254 67 70 92 48 (1,624) (172) (265)
GSK Annual Report 2005
156
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Legal proceedings The Group holds other US patents relating to Advairwhich are not
affected by the re-issue application, including the compound patent
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative
related to the active ingredient salmeterol which affords protection
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, anti-
through August 2008 (after giving effect to an expected grant of
trust and governmental investigations and related private litigation.
paediatric exclusivity by the FDA)andvarious patents relating to the
The Group makes provision for these proceedings on a regular basis
Diskusdevice which expire over a period from 2011 to 2016.
as summarised in Notes2and27. The Group may make additional
significant provisions for such legal proceedings as required in the Avandia and Avandamet
event of further developments in these matters, consistent with In August 2003, the Group filed an action in the US District Court for
generally accepted accounting principles. Litigation, particularly in the the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. for
USA, is inherently unpredictable and excessive awards that may not infringement of the Group’s patent relating to the maleate salt form
be justified by the evidence may occur. The Group could in the future of rosiglitazone, the active ingredient in Avandia, which expires in
incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could result 2015. In September 2003, the Group filed a comparable action in
in payments that exceed its current provisions by an amount that the same court against Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, alleging infringement
would have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial of the same patent. Those actions were filed in response to
condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) filings with the FDA by Dr
Reddy’s Laboratories and Teva with certifications that the Group’s
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity of the
maleate salt patent is invalid. FDA approval of those ANDAs is stayed
Group’s patents on various products or processes and assertions of
until the earlier of November 2006 or resolution of the respective
non-infringement of those patents. A loss in any of these cases could
patent infringement actions.
result in loss of patent protection for the product at issue. The
consequences of any such loss could be a significant decrease in sales Teva subsequently filed an additional certification challenging the
of that product and could materially affect future results of operations validity of the Group’s basic compound patent for rosiglitazone, and
for the Group. in January 2004 the Group commenced an action against Teva in the
same court for infringement of that patent. The basic compound
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are
patent currently expires in 2012 after giving effect to patent term
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions are
restoration and paediatric exclusivity.
made, after taking appropriate legal advice, when a reasonable
estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the dispute. In 2004 In January 2005, the Group filed an action in the US District Court for
the Group established an actuarially determined provision for product the District of New Jersey against Teva for infringement of the same
liability claims incurred but not yet reported as described in Note27. two patents – the basic compound and maleate salt patents for
At 31st December 2005 the Group’s aggregate provision for legal rosiglitazone. Teva had filed an ANDA with the FDA for a generic
and other disputes (not including tax matters described under version of Avandametwith a certification that those patents are invalid
‘Taxation’ in Note12) was over £1.1billion. The ultimate liability for or not infringed. FDA approval of that ANDA is stayed until the earlier
legal claims may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent of June 2007 or resolution of the patent infringement action. Since
upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and Avandametis protected by the same patents as Avandia, any earlier
possible settlement negotiations. holding of invalidity in the Avandiacases would be dispositive for
Avandametas well.
The most significant of those matters are described below.
Imitrex
Intellectual property
In December 2003, the Group commenced an action in the US District
Advair
Court for the Southern District of New York against Dr Reddy’s
In September 2004, the Group applied to the US Patent and
Laboratories, alleging infringement of one of the two primary
Trademark Office (USPTO) for re-issue of its combination patent for
compound patents for sumatriptan, the active ingredient in Imitrex.
Advair, an inhaled combination of salmeterol and fluticasone
The patent at issue affords protection through February 2009 after
propionate, which expires in September 2010. This followed an
giving effect to a grant of paediatric exclusivity by the FDA. The
internal review which concluded that the language in the patent may
defendant had filed an ANDA with the FDA for sumatriptan oral
not accurately describe all of the circumstances of the invention and
tablets with a certification of invalidity of that compound patent but
may not claim the invention as precisely as it could. The objective of
did not certify invalidity or non-infringement of theothercompound
seeking re-issuance is to strengthen the protection afforded by the
patent that expires in June 2007 after giving effect to paediatric
patent. In January 2006, the USPTO issued a final office action
exclusivity.
rejecting that application. The Group will seek reconsideration of the
rejection, and a response to the USPTO is expected in the first half of In March 2004, the Group commenced an infringement action
the year. While the application for re-issue remains pending, the against Cobalt Pharmaceuticals which was transferred to the US
patent remains in force and is listed in the register of pharmaceutical District Court for the Southern District of New York. The defendant
patents maintained by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had filed an ANDA forsumatripan oral tablets with a certification of
(the Orange Book). invalidity or non-infringement of the same compound patent at issue
in the Dr Reddy’s case. Final pre-trial conference in the consolidated
Dr Reddy’s and Cobalt case is scheduled for May 2006.
GSK Annual Report 2005
157
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF41Legal proceedings continued Between 1999 and 2001, the Group filed further actions against
Apotex in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
In February 2005,the Group commenced an infringement action in for infringement of additional of the Group’s patents. In December
the US District Court for the District of Delaware against Spectrum 2002, the judge granted in part and denied in part summary
Pharmaceuticals. The defendant had filed an ANDA for injectable judgment motions filed by Apotex with the result that issues of validity
sumatriptan with a certification of invalidity or non-infringement of and infringement of three of the fouradditionalpatents remained
the same compound patent at issue in the Dr Reddy’s and Cobalt for trial. In July 2004, the judge certified the patent that had been
cases. Trial date in this case is set at November 2006. held invalid for appeal tothe CAFC.In February 2006, the CAFC
affirmed the judge’s ruling of invalidity of that patent.
Lamictal
In August 2002, the Group commenced an action in the US District The Group also commenced actions in the US District Court for the
Court for the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Geneva, Alphapharm, Andrx
Inc., alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for Pharmaceuticals, Zenith and Teva Pharmaceuticals in connection with
lamotrigine, the active ingredient in Lamictaloral tablets. That patent their ANDA filings for Paxiland BASF and Sumika Fine Chemicals in
affords protection through January 2009 after giving effect to a grant connection with their supply of paroxetine hydrochloride for use in
of paediatric exclusivity by the FDA. Teva had filed an ANDA with the ANDAs. Those lawsuits have been settled or stayed pending resolution
FDA with a certification of invalidity of the Group’s patent. The parties of the appeals in the Apotex case.Apotex launched its generic product
reached a settlement agreement pursuant to which the Group has in the USA in September 2003. Additional generic products were
granted Teva an exclusive royalty-bearing license to distribute in the launched by other defendants after March 2004.
USA a generic version of lamotrigine chewable tablets. In addition,
The Group’s US patent litigation with Synthon BV was settled in
Teva was granted the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Teva’s
December 2003 enabling US marketing of Synthon’s paroxetine
own generic version of lamotrigine tablets in the USA with an
mesylate product. This was followed with settlement in August 2004
expected launch date in 2008.
of most of the Group’s non-US patent litigation with Synthon as a
Paxil/Seroxat consequence of which Synthon is free to market its paroxetine
In the USA a number of distributors of generic drugs filed applications mesylate product in many markets globally where it has obtained
with the FDA to market generic versions of Paxil/Seroxat(paroxetine marketing authorisations. Resolution of damages in respect of several
hydrochloride) prior to the expiration in 2007(after giving effect to a country markets remains outstanding. Paroxetine mesylate is a
grant of paediatric exclusivity by the FDA) of the Group’s patent on different salt form of paroxetine than that used in the marketed form
paroxetine hyrdrochloride hemihydrate.Thesedistributors sought to of Seroxat/Paxil. In certain markets litigation with Synthon is ongoing
bring to market anhydrate or other versions of paroxetine and Synthon is asserting counterclaims for unfair competition against
hydrochloride and in one case paroxetine mesylate. In response the the Group.
Group filed actions against all those distributors for infringement of
Generic products containing the anhydrate form of paroxetine
various of the Group’s patents on the basis that the generic anhydrate
hydrochloride are now on the market in most European countries.
and other versions infringe because they contain and/or convert to the
Whilst some of these products are the subject of continuing litigation,
hemihydrate form and/or infringe other Group patents.
most actions have now been settled and it is expected that more will
In July 1998, GSK filed an action against Apotex in the US District be settled in the future. In the UK, litigation of several years standing
Court for the Northern District of Illinois for infringement of the between the Group and Apotex culminated in an Appeal Court
Group’s patent for paroxetine hydrochloride hemihydrate. Apotex had decision that the Group’s anhydrate process patent was valid but not
filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to introduce a generic infringed. As a result of the litigation, Apotex was enjoined from
form of Paxil. Following a trial in February 2003 the judge ruled GSK’s launching a product for about one year but is now on the market. A
patent valid but not infringed by Apotex’s product. On the Group’s damages enquiry relating to the injunction is ongoing. A settlement
appealthe US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (CAFC), which of damages claim has been reached with one of Apotex’s local
hears all appeals from US District Courts on patent matters, ruled that distributors.
the Group’s patent was infringed but invalid based upon ‘public use’ Paxil CR
in clinical trials prior to the filing date in the USA. The Group filed a
In November 2005, Mylan Pharmaceuticals filed an ANDA for Paxil CR
petition to the CAFC for rehearing on its appeal by the full court and
(paroxetine hydrochloride controlled release formulation) with a
in April 2005 the full CAFC vacated that judgment and remanded the
certification of invalidity and non-infringement of several patents listed
matter to the same panel. Concurrently with entry of that decision,
in the FDA Orange Book. There was no certification of invalidity or
the panel issued a new opinion ruling the same patent invalid under
non-infringement of the patent covering paroxetine hydrochloride
an alternative theory. The Group’s request for a rehearing by the full
hemihydrate, which Mylan admitted is the active ingredient in its
court of the panel’s new decision was denied and the Group has filed
product. That patent expires in June 2007after giving effect to a grant
a petition for review by the US Supreme Court.
of paediatric exclusivity by the FDA. As the Group did not file a patent
infringement action against Mylan within the 45-day period provided
under Hatch-Waxman, there will be no 30-month stay against FDA
approval of the Mylan ANDA to conduct patent litigation.
GSK Annual Report 2005
158
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continuedNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Legal proceedings continued Zofran
In August 2001, the Group commenced an action in the US District
Requip
Court for the District of New Jersey against Reddy-Cheminor and Dr
In April 2005, the Group commenced an action in the US District
Reddy’s Laboratories. Dr Reddy had certified invalidity of three patents
Court for the District of Delaware against Teva Pharmaceutical USA
for ondansetron, the active ingredient in Zofrantablets, including the
Inc. alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for
compound patent that expired in July 2005 and two method of use
ropinirole hydrochloride (the active ingredient in Requip) and a
patents, the later of which expires in December 2006, in both
method of use patent for treatment of Parkinson’s disease, both of
instances taking into account the extension for paediatric exclusivity.
which are listed in the FDA Orange Book. The compound patent
In July 2003, the Group filed an action against Dr Reddy’s Laboratories
expires in December 2007 and the method of use patent in May
in the same district court for infringement of the Group’s patents
2008. The defendant filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification
related to the orally disintegrating tablet presentation of Zofran. In
of invalidity and non-infringement of those patents. FDA approval of
October 2003, the Group filed an action against West-ward
that ANDA is stayed until the earlier of August 2007 or resolution of
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the same district court for infringement of
the patent infringement action. The case is progressing through the
the Group’s patents related to an injectable presentation of Zofran.
discovery stage.
Both the Dr Reddy disintegrating tablet case and the West-ward case
Valtrex were consolidated with the earlier Dr Reddy case.
In May 2003, the Group commenced an action in the US District
Prior to the trial both Reddy-Cheminor and West-ward withdrew their
Court for the District of New Jersey against Ranbaxy Laboratories,
challenge to the compound patent. The trial over infringement and
alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for valaciclovir,
validity of the Group’s method of use and process patents was
the active ingredient in Valtrex. That patent expires in 2009. The
completed in June 2004 and closing arguments were heard in May
defendant has filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification the
2005 but as of the date of this report no decision has been
Group’s compound patent was invalid or not infringed. In August
announced.
2004, Ranbaxy filed a motion for partial summary judgment on
grounds that the patent was invalid for being in ‘public use’ more In March 2002, the Group filed a similar action against Teva
than one year before the filing of the patent application and the Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. in the US District Court for the District of
Group filed a motion that the patent was not invalid on those Delaware alleging infringement of the two method of use patents for
grounds.In March 2005, the court ruled in the Group’s favour that ondansetron. Teva had certified invalidity or non-infringement of the
the patent was not invalid on those grounds. Discovery is substantially two method of use patents. Teva did not challenge the compound
completed. patent. The trial judge ruled in the Group’s favour, upholding the
validity of the method of use patents. Following an appeal by Teva to
Wellbutrin XL
the CAFC, the parties reached a settlement agreement, the terms of
In December 2004, Biovail commenced actions in the US District Court
which are confidential.
for the Central District of California against Anchen Pharmaceuticals
and in the US District Court for the Southern District of Florida against In January 2003, the Group commenced an action against Kali
Abrika Pharmaceuticals, in each case alleging infringement of Biovail Laboratories (now Par Pharmaceutical Company) in the US District
formulation patents for Wellbutrin XL. In April 2005, Biovail filed an Court for the District of New Jersey involving orally disintegrating
action in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania Zofrantablets. The trial judge denied Kali’s summary judgment motion
against Impax Laboratories for infringement of the same patents. and granted the Group’s summary judgment motions in June 2005
Those patents expire in 2018. Each of Anchen, Abrika and Impax had and July 2005, affirming the validity of the Group’s method of use
filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification of invalidity or non- patents and holding that Kali’s proposed generic product would
infringement of the Biovail patents. The Group is the licensee under infringe those patents. Kali has filed a notice of appeal with the CAFC
those patents. A hearing on Abrika’s motion for summary judgment from that ruling. As of the date of this report no hearing date for that
was heard in November 2005 but as of the date of this report no appeal has been announced.
decision has been announced. A trial date for Biovail’s action against
In June 2003, the Group commenced an action in the US District
Anchen has been set for 12th September 2006. The Group is not a
Court for the District of New Jersey against the Faulding
party to any of those actions. In September 2005, Biovail commenced
Pharmaceutical Company (now Mayne Pharma Inc.) alleging
actions in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York
infringement of the two method of use patents for ondansetron.
against Watson Laboratories alleging infringement of the Biovail
Faulding did not challenge the compound patent. That case, as of the
formulation patents. The Group remains a third party counterclaim
date of this report, has been stayed pending decisions in the
defendant based on listing activities associated with the FDA Orange
Reddy/West-ward case.
Book.
Additional actions remain pending against generic distributors which
In December 2005, Andrx Pharmaceuticals filed an action against the
are asserting that their products do not infringe the Group’s patent
Group in the US District Court for the Southern District of Florida,
for a reduced crystal size of ondansetron, which expires in March
alleging that the manufacture, importation and sale of the 150 mg
2012 taking into account the extension for paediatric exclusivity, but
Wellbutrin XLproduct infringes a patent issued to Andrx in June 2005
which are not asserting invalidity or non-infringement of the Group’s
and asking for treble damages, attorneys’ fees and that the Group and
compound patents or emesis use patent.
others acting in concert with it be enjoined. The case is in its early
stages.
GSK Annual Report 2005
159
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Legal proceedings continued The federal cases have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation
proceeding in the US District Court for the District of Washington. The
Productliability
judge responsible for those proceedings has denied class certification
Paxil
and struck all class allegations in the federal personal injury and
The Group has received lawsuits and claims filed on behalf of patients
consumer refund class actions. Class certification has been denied in
alleging that they have suffered symptoms on discontinuing treatment
California state court and a Pennsylvania state court putative class
with Paxil(paroxetine). Separately, the Group has received lawsuits and
action has been dismissed, leaving no putative class actions pending
claims that patients who had commenced Paxiltreatment committed
against the Group in this litigation. A substantial number of cases in
or attempted to commit suicide and/or acts of violence. There are also
which the Group or other manufacturers are defendants have reached
private consumer lawsuits alleging that the Group concealed and
trial in state and federal courts. Manufacturers have for the most part
misrepresented data from paediatric clinical trials of Paxil.
received favourable outcomes at trial.
The Group has received lawsuits filed in state and federal courts in the Baycol
USA and Canada on behalf of thousands of plaintiffs, including
In August 2001, Bayer AG withdrew Baycol(cerivastatin sodium)
purported class actions, alleging that paroxetine (the active ingredient
worldwide in light of reports of adverse events, including deaths,
in Paxil) is addictive and causes dependency and withdrawal reactions.
involving rhabdomyolosis. GSK had participated in the marketing of
Plaintiffs sought remedies including compensatory, punitive and
Baycolin the USA pursuant to a co-promotion agreement with Bayer
statutory damages and the cost of a fund for medical monitoring. In
which was the licence holder and manufacturer of the product.
2003, a federal judge in the US District Court for the Central District
of California denied class action certifications for a nationwide class Following the withdrawal, Bayer and GSK have been named as
and a California statewide class as to cases filed in federal court in that defendants in thousands of lawsuits filed in state and federal courts
district. Subsequently, on petition from plaintiffs’ counsel all federal in the USA on behalf of both individuals and putative classes of former
court cases were transferred to that District Court for consolidation Baycolusers. A number of the suits allege that the plaintiffs have
in Multidistrict Litigation (MDL). In January 2006, the Group concluded suffered personal injuries, including rhabdomyolosis, from the use of
settlement of more than 90% of the pending claims based on Baycol. Others claim that persons who took Baycol, although not
symptoms on discontinuing Paxiltreatment. Most of the pending injured, may be at risk of future injury or may have suffered economic
purported class actions are being dismissed as part of the settlement. damages from purchasing and using Baycol. Plaintiffs seek remedies
The Group did not, as part of the settlement, admit any liability with including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages and creation
respect to the allegations in any of the suits. Litigation in respect of of funds for medical monitoring.
the balance of the lawsuits, including a purported class action in
GSK and Bayer Corporation, the principal US subsidiary of Bayer AG,
California state court, continues.
have signed an allocation agreement under which Bayer Corporation
The Group has received numerous claims and lawsuits alleging that has agreed to pay 95% of all settlements and compensatory damages
treatment with Paxil has caused homicidal or suicidal behaviour judgments with each party retaining responsibility for its own
exhibited by users of the product. None of these are or purport to be attorneys’ fees and any punitive damages. The federal cases have
class actions. In January 2005, the FDA approved a black box warning been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the US
aboutsuicidal thoughts or behaviourin paediatric patients and other District Court for the District of Minnesota. Numerous cases are
strengthened warnings for selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) scheduled for trial in state and federal courts during 2006. To datetwo
products, including Paxil, as a class. statewide class actions have been certified – a medical monitoring
case in Pennsylvania and a Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business
Avandia
Practices Act case in Illinois. The medical monitoring action was
The Group has received lawsuits and claims filed in state and federal
dismissed by the court on summary judgment. Another class action,
courts in the USA on behalf of numerous patients alleging that
in which GSK was not named as a defendant, has been certified in
rosiglitazone (the active ingredient in Avandia) has caused congestive
Oklahoma. A substantial number of claims for death or serious injury
heart failure or liver damage. None of the cases purports to be a class
have been settled and many others alleging muscle aches and pains
action. Most of the cases are in their early stages.
have been voluntarily or involuntarily dismissed.
Phenylpropanolamine
Following a report from the Yale Haemorrhagic Stroke Project that
found a suggestion of an association between first use of
phenylpropanolamine (PPA) decongestant and haemorrhagic stroke,
the Group and most other manufacturers have voluntarily withdrawn
consumer healthcare products in which PPA was an active ingredient.
Since the PPA product withdrawal the Group has been named as a
defendant in numerous personal injury and class action lawsuits filed
in state and federal courts alleging personal injury or increased risk of
injury from use of products containing PPA and unfair and deceptive
business practices. Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory
and punitive damages and refunds.
GSK Annual Report 2005
160
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Legal proceedings continued Sales andmarketing andregulation
Marketing andpromotion
Fen-Phen
In February 2004, GSK received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s
In 1997, the FDA became aware of reports of cardiac valvular
office in Colorado regarding the Group’s sales and promotional
problems in individuals for whom fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine
practices relating to nine of its largest selling products for the period
alone or in combination with phentermine was prescribed as part of
from January 1997 to the present. In particular the government has
a regimen of weight reduction and requested the voluntary
inquired about alleged promotion of these drugs for off-label uses as
withdrawal of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine from the market.
well as Group sponsored continuing medical education programmes,
The reports of cardiac valvular problems and the subsequent
other speaker events, special issue boards, advisory boards, speaker
withdrawal of those products fromthe market spawned numerous
training programmes, clinical studies, and related grants, fees, travel
product liability lawsuits filed against the manufacturers and
and entertainment. Although the original subpoena issued from the
distributors of fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine and phentermine. As
US Attorney’s office in Colorado, the scope of the inquiry is
one of a number of manufacturers of phentermine, the Group
nationwide. The Group is co-operating with the investigation and
remains a defendant in approximately two hundred of several
providing the requested information. The Group had earlier responded
thousand lawsuits that were filed in various state and federal district
to an October 2002 letter from the FDA’s Division of Drug Marketing,
courts in the USA against the Group and other defendants.
Advertising and Communication requesting information on the
Most of the lawsuits seek relief including some combination of Group’s alleged promotion of Wellbutrin SRfor off-label use.
compensatory and punitive damages, medical monitoring and refunds
In June 2005, the Group and other pharmaceutical manufacturers
for purchases of drugs. In 1997, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
received a letter from the Senate Finance Committee in which the
Litigation issued an order consolidating and transferring all federal
Committee expressed concern that educational grants were being
actions to the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
improperly used to promote drug products and requesting that each
That court approved a global settlement proposed by defendant
company provide detailed information and documents about its use
Wyeth, which sold fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. The settlement,
of educational grants. In January 2006, the Group and the same
subsequently approved by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, does not
manufacturers received a second letter from the Committee asking
include any of the phentermine defendants, including the Group.
for additional information on the Group’s internal grant approval
Individual plaintiffs may elect to opt out of the class settlement and
process, grants to medical/physician/professional organizations,
pursue their claims individually and tens of thousands of plaintiffs
academic institutions or state agencies to support journal articles and
have elected to do so. Wyeth continues to settle individual state court
other publications and grants to patient education or advocacy
cases before trial and the Group continues to be dismissed from
groups. The Group is co-operating in the Committee’s investigation
lawsuits as they are settled by Wyeth.
and providing the requested information.
Thimerosal
On 22nd February 2006, the FDA approved an ANDA filed by Roxane
GSK, along with a number of other pharmaceutical companies, has
Laboratories for a generic form of Flonasenasal spray and denied two
been named as a defendant in numerous individual personal injury
citizens petitions that had been filed by the Group concerning
lawsuits in state and federal district courts in the USA alleging that
regulatory criteria that should be applied in determining whether
thimerosal, a preservative used in the manufacture of vaccines, causes
proposed generic products are bioequivalent to, and have the same
neurodevelopmental disorders and other injuries, including autism.
quality control standards as,Flonase. On 23rd February the USDistrict
Three of the cases are purported class actions although there has
Court for the District of Maryland granted a temporary restraining
been no determination whether any of those cases will be permitted
order suspending the FDA’s approval of the Roxane ANDAfor ten
to proceed as a class action. A number of purported class actions in
days. The Group will file a motion for a preliminary injunction to
other jurisdictions have been withdrawn or dismissed. Plaintiffs seek
continue the interim relief granted in the temporary restraining order
remedies including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages
and will request a ruling on such motion before the temporary
and the cost of a fund for medical monitoring and research. As of the
restraining order (as it may be extended for up to an additional ten
date of this report there are no cases scheduled for trial in 2006.
days) expires.
Lotronex
In February 2003, the Verona Public Prosecutor commenced a criminal
Following the voluntary withdrawal of Lotronex in the USA in
investigation into GSK’s sales and marketing practices in Italy. Specific
November 2000 a number of lawsuits have been filed against the
areas of investigation include medical education programmes, clinical
Group in state and federal district courts, including individual personal
studies and congresses as well as the interaction between GSK
injury actions and purported class actions asserting product liability
representatives and physicians. Similar issues are being investigated by
and consumer fraud claims. Plaintiffs seek remedies including
the Bari public prosecutor. The USSecurities and Exchange
compensatory, punitive and statutory damages. The class previously
Commission (SEC)staff has initiated an informal investigation into
certified in West Virginia has been decertified and the action has been
the allegations. The Group is co-operating withall theseinvestigations.
dismissed. A large number of claims brought following the withdrawal
have now been settled. Lotronexwas reintroduced in the USA in2002 In February 2006, the Group received a subpoena from the SEC in
subject to a risk management planimposing additional protections respect of the Group’s participation in the United Nations Oil for Food
around the prescribing and dispensing of Lotronex. Programme. The Group is co-operating with the SEC and providing
documents responsive to the subpoena.
GSK Annual Report 2005
161
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Legal proceedings continued Paxil/Seroxat
Following announcement of the New York State Attorney General’s
Average wholesale price
officeofthe state’s lawsuit, subsequently settled in August 2004,
GSK has responded to subpoenas from the Office of the Inspector
alleging failure to disclose data on the use of Paxilin children and
General of the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
adolescents, similar cases, some of which purport to be class actions,
the US Department of Justice and the states of Texas and California
have been filed in state and federal and Canadian courts by private
in connection with allegations that pharmaceutical companies,
plaintiffs. The Group is responding to discovery requests in those cases.
including GSK, have violated federal fraud and abuse laws such as the
Federal False Claims Act (and, with respect to Texas and California, In the UK an investigation remains pending by the UK Medicines and
comparable state laws) as a result of the way ‘average wholesale price’ Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to determine
(AWP) was determined and reported for certain drugs and the way whether the Group has complied with its pharmacovigilence
the Medicare and Medicaid programs reimburse for those drugs. In obligations in reporting data from clinical trials for Seroxat/Paxilin
September 2005, the Group reached a civil settlement with the US children and adolescents.
Department of Justice, the US Attorney for the District of
Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site
Massachusetts and the Office of the Inspector General for HHS. The
Following FDA inspections in October 2003 and November 2004
Group agreed to pay the government a civil settlement of $149
which resulted in observations of possible deficiencies in
million. As part of the settlement the corporate integrity agreement
manufacturing practices at the Group’s manufacturing facility in Cidra,
which the Group signed in April 2003 in connection with a prior
Puerto Rico, in March 2005 the FDA halted distribution of supplies of
government investigation of Medicaid rebate issues was amended to
Paxil CR and Avandamet due to manufacturing issues. The FDA
address issues raised in the course of this investigation.
observations related to certain aspects of production controls, process
Subsequent to the initial subpoenas, several states through their validation and laboratory investigations.
respective attorneys general and several counties in New York state
The Cidra site is engaged in tableting and packaging for a range of
filedcivil lawsuits in state and federal court against GSK and several
GSK products – primarily for the US market – including Paxil, Paxil CR,
other drug companies. The actions claim, on behalf of the states as
Coreg, Avandiaand Avandamet. In April 2005, the Group reached
payers and on behalf of in-state patients as consumers, damages and
agreement with the FDA on a Consent Decree. The Consent Decree
restitution due to AWP-based price reporting for an undefined set of
provides for an independent expert to review manufacturing
pharmaceutical products covered by the states’ Medicaid programs.
processes at the site for compliance with FDA Good Manufacturing
In addition, private payer class action lawsuits have been filed against
Practice (GMP) requirements. As provided in the Consent Decree, the
GSK in several federal district and state courts. All the federal cases
Group provided a report to the FDA on the deficiencies identified in
have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the
this review, setting out a corrective plan and timetable for completion.
US District Court for the District of Massachusetts. In August 2005,
FDA inspectors recently conducted a general GMP inspection and
the judge in that MDL proceeding granted in part and denied in part
follow-up to the Group’s report. In January 2006, the FDA issued a
the private-payer plaintiffs’ motion for class certification, thereby
Form 483, listing five observations that were made during the
narrowing the scope of the class claim. Fact discovery in that
inspection to which the Group responded in February. Those
proceeding closed as to the Group at the end of August 2005 and
observations were consistent with the findings of the independent
expert discovery is under way. Discovery is proceeding in some of the
expert and effectively already included as part of the Group’s
suits filed by state attorneys general in state courts.
remediation plan for the site. The Group remains fully committed to
Nominal pricing working co-operatively with the FDA to address any issues in a timely
The Group responded to two letter requestsfrom the USSenate fashion. The Group has resumed manufacture of products at the site.
Committee on Finance, dated April 2004 and February 2005, for
No financial penalties have been imposed under the Consent Decree.
documents and information relating to the nominal price exception
The Consent Decree allows for potential future penalties up to a
to the best price reporting requirements under the Medicaid Drug
maximum of $10 million a year if the Group fails to meet the terms
Rebate Program. There has been no further activity in connection with
of theDecree.
this inquiry by the Committee as to the Group since September 2005.
In May 2004,the Group was advised by the US Department of Justice The Group was also required to post a bond to ensure that product
that they are investigating certain of the Group’s nominal pricing previously seized by the FDA was appropriately destroyed or
arrangements to determine whether those arrangements qualify reconditioned. The Group has met all the requirements of the bond,
under the exception to the best price reporting requirements or violate which expires in March 2006.
civil statutes or laws. The Group is co-operating in thatinvestigation
In April 2005, the Group received a subpoena from the USAttorney’s
and has provided documents and information to the Department of
Office in Boston requesting production of records regarding
Justice regarding nominal pricing arrangements for a number of the
manufacturing at the Cidra site covering the same type of information
Group’s products.
as that collected by the USgovernment in Puerto Rico in 2003.
GSK Annual Report 2005
162
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Legal proceedings continued Relafen
In August 2001, the US District Court for the District of Massachusetts
Anti-trust
ruled the Group’s patent for nabumetone (Relafen) invalid for
Paxil/Seroxat
anticipatory art and unenforceable on the grounds of inequitable
In the paroxetine patent infringement actions brought by the Group
conduct. In August 2002, the CAGC issued a decision affirming the
as described under ‘Intellectual property’ above, Apotex, Alphapharm,
District Court judgment of invalidity but declining to rule on the
BASFand Sumike have filed anti-trust and unfair competition
judgment of inequitable conduct.
counterclaims against the Group in the USDistrict Court for the
Eastern District ofPennsylvania based on allegations that the Group Following the District Court decision, anti-trust claims alleging
monopolised a ‘market’ forPaxilby bringing allegedly sham patent competitive injury and overcharges were filed by Teva and Eon
litigation and allegedly abusing the regulatory procedures for the Pharmaceuticals, generic manufacturers of nabumetone, by
listing of patents in the FDAOrange Book. Whilst the Apotex matter purported classes of direct and indirect purchasers and payers and by
remains in the discovery stage, the three other actions have been individual retail chains. All aspects of this litigation have been
stayed. concluded with the exception of an appeal taken by certain indirect
purchasers to the trial judge’s order giving final approval to the
In November 2000, the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) staff
settlement with that class. The appeal is pending before the US Circuit
advised the Group that they were conducting a non-public
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.
investigation to determine whether the Group was violating Section
5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by ‘monopolizing or Canadian importation
attempting to monopolize’ the market for paroxetine hydrochloride The Group, along with eight other pharmaceutical companies,has
by preventing generic competition to Paxiland requested the Group been named in seven purported class action lawsuits. Following the
to submit certain information in connection with that investigation. Group’s actions in 2003 to reduce illegal importation of prescription
In October 2003 the FTC closed its investigation on the basis of its drugs from Canada, the lawsuits alleged that the companies entered
finding that no further action was warranted. into an unlawful conspiracy to prevent Canadian pharmacies from
selling their products to US customers. Those lawsuits were
Following public reference to the FTC investigation regarding Paxil,
consolidated into one action before the US District Court for the
purported class actions were filed in the US District Court for the
District of Minnesota. The Group’s motion to dismiss the consolidated
Eastern District of Pennsylvania on behalf of indirect purchasersbased
action was granted by the court and that decision was appealed to
on allegations similar to those in the anti-trust counterclaims brought
the US Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. As of the date
by Apotex. Similar actions were filed by the City of New York in the
of this report no date for oral argument had been announced.
Eastern District of Pennsylvania and by indirect purchasers in Florida,
California and Minnesota. The Pennsylvania class actions have been In relation to the same matter, the Minnesota state attorney general
settled and the class settlements have been approved, although has filed a civil investigative demand and, subsequently, a complaint
certain objectors have appealed the approval of the indirect purchaser alleging that the Group has violated state anti-trust and commercial
settlement. The City of New York action has been settled, the action laws. The Group has filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. Oral
in Minnesota and one of the California actions have been dismissed argument on that motion was completed in November 2005 but as
and the Florida action and another California action have been stayed. of the date of this report no decision has been announced.
The Group has also settled similar threatened claims by a group of
The Group has also been named as a defendant, along with thirteen
chain drug stores and has conditionally settled threatenedclaims by
other drug companies, in a state court action in California, in which
state attorneys general, but it remains to be seen how many states
the plaintiffs, independent pharmacies, allege that the defendants
will join in the settlement.Similar class actions have been filed in
unlawfully conspired to keep prices artificially high in the USA to the
provincial courts in Canada on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers.
detriment of the plaintiffs. The parties are involved in extensive
All those cases are in their early stages.
discovery. A trial date has been set for 25th September 2006.
In October 2005, the Competition Directorate of the European Wellbutrin SR
Commission initiated an inspection concerning allegations that the
In December 2004, and January and February 2005, lawsuits, several
Group has abused a dominant position in the marketplace concerning
of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the US District
enforcement of its intellectual property rights, litigation surrounding
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the Group on
regulatory approvals and marketing of Seroxatin Europe. The Group
behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of Wellbutrin SR. The
is co-operating fully with the Commission.
complaints allege violations of US anti-trust laws through sham
litigation and fraud on the patent office by the Group in obtaining and
enforcing patents covering Wellbutrin SR. The complaints follow the
introduction of generic competition to Wellbutrin SRin April 2004
after district and appellate court rulings that a generic manufacturer
did not infringe the Group’s patents. Oral argument on the Group’s
motion to dismiss was completed in February 2006 but as of the date
of this report no decision has been announced.
GSK Annual Report 2005
163
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Legal proceedings continued
Commercial and corporate
Relenza
In May 2004, Biota Holdings Limited filed a complaint in the Victorian
Supreme Court in Australia alleging that the Group had failed tofulfil
its development, promotion and production obligations for zanamivir
(Relenza) under the terms of the licence agreement between the
Group and Biota. Biota is seeking substantial cash damages. The
Group believes that it has adhered to its obligations under the licence
agreement. The parties are involved in extensive discovery.
Securities class action
In September 2005, attorneys representing a purported class of
purchasers of GSK shares and American Depositary Shares (ADSs)
filed a second amended securities class action complaint against the
Group in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York
alleging that the Group violated US securities laws through failure to
disclose unfavourable clinical data from studies on Paxil,
misrepresentation of the remaining patent protection for Paxiland
Augmentinand violation of the Federal False Claims Act on the basis
of the Group’s recent AWP settlement with the government. The
Group has filed a motion to dismiss.
Environmental matters
GSK has been notified of its potential responsibility relating to past
operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain sites,
primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the subject of
litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state
governments for waste disposal site remediation costs and tort actions
brought by private parties.
GSK has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
approximately 28 sites, of which 14 appear on the National Priority
List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund).
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of
hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to
reimburse the government for cleanup costs. In most instances, GSK
is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste although there
are a few sites where GSK is involved as a current or former operator
of the facility. Although Superfund provides that the defendants are
jointly and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are
frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste
disposed of at the site by the generator. GSK’s proportionate liability
for cleanup costs has been substantially determined for about 20 of
the sites referred to above.
GSK’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. While the cost
of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over time,
be substantial, GSK routinely accrues amounts related to its share of
the liability for such matters.
Tax matters
Pending tax matters, including disclosure of the tax liability of £2.3
billion(2004 – £1.8billion),are described in Note12, ‘Taxation’.
GSK Annual Report 2005
164
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFDirectors’ statements of responsibility
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation to Going concern basis
the company’s financial statements
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
The Directors are: expectationthat the company has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Forthis reason, they
•responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting
continue to adopt the going concern basis inpreparing the financial
records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial
statements.
position of the company at any time and from which financial
statements can be prepared to comply with the Companies
The Combined Code
Act1985
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles of
•required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial
period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Reporting Council, asdescribed under ‘Corporate governance’ on
company as at the end of the financial period and ofthe profit or
pages 27 to 36, and has complied with its provisions except as
loss for that period
described on pages 35 and 36.
•responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the
internalcontrol and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the
auditors haveconsidered the Directors’ statement of compliance in
assets of the company and for preventing and detecting fraud and
relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified
other irregularities.
for theirreview.
The balance sheet for the year ended 31st December 2005, and
supporting notes are set out on pages167to170of this report.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements,
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates
asnecessary; applicable accounting standards have been followed,
and the financial statements have been prepared on the going Sir Christopher Gent
concern basis. Chairman
1st March 2006
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report (page 166).
The Annual Report 2005 is published in hard-copy printed form and
made available on the website. The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the website in
accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements. Access to the website is
available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be
different.
Directors’ remuneration
The Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 54 sets out the
remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on
Directors’ remuneration and other disclosable information relating to
Directors and officers and their interests. It has been prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and complies with Section
B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
GSK Annual Report 2005
165
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GlaxoSmithKline plcGSK Annual Report 2005
166
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2005 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
comprise the balance sheet,and the related notes. These parent on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
company financial statements have been prepared under the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
as having been audited. audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates
and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of
company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2005.
are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently applied
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and adequately disclosed.
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company financial
information and explanations which we considered necessary in
statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part
Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’
of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from
Responsibilities.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements or error. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report, Report to be audited.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
Opinion
company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the
In our opinion:
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.We do not, in giving
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or •the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view,
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31st December
in writing. 2005; and
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company •the parent company financial statements and the part of the
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you
if, in our opinion, the Directors’ Report is not consistent with the
parent company financial statements, if the company has not kept
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
London
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and
1st March2006
other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it isconsistent with the audited parent company
financial statements. The other information comprises onlythejoint
statement by the Chairman and Chief Executive, the financial
summary, description of business, the corporate governance
statementand the operating and financial review and prospects.We
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent
company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to
any other information.Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
at31st December 2005
2004
2005 (restated)
Notes £m £m
Investmentin subsidiary companies 18,727 18,616
Fixed assets D 18,727 18,616
Debtors E 237 218
Cash at bank 5 22
Current assets 242 240
Creditors: amounts due within one year F (8,862) (6,825)
Net current liabilities (8,620) (6,585)
Net assets 10,107 12,031
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital G 1,491 1,484
Share premium account G 549 304
Other reserves H 902 767
Profit and loss account H 7,165 9,476
Equity shareholders’ funds 10,107 12,031
Approved by the Board on1st March2006
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2005
167
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GlaxoSmithKline plcGSK Annual Report 2005
168
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
at31st December 2005
APresentation of the financial statements Taxation
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
Description of business
tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global
balance sheet date.
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery,
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and by reason of timing differences which have originated but not reversed
health-related consumer products. by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only recognised to
the extent that they are considered recoverable against future taxable
Preparation of financial statements
profits.
The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with UK
generally accepted accounting principles (UKGAAP) and with UK Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected
accounting presentation as at 31st December 2005, with comparative to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected
figures as at 31st December 2004. to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
As permitted by s.230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss
CNew accounting policies
account of the company is not presented in this Annual Report.
The Accounting Standards Board (ASB) issued Financial Reporting
Accounting convention and standards
Stanard (FRS)20 ‘Share Based Payments’ in April 2004. Although the
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost
company does not incur a charge under this standard, the issuance
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting standards.
by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over the company’s
Accounting principles and policies options, represents additional capital contributions by the company
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in subsidiaries results with
accepted accounting principles requires management a corresponding increase in shareholders equity. The additional capital
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts contribution is based on the fair value of the grant issued allocated
of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts
TheASB issuedFRS21 ‘Events after the balance sheet date’ in May
could differ from those estimates.
2004. This standard replacedStatement of Standard Accounting
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the Practice 17 ‘Accounting for post balance sheet events’ and the main
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and described effect of this change is to prohibit the recording of a provision for a
in Note B. proposed dividend where the dividend is declared after the balance
sheet date. FRS21 is applicable for accounting periods beginning on
BAccounting policies or after 1st January 2005. Therefore final dividends are now only
recognised in the profit and loss account when shareholders have
Foreign currency transactions
approved such amount and interim dividends are only recognised
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling
when paid.
on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by a
forward exchangecontract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are During the year the company also adopted FRS 23 ‘The Effects of
translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, or at Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates’, FRS25 ‘Financial Instruments:
the forward rate. Disclosure and Presentation’, FRS26 ‘Financial Instruments:
Measurement’, and FRS28 ‘Corresponding Amounts’. The adoption
Dividends paid and received
of these standards has not had a material impact on the company’s
Dividends paid and received are included in the accounts in the period
balance sheet.
in which the related dividends are actually paid or received.
Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past
event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
estimated.
Investments in subsidiary companies
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any provision
for permanent diminution in value.Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
at 31st December 2005
DFixed assets
2004
2005 (restated)
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc 17,888 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited – 24
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (one) Limited 18 18
17,906 17,930
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 821 686
18,727 18,616
Subsequent to the year-end the company formed a new subsidiary, GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited, and sold the entire share holding in
GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc to it. GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited issued new shares to the company as consideration.
EDebtors
2005 2004
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Corporate tax 127 110
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 110 108
237 218
FCreditors
2004
2005 (restated)
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Dividends payable 4 4
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 8,857 6,821
Other creditors 1 –
8,862 6,825
GShare capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2004 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2005 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2004 5,949,463,628 1,487 264
Issued under share option schemes 6,300,203 2 40
Purchased and cancelled (18,075,000) (5) –
At 31st December 2004 5,937,688,831 1,484 304
Issued under share option schemes 25,162,425 7 245
At 31st December 2005 5,962,851,256 1,491 549
31st December 31st December
2005 2004
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options 221,293 276,954
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 3,815,856 3,785,358
At 31st December 2005, of the issued share capital,167,436,200shares were held in the ESOP Trust, 142,779,678 shares were held as Treasury
shares and5,652,635,378shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GlaxoSmithKline plc
GSK Annual Report 2005
169GSK Annual Report 2005
170
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GlaxoSmithKline plc
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
at 31st December 2005
Other Profit and
HReserves reserves loss account Total
(restated) (restated) (restated)
£m £m £m
At1stJanuary 2004,as previously reported 76 8,905 8,981
Prior year adjustment – implementation of FRS20 476 – 476
Prior year adjustment – implementation of FRS 21 – 1,328 1,328
At1stJanuary 2004 552 10,233 10,785
Profit attributable to shareholders – 2,719 2,719
Dividends to shareholders – (2,476) (2,476)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 5 (201) (196)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – (799) (799)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 210 – 210
At 31st December 2004 767 9,476 10,243
Profitattributable to shareholders – 1,079 1,079
Dividends to shareholders – (2,390) (2,390)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – (1,000) (1,000)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 135 – 135
At 31st December 2005 902 7,165 8,067
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £1,079million (2004 – £2,719 million), which after dividends of £2,390million (2004
– £2,476 million), gave a retainedlossof £1,311million (2004 – profit £243 million). After the cost of shares purchased and cancelled of
£nil(2004 – £201 million)andshares purchased and held as Treasury shares of £1,000million (2004 – £799million), the profit and loss
account reserve at 31st December 2005 stood at £7,165million (2004 – £9,476 million), of which £4,096million is unrealised (2004 –
£4,096 million).NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Investor information
This section includes the financial record presenting historical
information analysed in accordance with current reporting practice.
The transition date to IFRS for GSK is 1st January 2003. Therefore, the
2005, 2004 and 2003 information included in the Five Year Record
is in accordance with IFRS. The 2002 and 2001 information is in
accordance with UKGAAP.
To provide a link between IFRS and UK GAAP,2003information is
presented also under UKGAAP. The accounting policies used in the
preparation of the UKGAAP information are disclosed in the 2004
Annual Report. Information prepared under IFRS is not directly
comparable with information prepared under UK GAAP.
The Fiveyearrecord also presents information in accordance with US
GAAP.
This section also discusses shareholder return, in the form of dividends
and share price movements, and provides other information for
shareholders.
Financial record
Quarterly trend 172
Five year record 178
Shareholder information 182
Taxation information for shareholders 186
GSK Annual Report 2005
171Financial record
Quarterly trend
GSK Annual Report 2005
172
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
An unaudited analysis is provided by quarter of the Group results in sterling for the financial year 2005. The analysis comprises statutory results
and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area.
Income statement 12 months 2005 Q4 2005
£m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Turnover–Pharmaceuticals 18,661 8 9 5,108 10 14
– Consumer Healthcare 2,999 2 4 799 1 5
Total turnover 21,660 7 8 5,907 8 13
Cost of sales (4,764) 8 9 (1,298) 8 10
Selling, general and administrative expenditure (7,250) – 1 (2,040) (2) –
Research and development expenditure (3,136) 8 8 (968) 11 13
Other operating income 364 32
Operating profit 6,874 16 19 1,633 20 32
Finance income 257 85
Financecosts (451) (125)
Share of after tax profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated undertakings 52 13
Profit on disposal of interests in associates – –
Profit before taxation 6,732 13 16 1,606 11 21
Taxation (1,916) (455)
Tax rate % 28.5% 28.3%
Profitafter taxation for the period 4,816 17 20 1,151 31 44
Profit attributable to minority interests 127 29
Profit attributable to shareholders 4,689 1,122
Earnings per share 82.6p 18 21 19.8p 33 47
Diluted earnings per share 82.0p 19.6pFinancial record
continued
GSK Annual Report 2005
173
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Q3 2005 Q2 2005 Q1 2005
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
4,709 10 12 4,505 6 6 4,339 6 4
762 3 6 741 3 3 697 2 1
5,471 9 11 5,246 6 6 5,036 5 4
(1,184) 6 7 (1,155) 10 11 (1,127) 9 9
(1,884) 13 14 (1,681) (6) (6) (1,645) (3) (5)
(803) 15 15 (702) 1 1 (663) 2 1
183 3 146
1,783 14 19 1,711 13 12 1,747 18 17
67 56 49
(113) (115) (98)
16 10 13
– – –
1,753 16 21 1,662 9 8 1,711 18 17
(500) (473) (488)
28.5% 28.5% 28.5%
1,253 15 20 1,189 8 7 1,223 17 15
46 31 21
1,207 1,158 8 6 1,202 17 16
21.3p 16 20 20.4p 10 8 21.1p
21.1p 20.2p 21.0pFinancial record
continued
GSK Annual Report 2005
174
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Pharmaceutical turnover – total Group
Q4 2005 Q3 2005 Q2 2005 Q1 2005
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 1,407 16 21 1,235 13 16 1,214 13 12 1,198 12 11
Seretide/Advair 851 23 29 737 20 22 725 22 21 690 22 20
Flixotide/Flovent 174 1 4 151 3 7 159 2 2 154 – –
Serevent 87 – 2 79 (6) (4) 85 (9) (9) 79 (11) (11)
Flixonase/Flonase 171 13 20 166 12 14 148 13 11 171 12 9
Central Nervous System 886 1 6 806 (5) (3) 769 (12) (12) 758 (15) (17)
Seroxat/Paxil 158 (35) (35) 142 (44) (42) 152 (47) (46) 163 (43) (44)
Paxil IR 122 (15) (15) 118 (20) (18) 126 (33) (33) 122 (36) (36)
Paxil CR 36 (64) (63) 24 (77) (76) 26 (73) (73) 41 (57) (59)
Wellbutrin 217 25 32 192 9 11 167 (11) (13) 163 (23) (26)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 24 (26) (20) 23 (52) (49) 13 (81) (83) 32 (75) (76)
Wellbutrin XL 193 36 44 169 31 32 154 34 32 131 56 49
Imigran/Imitrex 188 1 6 180 2 3 162 3 3 167 – (3)
Lamictal 228 19 26 210 20 22 216 28 26 195 30 27
Requip 50 57 56 42 41 45 34 21 17 30 15 15
Anti-virals 697 11 15 664 9 11 634 7 7 603 9 7
HIV 406 5 9 399 5 7 386 6 5 363 6 4
Combivir 148 (3) 1 147 – 2 148 6 5 140 2 1
Trizivir 77 – 3 77 (5) (3) 75 (13) (14) 74 (7) (9)
Epivir 62 (18) (15) 65 (13) (11) 68 (11) (12) 66 (6) (7)
Ziagen 34 (16) (11) 33 (20) (21) 36 (6) (3) 33 (12) (13)
Retrovir 8 (35) (27) 12 9 9 10 (4) 9 11 8 10
Agenerase, Lexiva 33 59 57 31 66 72 26 72 73 22 >100 >100
Epzicom/Kivexa 44 >100 >100 34 >100 – 23 >100 >100 17 – –
Herpes 224 17 22 210 16 17 195 8 7 197 16 13
Valtrex 190 23 30 179 20 22 162 13 12 164 28 23
Zovirax 34 (8) (8) 31 (4) (3) 33 (11) (11) 33 (20) (20)
Zeffix 42 20 24 37 9 12 37 7 12 29 – (3)
Anti-bacterials 405 – 3 349 (2) – 348 (10) (9) 417 (1) (1)
Augmentin 170 (3) – 149 (6) (4) 155 (14) (13) 192 (6) (6)
Augmentin IR 142 2 4 127 (1) 2 129 (3) (3) 154 10 11
Augmentin ES, XR 28 (20) (18) 22 (29) (29) 26 (44) (59) 38 (40) (41)
Zinnat/Ceftin 54 (6) (4) 41 (4) (2) 40 (19) (17) 62 3 5
Metabolic 387 12 19 396 21 24 393 17 16 319 22 19
Avandia 289 26 35 299 29 33 323 27 25 243 27 23
Avandamet 46 (41) (37) 56 (5) (5) 29 (43) (43) 44 11 7
Bonviva/Boniva 11 >100 >100 3 – – 4 – 0 – – –
Vaccines 420 17 20 399 20 22 322 15 16 248 3 4
Hepatitis 113 (1) 4 121 18 20 116 10 10 94 4 4
Infanrix/Pediarix 121 17 22 125 31 32 102 18 19 83 9 9
Oncology and emesis 271 12 18 262 5 7 248 6 5 235 9 6
Zofran 229 14 21 215 6 7 204 7 6 189 8 5
Hycamtin 25 2 4 26 (2) – 23 (8) (8) 25 7 4
Cardiovascular and urogenital 366 26 31 343 44 48 312 43 42 310 57 55
Coreg 159 29 38 154 39 40 125 13 11 135 50 44
Levitra 10 (26) (17) 9 (20) (18) 11 35 22 10 (39) (41)
Avodart 39 71 70 36 98 >100 28 >100 >100 26 >100 >100
Arixtra 8 >100 >100 7 >100 >100 5 – – 4 – –
Fraxiparine 55 24 28 49 >100 >100 55 – – 52 – –
Vesicare 5 – – 4 – – 1 – – 3 – –
Other 269 (11) (8) 255 8 11 265 7 7 251 (2) (3)
Zantac 64 (11) (7) 61 (8) (8) 60 (15) (14) 59 (13) (13)
Total 5,108 10 14 4,709 10 12 4,505 6 6 4,339 6 4
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.Financial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover – USA
Q4 2005 Q3 2005 Q2 2005 Q1 2005
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 733 21 29 651 16 17 605 21 18 591 12 8
Seretide/Advair 493 26 34 417 20 22 397 34 31 380 25 20
Flixotide/Flovent 72 4 13 65 8 10 64 1 (2) 61 1 (3)
Serevent 29 – 7 25 (17) (17) 26 (27) (28) 24 (30) (33)
Flixonase/Flonase 134 20 28 139 16 17 113 15 13 120 – (5)
Central Nervous System 585 3 9 517 (6) (5) 471 (17) (19) 478 (18) (22)
Seroxat/Paxil 32 (73) (70) 21 (83) (82) 30 (80) (79) 50 (64) (66)
Paxil IR – (100) (100) 1 (98) (94) 6 (88) (88) 11 (76) (77)
Paxil CR 32 (67) (66) 20 (80) (80) 24 (75) (74) 39 (59) (61)
Wellbutrin 212 26 33 187 10 11 164 (12) (14) 160 (23) (26)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 20 (23) (20) 19 (54) (54) 11 (83) (85) 30 (76) (77)
Wellbutrin XL 192 35 43 168 30 32 153 33 32 130 56 48
Imigran/Imitrex 138 (1) 6 131 2 3 112 5 3 123 2 (2)
Lamictal 163 35 44 145 35 37 140 38 35 120 38 32
Requip 29 88 93 23 62 77 15 25 15 13 14 8
Anti-virals 346 11 19 333 7 8 305 5 3 301 16 11
HIV 203 2 9 198 (1) – 187 (1) (2) 178 8 3
Combivir 74 (2) 6 71 (3) (3) 70 4 1 68 4 –
Trizivir 44 6 16 43 (8) (9) 40 (18) (18) 39 (4) (9)
Epivir 22 (35) (31) 22 (39) (37) 24 (37) (38) 25 (20) (24)
Ziagen 14 (24) (18) 13 (34) (35) 15 (20) (17) 13 (24) (28)
Retrovir 1 (78) (75) 5 7 – 4 (9) – 4 6 –
Agenerase, Lexiva 20 28 33 20 43 54 16 37 33 14 >100 >100
Epzicom/Kivexa 28 – – 24 – – 18 – – 15 – –
Herpes 132 29 39 123 23 24 107 15 10 114 33 28
Valtrex 131 31 42 121 24 26 106 15 12 112 36 30
Zovirax 1 (20) (67) 2 (47) (33) 1 6 (50) 2 (51) (33)
Zeffix 3 7 – 3 11 – 3 17 50 3 7 –
Anti-bacterials 74 (18) (13) 56 (24) (21) 55 (37) (38) 76 (29) (32)
Augmentin 35 (33) (30) 29 (34) (31) 29 (45) (45) 46 (39) (41)
Augmentin IR 12 (46) (37) 9 (38) (36) 7 (31) (36) 12 (18) (20)
Augmentin ES, XR 23 (25) (26) 20 (32) (29) 22 (44) (52) 34 (43) (46)
Zinnat/Ceftin 4 30 100 2 >100 100 1 (66) (50) 3 (2) (25)
Metabolic 245 4 12 268 22 24 267 18 15 215 21 16
Avandia 209 27 36 226 35 38 248 35 31 181 28 22
Avandamet 25 (64) (61) 39 (24) (25) 15 (65) (65) 34 (6) (11)
Bonviva/Boniva 10 – – 3 – – 4 – – – – –
Vaccines 95 14 20 123 82 84 66 2 (1) 54 2 (2)
Hepatitis 35 (6) 3 43 26 26 33 (3) (6) 26 (13) (16)
Infanrix, Pediarix 37 (10) (8) 48 44 45 32 2 – 28 20 17
Oncology and emesis 207 18 25 199 8 9 184 10 7 171 12 7
Zofran 179 20 28 167 8 10 154 12 9 139 10 5
Hycamtin 17 8 13 18 2 6 14 (10) (13) 17 10 6
Cardiovascular and urogenital 217 35 44 205 43 44 168 21 19 176 43 36
Coreg 158 30 39 153 40 42 124 13 11 133 52 46
Levitra 9 81 80 7 >100 >100 10 >100 >100 9 (12) (18)
Avodart 21 81 91 20 >100 100 12 70 71 12 >100 100
Arixtra 6 >100 100 4 >100 >100 3 – – 2 – –
Fraxiparine – – – – – – – – – – – –
Vesicare 5 – – 4 – – 1 – – 3 – –
Other 19 (16) (10) 17 (21) (19) 16 (32) (33) 17 (19) (23)
Zantac 17 (4) 6 15 (16) (12) 13 (35) (35) 13 (19) (24)
Total 2,521 12 19 2,369 11 12 2,137 3 1 2,079 4 (1)
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
GSK Annual Report 2005
175
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
GSK Annual Report 2005
176
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Pharmaceutical turnover – Europe
Q4 2005 Q3 2005 Q2 2005 Q1 2005
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 436 11 10 388 8 10 420 5 6 416 10 12
Seretide/Advair 277 21 19 246 17 18 259 9 10 251 19 21
Flixotide/Flovent 49 (3) (2) 42 (6) (2) 48 1 – 49 (4) 2
Serevent 39 (4) (3) 38 (3) (3) 43 1 5 40 (7) (5)
Flixonase/Flonase 13 (2) (7) 14 (4) 17 19 4 – 14 (2) –
Central Nervous System 168 (8) (8) 171 (6) (6) 181 (6) (5) 184 (7) (5)
Seroxat/Paxil 40 (23) (27) 49 (19) (16) 46 (30) (31) 52 (29) (27)
Paxil IR 40 (23) (27) 49 (19) (16) 46 (30) (30) 52 (29) (27)
Paxil CR – – – – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin 1 31 – – – – 1 35 – – – –
Wellbutrin IR, SR 1 31 – – – – 1 35 – – – –
Wellbutrin XL – – – – – – – – – – – –
Imigran/Imitrex 38 9 9 36 1 – 37 (1) 3 33 (6) (6)
Lamictal 51 (10) (11) 50 (10) (7) 62 11 11 63 20 24
Requip 19 27 27 17 22 21 17 17 21 15 16 15
Anti-virals 194 3 3 194 13 14 199 9 9 186 – 2
HIV 152 5 5 154 15 17 157 11 11 144 1 3
Combivir 53 (9) (10) 58 5 7 60 6 7 56 (2) –
Trizivir 30 (5) (6) 30 – – 32 (5) (6) 31 (10) (9)
Epivir 29 (8) (3) 30 8 11 33 14 14 30 2 3
Ziagen 11 (22) (31) 13 (7) (7) 16 1 7 14 (4) (7)
Retrovir 4 (17) – 4 5 – 4 (6) – 4 (7) –
Agenerase, Lexiva 11 >100 >100 10 >100 >100 8 >100 >100 7 >100 >100
Epzicom/Kivexa 14 >100 >100 9 >100 >100 4 – – 2 – –
Herpes 34 1 (3) 35 8 13 34 (3) (3) 36 (4) (3)
Valtrex 24 8 4 25 10 14 24 5 4 25 13 14
Zovirax 10 (13) (17) 10 2 11 10 (17) (17) 11 (29) (27)
Zeffix 6 (21) – 4 (11) (33) 7 6 (40) 4 (4) (20)
Anti-bacterials 184 2 1 157 3 4 155 (7) (6) 222 13 17
Augmentin 80 3 3 68 7 8 70 (7) (7) 98 16 20
Augmentin IR 77 2 1 66 6 6 67 (9) (8) 95 13 17
Augmentin ES, XR 3 43 50 2 79 100 3 55 >100 3 >100 >100
Zinnat/Ceftin 29 (14) (15) 19 (14) (14) 22 (22) (19) 42 10 14
Metabolic 56 50 51 49 28 36 45 45 50 40 31 33
Avandia 30 19 20 27 9 13 29 23 22 26 24 29
Avandamet 16 >100 >100 13 >100 >100 10 >100 >100 6 >100 >100
Bonviva/Boniva 1 >100 >100 – – – – – – – – –
Vaccines 169 9 9 162 7 8 147 26 27 114 10 14
Hepatitis 54 (3) (4) 60 16 18 62 18 22 48 13 14
Infanrix/Pediarix 54 16 15 57 35 39 51 34 34 40 12 14
Oncology and emesis 39 (5) (7) 40 (5) (5) 42 (6) (5) 43 – 2
Zofran 30 (4) (6) 29 (7) (9) 32 (8) (6) 33 (1) 3
Hycamtin 6 (14) (25) 7 (3) – 7 (5) – 7 – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 105 12 9 103 55 63 104 98 96 103 >100 >100
Coreg – – – – – – – – – – – –
Levitra 1 (82) (83) 1 (76) (80) 1 (77) (80) 1 (79) (80)
Avodart 15 52 50 14 75 100 14 >100 >100 12 >100 >100
Arixtra 2 77 100 2 >100 100 2 – – 2 – –
Fraxiparine 46 19 21 43 >100 >100 45 – – 45 – –
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Other 85 (22) (21) 76 15 15 80 8 10 80 2 4
Zantac 17 (9) – 16 (7) (6) 15 (23) (17) 16 (18) (20)
Total 1,436 4 4 1,340 9 11 1,373 9 10 1,388 10 12
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.Financial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover – International
Q4 2005 Q3 2005 Q2 2005 Q1 2005
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 238 12 18 196 18 26 189 6 10 191 18 16
Seretide/Advair 81 17 29 74 26 37 69 12 17 59 11 11
Flixotide/Flovent 53 – – 44 7 13 47 3 9 44 4 2
Serevent 19 8 6 16 13 23 16 2 – 15 30 36
Flixonase/Flonase 24 (8) – 13 (5) (7) 16 13 14 37 >100 >100
Central Nervous System 133 10 13 118 2 7 117 8 9 96 (11) (12)
Seroxat/Paxil 86 9 9 72 – 1 76 5 7 61 (13) (15)
Paxil IR 82 7 8 68 (1) (1) 74 5 6 59 (15) (17)
Paxil CR 4 47 33 4 35 45 2 12 100 2 74 100
Wellbutrin 4 (26) – 5 (25) – 2 >100 >100 3 (28) (25)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 3 (51) (25) 4 (42) (21) 1 >100 >100 2 (41) (50)
Wellbutrin XL 1 >100 >100 1 – – 1 >100 >100 1 88 –
Imigran/Imitrex 12 (4) – 13 – 8 13 (1) – 11 (1) –
Lamictal 14 12 27 15 20 25 14 18 27 12 9 9
Requip 2 34 – 2 24 – 2 16 – 2 13 100
Anti-virals 157 20 25 137 10 14 130 10 12 116 8 7
HIV 51 12 19 47 7 12 42 16 17 41 13 14
Combivir 21 16 24 18 (1) 6 18 15 13 16 4 7
Trizivir 3 (21) (40) 4 4 11 3 (6) (25) 4 (6) –
Epivir 11 (2) – 13 19 18 11 17 22 11 18 22
Ziagen 9 19 80 7 (4) (13) 5 23 25 6 14 20
Retrovir 3 (10) – 3 20 50 2 8 (33) 3 40 50
Agenerase,Lexiva 2 66 – 1 1 8 2 46 – 1 >100 >100
Epzicom/Kivexa 2 >100 >100 1 – – 1 – – – – –
Herpes 58 6 9 52 6 6 54 3 8 47 1 (2)
Valtrex 35 13 13 33 10 14 32 14 19 27 11 8
Zovirax 23 (3) 5 19 (1) (5) 22 (10) (4) 20 (9) (13)
Zeffix 33 32 32 30 14 25 27 6 4 22 (1) –
Anti-bacterials 147 11 17 136 3 6 138 5 8 119 1 (2)
Augmentin 55 22 31 52 – 2 56 10 12 48 13 9
Augmentin IR 53 22 29 52 1 6 55 11 12 47 13 9
Augmentin ES, XR 2 20 100 – – – 1 (22) – 1 (6) –
Zinnat/Ceftin 21 1 5 20 2 5 17 (9) (11) 17 (10) (6)
Metabolic 86 17 25 79 11 16 81 3 8 64 20 19
Avandia 50 29 43 46 15 24 46 16 24 36 26 29
Avandamet 5 (14) – 4 (8) – 4 (8) – 4 83 100
Bonviva/Boniva – – – – – – – – – – – –
Vaccines 156 30 36 114 – 3 109 11 15 80 (4) (5)
Hepatitis 24 18 26 18 9 13 21 11 11 20 13 18
Infanrix/Pediarix 30 98 >100 20 (1) (5) 19 11 19 15 (13) (12)
Oncology and emesis 25 (1) 14 23 1 5 22 (1) 5 21 6 5
Zofran 20 – 11 19 5 12 18 2 6 17 6 6
Hycamtin 2 20 100 1 (29) (50) 2 (4) – 1 4 –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 44 22 33 35 22 30 40 48 54 31 39 41
Coreg 1 (35) – 1 (29) (50) 1 (29) – 2 (29) (33)
Levitra – (99) (100) 1 (90) (67) – – – – – –
Avodart 3 >100 50 2 >100 >100 2 >100 100 2 – –
Arixtra – – – 1 >100 >100 – – – – – –
Fraxiparine 9 55 80 6 >100 >100 10 – – 7 – –
Vesicare – – – – – – – – – – – –
Other 165 (4) 1 162 9 14 169 12 12 154 (2) (3)
Zantac 30 (15) (17) 30 (5) (6) 32 3 – 30 (6) (3)
Total 1,151 13 18 1,000 8 13 995 9 12 872 5 4
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
GSK Annual Report 2005
177
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The transition date to IFRS for
GlaxoSmithKline is 1st January 2003. Therefore, the 2005, 2004 and 2003 information included in the Fiveyearrecord is in accordance with
IFRSas adopted for use in the European Union.For GSK there are no differences between IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union and
full IFRS as published by the International Accounting Standards Board.The 2002 and 2001 information is in accordance with UKGAAP.
To provide a link between IFRS and UK GAAP, 2003 information is also presented under UK GAAP. The accounting policies used in the
preparation of the UK GAAP information are disclosed in the 2004 Annual Report. Information prepared under IFRS is not directly comparable
with information prepared under UK GAAP.
The Fiveyearrecord also presents information in accordance with US GAAP.
Turnover by business segment – IFRS 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 18,661 17,100 18,114
Consumer Healthcare 2,999 2,886 2,956
21,660 19,986 21,070
Turnover by business segment – UKGAAP 2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 18,181 17,995 17,205
Consumer Healthcare 3,260 3,217 3,284
21,441 21,212 20,489
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area – IFRS 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Respiratory 5,054 4,394 4,390
Central nervous system 3,219 3,462 4,446
Anti-bacterials 1,519 1,547 1,800
Anti-virals 2,598 2,359 2,345
Metabolic 1,495 1,251 1,077
Vaccines 1,389 1,194 1,121
Oncology and emesis 1,016 934 1,000
Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,331 932 770
Others 1,040 1,027 1,165
18,661 17,100 18,114
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area – UKGAAP 2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Respiratory 4,417 3,987 3,537
Central nervous system 4,455 4,511 4,007
Anti-bacterials 1,815 2,210 2,604
Anti-virals 2,349 2,299 2,128
Metabolic 1,079 960 875
Vaccines 1,123 1,080 948
Oncology and emesis 1,001 977 838
Cardiovascular and urogenital 771 661 591
Others 1,171 1,310 1,677
18,181 17,995 17,205
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic area – IFRS 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
USA 9,106 8,425 9,410
Europe 5,537 5,084 5,050
International:
Asia Pacific 1,324 1,161 1,138
Japan 854 769 751
Middle East, Africa 746 669 693
Latin America 651 581 598
Canada 443 411 474
International 4,018 3,591 3,654
18,661 17,100 18,114
GSK Annual Report 2005
178
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic area – UKGAAP 2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
USA 9,410 9,797 9,037
Europe 5,114 4,701 4,561
International:
Asia Pacific 1,140 1,100 1,047
Japan 753 712 741
Middle East, Africa 693 652 611
Latin America 597 606 790
Canada 474 427 418
International 3,657 3,497 3,607
18,181 17,995 17,205
Pharmaceutical turnover in 2005, 2004 and 2003 includes co-promotion income.
Consumer healthcare turnover – IFRS 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
OTC medicines 1,437 1,400 1,472
Oral care 943 913 915
Nutritional healthcare 619 573 569
2,999 2,886 2,956
Consumer healthcare turnover – UKGAAP 2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
OTC medicines 1,556 1,586 1,603
Oral care 1,082 1,052 1,106
Nutritional healthcare 622 579 575
3,260 3,217 3,284
Financial results – IFRS 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Turnover 21,660 19,986 21,070
Operating profit 6,874 5,756 6,050
Profit before taxation 6,732 5,779 5,954
Profitafter taxation 4,816 4,022 4,308
Basic earnings per share (pence) 82.6 68.1p 72.3p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 82.0 68.0p 72.1p
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,674 5,736 5,806
Diluted 5,720 5,748 5,824
Return on capital employed (%) 99.7 100.2 116.6
Financial results – UKGAAP 2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Turnover 21,441 21,212 20,489
Operating profit 6,376 5,569 4,701
Profit before taxation 6,313 5,524 4,484
Profitafter taxation 4,584 4,060 3,158
Basic earnings per share (pence) 77.1p 66.5p 49.9p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 76.9p 66.3p 49.5p
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,806 5,912 6,064
Diluted 5,824 5,934 6,116
Return on capital employed (%) 120.8 110.6 75.6
Return on capital employed is calculated as statutory profit before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed over the year.
GSK Annual Report 2005
179
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 21,660 19,986 21,117 21,212 20,489
Net income/(loss) 3,336 2,732 2,420 413 (143)
Basic net income/(loss) per share (pence) 58.8p 47.6p 41.7p 7.0p (2.4)p
Diluted net income/(loss) per share (pence) 58.3p 47.5p 41.6p 7.0p (2.4)p
The information presented in accordance with US GAAP is derived from financial information prepared under IFRS, as adopted for use in the
European Union, for 2003-2005 and from UK GAAP for 2001-2002.
The information below presents US GAAP net income/(loss) and net income/(loss) per share as if the results for the yearended 31st December
2001 were adjusted to reverse the amortisation expense for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, that is, as if SFAS142 had also applied
in those years.
2001
£m
Adjusted net income/(loss) 1,456
Adjusted basic net income/(loss) per share (pence) 24.0p
Adjusted diluted net income/(loss) per share (pence) 23.8p
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars
for sterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Average 1.81 1.84 1.63 1.51 1.44
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month during the year.
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2006 2006 2005 2005 2005 2005
High 1.78 1.79 1.77 1.78 1.79 1.84
Low 1.73 1.74 1.72 1.71 1.75 1.76
The noon buying rate on 24th February 2006 was £1= US$1.74.
Number of employees
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
USA 23,822 23,782 24,036 23,527 23,613
Europe 43,999 44,679 44,559 46,028 46,508
International:
Asia Pacific 15,991 16,109 18,373 17,289 18,364
Japan 3,098 2,965 2,842 2,952 2,985
Middle East, Africa 5,682 5,134 3,400 5,973 6,344
Latin America 5,664 5,603 5,916 6,876 7,800
Canada 2,472 1,747 1,793 1,854 1,856
International 32,907 31,558 32,324 34,944 37,349
100,728 100,019 100,919 104,499 107,470
Manufacturing 31,615 31,143 32,459 35,503 36,849
Selling 44,393 44,646 43,978 43,994 44,499
Administration 9,225 9,193 9,550 10,378 11,081
Research and development 15,495 15,037 14,932 14,624 15,041
100,728 100,019 100,919 104,499 107,470
The number of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are
employed and managed by GlaxoSmithKline on a contract basis.
GSK Annual Report 2005
180
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
Balance sheet – IFRS
2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m
Non-current assets 14,021 12,164 11,622
Current assets 13,177 10,780 10,298
Totalassets 27,198 22,944 21,920
Current liabilities (9,511) (8,564) (8,314)
Non-current liabilities (10,117) (8,443) (8,008)
Total liabilities (19,628) (17,007) (16,322)
Net assets 7,570 5,937 5,598
Equity
Shareholders’equity 7,311 5,724 4,917
Minority interests 259 213 681
7,570 5,937 5,598
Balance sheet – UK GAAP
2003 2002 2001
£m £m £m
Fixedassets 8,575 8,752 8,984
Current assets 12,625 10,749 10,423
Totalassets 21,200 19,501 19,407
Current liabilities (8,471) (8,724) (9,398)
Non-current liabilities (6,925) (6,130) (4,664)
Total liabilities (15,396) (14,854) (14,062)
Net assets 5,804 4,647 5,345
Equity
Shareholders’equity 5,059 3,840 4,483
Minority interests 745 807 862
5,804 4,647 5,345
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
£m £m £m £m £m
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
Total assets 57,218 55,841 56,400 57,671 61,341
Net assets 34,599 34,429 34,861 35,729 40,969
Long-term borrowings (5,293) (4,374) (3,640) (3,085) (2,116)
Shareholders’ equity 34,282 34,042 34,116 34,922 40,107
GSK Annual Report 2005
181
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIShareholder information
Share price
2005 2004 2003
£ £ £
At 1st January 12.22 12.80 11.92
High during the year 15.44 12.99 13.90
Low during the year 11.75 10.42 10.00
At 31st December 14.69 12.22 12.80
Increase/(Decrease) 20% (5)% 7%
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices derived
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List. The company’s
share priceincreased by20%in 2005 from a price of £12.22 at 1st
January 2005 to £14.69at 31st December 2005. This compares with
anincreasein the FTSE 100 index of17% during the year.
Market capitalisation
The market capitalisation, based on shares in public issue, of
GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December 2005 was £85billion. At that date
GSK was thefourthlargest company by market capitalisation on the
FTSE index.
SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured
Loan Stock 1990/2010
The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may require
SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at par, i.e. £1 for
every £1 of loan stock held, on the first business day of March, June,
September and December. Holders wishing to redeem all or part of
their loan stock should complete the notice on the back of their loan
stock certificate and return it to the registrar, to arrive at least 30 days
before the relevant redemption date.
Taxation
General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of share
ownership is set out in 'Taxation information for shareholders' on
page186.
Dividends
GlaxoSmithKline pays dividends quarterly. Details of the dividends
declared,the amount and the payment dates are given in Note14.
Dividends per share
The table below sets out the dividends per share paid in the last five
years.
Year pence
2005 44.0
2004 42.0
2003 41.0
2002 40.0
2001 39.0
GSK Annual Report 2005
182
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Dividends per ADS
The table below sets out the dividends per ADS paid in US dollars in
the last five years, translated into US dollars at applicable exchange
rates.
Year US$
2005 1.57
2004 1.53
2003 1.39
2002 1.24
2001 1.11
Dividend calendar
Fourth quarter 2005
Ex-dividend date 15th February 2006
Record date 17th February 2006
Payable 6th April 2006
First quarter 2006
Ex-dividend date 10th May 2006
Record date 12th May 2006
Payable 6th July 2006
Second quarter 2006
Ex-dividend date 2nd August 2006
Record date 4th August 2006
Payable 5th October 2006
Third quarter 2006
Ex-dividend date 1st November 2006
Record date 3rd November 2006
Payable 4th January 2007
Internet
Information about the company including details of the share price is
available on GSK’s website at www.gsk.com.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part
of this Annual Report.
Investor relations
Investor Relations may be contacted as follows:
UK
980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5557 / 5558
Fax:+44 (0)20 8047 7807
USA
One Franklin Plaza, PO Box 7929, Philadelphia PA 19101
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
Tel: +1 215 751 4638 outside the USA
Fax:+1 919 315 3344Shareholder information
continued
Analysis of shareholdings
Number of % of total % of total Number of
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2005: accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 139,372 70 1 50,069,101
1,001 to 5,000 45,478 23 2 97,708,958
5,001 to 100,000 12,085 6 3 183,117,826
100,001 to 1,000,000 1,082 1 6 372,632,157
Over 1,000,000 491 – 88 5,259,323,214
Totals 198,508 100 100 5,962,851,256
Held by
Nominee companies 30,696 15 77 4,583,100,614
Investment and trust companies 64 – 1 46,855,187
Insurance companies 16 – – 107,531
Individuals and other corporate bodies 167,730 85 6 363,755,128
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 – 14 826,253,118
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 – 2 142,779,678
Totals 198,508 100 100 5,962,851,256
The Bank of New York’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each ADS represents
two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value.
At 24th February 2006, the number of holders of record of shares in the USA was 1,190 with holdings of 1,543,844 shares, and thenumberof
registered holders of the ADRs was 41,589 with holdings of 415,217,646 ADRs. Certain of these shares and ADRs were held by brokers or
other nominees. As a result the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of beneficial
holders orofthe residence of beneficial holders.
Control of company
As far as is known to the company, it is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
Thecompany does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in control of the company.
Major shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings
At 24th February 2006, the company had received notification of the following interests of 3% or more in the shares in issue, excluding
Treasury shares:
•BNY(Nominees) Limited holds 830,443,108 shares representing 14.26%. These shares are held on behalf of holders of ADRs, which evidence
ADSs.
•Legal &General Investment Management Limited holds 212,219,375 shares representing 3.64%.
•Barclays PLC holds 221,114,143 shares representing 3.80%.
As far as is known to the company, no other person was the owner of 3% or more of the shares in issue, excluding Treasury Shares of the company.
Directors and Officers
The interests of the Directors and Officers of the company, as defined in theCompanies Act 1985, in share options of the company are given
in the Remuneration Report (pages37 to 54).
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting securityholders
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends orother
payments to holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. There are no limitations relating only to non-residents of the
UK under English law or the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right tobe a holder of, and tovote in respect of, the
company’s shares.
Documents on display
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company and other documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection
at the Registered Office of the company.
Publications
In late March 2006 GSK will publish on the website its Corporate Responsibility Report covering performance in areas including community
investment, ethics and integrity, access to medicines, R&D and environment health and safety.
GSK Annual Report 2005
183
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIShareholder information
continued
Nature of trading market Annual General Meeting 2006
The Ordinary Shares of the company were listed on the London Stock The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 17th May 2006
Exchange on 27th December 2000. The shares were also listed on the Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) (inthe form of American Depositary London SW1P 3EE
Shares ‘ADSs’) from the same date.
The Annual General Meeting is the company's principal forum for
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and
communication with private shareholders. In addition to the formal
low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the
business there will be a presentation by the Chief Executive Officer on
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low last reported sales
the performance of the Group and its future development. There will
prices in US dollars for the ADSs on theNYSE.
be opportunity for questions to the Board, and the Chairmen of the
Board's committees will take questions on matters relating to those
GlaxoSmithKline Pence per share committees.
High Low
Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service
Quarter ended 31st March 2006* 1500 1424
should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a
February 2006* 1500 1434
corporate representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding in
January 2006 1496 1424
order to attend and vote at the meeting.
December 2005 1483 1434
November 2005 1544 1429 ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy from
October 2005 1473 1395 The Bank of New York which will enable them to attend the meeting
September 2005 1442 1343 and vote on the business to be transacted. ADR holders may instruct
Quarter ended 31st December 2005 1544 1395 The Bank of New York as to the way in which the shares represented
Quarter ended 30th September 2005 1442 1308 by their ADRs should be voted by completing and returning the voting
Quarter ended 30th June 2005 1377 1201 card provided by the bank in accordance with the instructions given.
Quarter ended 31st March 2005 1318 1175
Quarter ended 31st December 2004 1222 1101 Financial reporting
Quarter ended 30th September 2004 1209 1042
Financial reporting calendar 2006
Quarter ended 30th June 2004 1201 1067
Quarter ended 31st March 2004 1299 1060 Announcement of 1st Quarter Results April 2006
Year ended 31st December 2003 1390 1000 Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results July 2006
Year ended 31st December 2002 1780 1057
Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results October 2006
Year ended 31st December 2001 2032 1626
Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results February 2007
Publication of Annual Report/Review March 2007
US dollars per ADS
High Low
Results Announcements
Quarter ended 31st March 2006* 52.77 50.15
Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
February 2006* 52.15 50.31
and are available on its news service. Shortly afterwards, they are
January 2006 52.77 50.15
issued to the media, are made available on the website and sent to
December 2005 51.97 50.17
the USSecurities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE.
November 2005 53.53 49.16
October 2005 52.39 49.36 Financial reports
September 2005 51.28 49.45 The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not
Quarter ended 31st December 2005 53.53 49.16 needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review. These are
Quarter ended 30th September 2005 51.28 46.47 available from the date of publication on the website.
Quarter ended 30th June 2005 51.40 45.19
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders on the date of
Quarter ended 31st March 2005 50.50 44.48
publication. Shareholders may also elect to receive the Annual Report
Quarter ended 31st December 2004 47.50 41.15
by writing to the company’s registrars. Alternatively shareholders may
Quarter ended 30th September 2004 43.84 39.04
elect to receive notification by email of the publication of financial
Quarter ended 30th June 2004 43.50 39.44
reports by registering on www.shareview.co.uk.
Quarter ended 31st March 2004 46.93 39.38
Year ended 31st December 2003 47.40 32.75 Copies of previous financial reports are available on the website.
Year ended 31st December 2002 50.87 32.86 Printed copies can be obtained from the registrar in the UK and from
Year ended 31st December 2001 57.76 48.80 the Customer Response Center in the USA.
* to24th February 2006
GSK Annual Report 2005
184
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIGSK Annual Report 2005
185
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Shareholder information
continued
Ordinary shares
The company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Registrar
The company’s registrars are:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK
The registrars also provide the following services:
•GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan
•GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account
•GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee
•Shareview service
•Shareview dealing service
Share dealing service
Hoare Govett operate a postal dealing service in the company’s ordinary
shares. It enables investors to buy or sell shares at competitive
commission charges. Further details may be obtained by telephoning
+44 (0) 207 661 6555.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414141
The provision of the details above is not intended to be an invitation
or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share
dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent
financial adviser.
American Depositary Shares
The company’s shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American
Depositary Shares and these are evidenced by American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs), each one of which represents two ordinary shares.
In general, the NYSE’s rules permit the company to follow UK
corporate governance practices instead of those that apply in the
USA, provided that the company explains any significant variations.
This explanation is provided on the company’s website.
ADR programme administrator
The ADR programme is administered by:
The Bank of New York
Shareholder Relations
PO Box 11258, Church Street Station
New York NY 10286-1258
www.adrbny.com
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free
Tel: +1 212 815 3700 outside the USA
Customer Response Center
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
The administrators also provide Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.GSK Annual Report 2005
186
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Taxation information for shareholders
Information for shareholders Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both UK inheritance tax and
US estate or gift tax. The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would
A summary of the main tax consequences for holders of shares and
generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited against tax
ADRs who are citizens or residents of the UK or the USA is set out
payable in the UK.
below. It is not a complete analysis of all the possible tax consequences
of purchase or ownership of these securities. It is intended only as a Stamp duty
general guide. Holders are advised to consult their advisers with UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to certain
respect to the tax consequences of the purchase and ownership of exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate of 0.5%
their shares or ADRs, and the consequences under state and local tax of the purchase price. There is a minimum charge of £5 where a
laws in the USA and the implications of the new UK/US Income Tax stamp duty liability arises.
convention.
US shareholders
This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices at the
date of this report. The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA federal
income tax considerations that may be relevant to a USholder of
The new UK/US Income Tax Convention came into force on 31st
shares or ADRs. This summary only applies to a shareholder that holds
March 2003. The provisions of the new treaty apply for UKtax
shares or ADRs as capital assets, is a citizen or resident of the USA or
purposes from 1st April 2003 (UKCorporation Tax), 6th April 2003
a domestic corporation or that is otherwise subject to United States
(UK Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax) and 1st May 2003
federal income taxation on a net income basis in respect of the shares
(Withholding Taxes). For UStax purposes, the provisions of the new
or ADRs, and is not resident in the UK for UKtax purposes and does
treaty apply from 1st May 2003 (Withholding Taxes) and 1st January
not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that
2004 (all other UStaxes). However, holders of shares or ADRs have
is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
the ability to elect to continue to use the provisions of the previous
treaty for 12 months following the new treaty’s entry into force. An Taxation of dividends
election must be made in advance of the first event to which the new The gross amount of dividends received(without reduction for any UK
treaty would apply. withholding tax) is treated as foreign source dividend income for US
tax purposes. It is not eligible for the dividend received deduction
US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of the
allowed to US corporations. Dividends on ADRs are payable in US
underlying shares for the purposes of the current USA/UK double
dollars; dividends on shares are payable in Sterling. Dividends paid in
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention)
calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends
and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
are received by the holder. Subject to certain exceptionsfor short-
amended (the Code).
term or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be
The following analysis deals with dividends paid after 6th April 1999 subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of
when Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) was abolished. qualified dividends received before 2009. Shareholders are advised to
consult their own Tax Advisers to confirm their eligibility.
UK shareholders
Taxation of capital gains
Taxation of dividends Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one ninth. will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other
As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax on dividend disposal of shares or ADRs.
income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK resident individual
Estate and gift taxes
shareholders. Tax credits are, however, no longer repayable to
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
Taxation of capital gains
Stamp duty
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal of
UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable
shares or ADRs. They may also be entitled to indexation relief and
on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or depository
taper relief on such sales. Indexation relief is calculated on the market
at a rate of 1.5% of their price (if issued), the amount of any
value of shares at 31st March 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent
consideration provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if
purchases from the date of such purchase. Indexation relief for
transferred for no consideration).
individual shareholders ceased on 5th April 1998. Taper relief is
available to individual shareholders who hold or are deemed to hold No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK stamp
shares for at least three years before they are sold. duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided that the
instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside
Inheritance tax
the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR would be payable
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer
at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer. Any sale of the
of shares or ADRs. Tax may be charged on the amount by which the
underlying shares would result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the
value of the shareholder's estate is reduced as a result of any transfer
case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%. There is a minimum charge of
by way of gift or other disposal at less than full market value.
£5 where a stamp duty liability arises.GSK Annual Report 2005
187
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay the
charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) An advance payment of UK tax that was made when dividends are paid. No direct US equivalent.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two ordinary shares.
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Ordinary Shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Creditors Accounts payable.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Debtors Accounts receivable.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of
the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share based employee incentive plans.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
bymaking off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as brands, licences, patents, know-how and marketing
rights purchased from outside parties.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Statement of recognised income and expense Statement of comprehensive income.
Stocks Inventories.
Subsidiary undertaking An affiliate in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.GSK Annual Report 2005
188
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Index
Page Page
Accounting policies 89 Independent Auditors’ report 83
Accounting presentation 55,89 Intellectual property 25,157
Achieve commercial and operational excellence 06,14 Interest rate risk management 70
Acquisitions and disposals 119 Internal control framework 33
Annual General Meeting 32 Inventories 105
Assets held for sale 106 Investments in associates and joint ventures 104
Associates and joint ventures 97,104 Investor information 171
Be the best place for the best people to do their best work 06,16 Legal proceedings 157-164
Board 28,30 Movements in equity 67,117
Build the best product pipeline in the industry 06,07-13 Net debt 67,114
Cash and cash equivalents 106 New accounting policies and future requirements 92
Combined Code 35,82 Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 44
Commitments 67,122 Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 46,47
Committee reports 34,35,37-54 Notes to the financial statements 89,170
Community investment 18-19 Operating and financial review and prospects 55,80
Consolidated balance sheet 85 Operating profit 95,96
Consolidated cash flow statement 86 Other intangible assets 103,104
Consolidated income statement 84 Other investments 105
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 88 Other non-current assets 20
Consumer Healthcare 10,14,17,23,24,78 Other non-current liabilities 113
Contact details 185 Other operating income 78,95
Contingent liabilities 67,68,114 Other provisions 113
Corporate Executive Team 29 Outlook and risk factors 71-74
Corporate governance 27-36 Pensions and other post-employment benefits 67,107-112
Corporate responsibility 06,18,183 Pharmaceutical turnover 57-61
Critical accounting policies 64 Presentation of the financial statements 89
Description of business 05-26 Principal Group companies 147-149
Dialogue with shareholders 31 Products and competition 20-23
Directors and Senior Management remuneration 44-54 Property, plant and equipment 66,101-102
Directors’ interests 48 Quarterly trend 172-177
Directors’ interests in contracts 54 Reconciliation to US accounting principles 135-146
Directors’ statements of responsibility 82,165 Regulatory environment 24-26
Dividends 63,100,182 Related party transactions 118
Earnings per share 100 Remuneration Report 37-54
Employee costs 96 Report of the Directors 04-80
Employee share schemes 132-134 Responsibility for environment, health and safety 26
Exchange rates 92,180 Risk factors 71-74
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 42,43 Segment information 93-95
Finance costs 56,63,97 Share capital and share premium 116
Finance income 63,97 Share options 49-51,132-134
Financial instruments and related disclosures 123-131 Shareholder information 182-186
Financial position and resources 66-70 Strategy 06
Financial record 172-181 Taxation 63,97-99
Financial statements 81-170 Taxation information for shareholders 186
Financial summary 04 Total Equity 67
Financial trends and ratios 56 Trade and other payables 66,106
Five year record 178-181 Trade and other receivables 66,106
Foreign exchange risk management 70,123 Trademarks 05,26
Global manufacturing and supply 17 Transition to IFRS 150-156
Glossary of terms 187 Treasury policies 69,70
Goodwill 102 US law and regulation 36
Governance and policy 30 World economy 57
IFRS adjustments 150 World market – pharmaceuticals 57
Improve access to medicines 15
Incentive plans 51,52“Discovering important medicines
eradicating diseases, improving
the quality of people’s lives
and making medicines available
to a greater number of people
This is what we do – and what we do matters to people.”
JP Garnier (left) and Sir Christopher Gent (right)Annual Report 2005
Corporate
Website
brochure
About us Meeting global challenges
Our products Commitment to innovation
Your health Access to medicines
Responsibility Therapy areas
In the community Our mission
Research & Development What would A better future
Investors
you like to know
Media centre
Careers about GSK?
www.gsk.com
Corporate
Annual
responsibility
review
report
human being
Access to medicines An interview with
Research and innovation the Chairman and CEO
Ethical conduct Focus on the patient
Annual
Employees The year of the vaccine
Human rights Growing brands
report
Environment Powering performance
Community investment Performance highlights
Business operating review
Summary remuneration report
An interview with Corporate governance
the Chairman and CEO Summary financial statements
Financial summary Shareholder information
Description of business Chairman and CEO’s
Corporate governance closing letter
Remuneration report
Operating and financial review
and prospects
Financial statements
Notes to the financial
statements
Investor information
Do more, feel better, live longer
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road Designed by CGI London.
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
Printed by The Midas Press in the UK. The paper used in the
United Kingdom
production of this document is made from pulps harvested
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues and
www.gsk.com forest thinnings. It is elemental chlorine-free. Do more, feel better, live longer
GlaxoSmithKline
Annual
Report
2005