Annual Report 2006
A human race
Do more, feel better, live longerFinancial summary
Results
2006 2005 Sterling CER% growth*
£m £m % growth 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Turnover 23,225 21,660 7 9 7 1 5 7
Research and development 3,457 3,136
Operating profit 7,808 6,874 14 17 16 – 8 13
Profit before taxation 7,799 6,732
Profit after taxation for the year 5,498 4,816
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,389 4,689
2006 2005
pence pence
Earnings per share 95.5p 82.6p 16 19 18 2 10 13
Diluted earnings per share 94.5p 82.0p
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Dividends per share 48p 44p 48p 44p 42p 41p 40p
Cash flow
2006 2005
£m £m
Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,357 5,958
Capital expenditure 1,590 1,181
Free cash flow 2,623 4,664
Dividends to shareholders 2,598 2,390
Purchase of GSK shares 1,348 999
Net debt 2,450 1,237
Share price
2006 2005
Share price at 31st December £13.44 £14.69
*CER% growth is on an IFRS basis for 2006 and 2005 and a UK GAAP, business performance basis for 2004 and earlier. In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is
the Group’s practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth. This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine
the results of overseas companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. Sterling%
or £% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
Website
GlaxoSmithKline’s website www.gsk.com gives additional information on the Group. Information made available on the website does not constitute part of this
Annual Report.
Notice regarding limitations on Director liability under English Law
Under the UK Companies Act 2006, a new safe harbour limits the liability of Directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the Report of the Directors contained
on pages 2 and 3 and 6 to 82, under English law the Directors would be liable to the company (but not to any third party) if the Report of the Directors contains errors as
a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
Report of the Directors
Pages 2 and 3 and 6 to 82 inclusive consist of a Report of the Directors that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company
law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
The Group's reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including this document and written information released, or oral state-
ments made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give the Group's current expec-
tations or forecasts of future events. An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such
as ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’ and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future oper-
ating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results
of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results. The Group undertakes no obli-
gation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document,
could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under
‘Risk factors’ on pages 44 to 47 of this Annual Report.Review of 2006
Chairman’s and CEO’s summary
Every day we are involved in a race that unites more than 100,000 people
at GSK: in finding new medicines and vaccines that meet unmet medical needs;
in ensuring that patients have access to these new medicines regardless of
their financial circumstances; and in meeting the expectations of our many
stakeholders, including you – our shareholder. It is a race with many stages and
we won’t win them all. But, as we take part, we never forget the real focus of
our efforts: the human race.
2006 was a year of positive achievement for GSK as we continued Our Consumer Healthcare portfolio will also be strengthened in 2007
to make progress on all fronts. Sales growth is coming from an ever- with the launch of ten products, including alli, the first FDA-approved
widening portfolio of fast-growing products that, combined with OTC treatment for weight loss in the USA.
good cost control, has enabled us to deliver a strong financial
Best place to work
performance. We also have very healthy momentum in our pipeline,
We work hard to create a working environment where the best
with ten new products added to our late-stage development efforts
people can do their best work and the results of our biennial employee
in the last 12 months. For all these reasons, we look to the future
opinion survey demonstrated that we are enjoying real success. For
with confidence.
overall satisfaction, GSK scored higher than any of our peers in the
Financial performance and outlook benchmark group of major companies and 90 per cent of managers
Your company delivered a strong financial performance in 2006. are proud to work for GSK.
Turnover of £23.2 billion is an increase of 9 per cent at constant
Playing our part
exchange rates (CER)*. Earnings per share (EPS) were 95.5 pence,
In 2006, our global community investment contributions were valued
with growth of 19 per cent.
at £302 million, equivalent to 3.9 per cent of Group profit before tax.
This performance was driven by sales of key pharmaceutical products This is a significant sum, but such commitment is no less than should
including Seretide/Advair for asthma and chronic obstructive be expected from a company in our industry. We have the capability
pulmonary disease (COPD), the Avandia group of products for and the desire to reach out to patients and to find solutions to
diabetes, Coregfor heart disease, Lamictalfor epilepsy and bipolar healthcare challenges worldwide, helping people do more, feel better
disorder, Valtrexfor herpes, and our vaccines. and live longer.
Although we performed well in a tough environment, the US A human race
political climate together with investor concern over pipeline delays For all our investment in technology, it is our people that make GSK
resulted in our share price ending the year 9 per cent lower than at so different. We could not succeed without their commitment,
1stJanuary 2006. expertise and passion, and we thank them all for their outstanding
efforts in 2006.
Looking ahead, we expect new clinical data to help deliver growth
from Seretide/Advair and the Avandia group of products, and We also thank you, our shareholders, for your continued support
continued good performance from our vaccines business. We plan to during the year, together with our suppliers and business partners
launch new products in both our Pharmaceutical and Consumer who work so hard on our behalf.
Healthcare businesses. In addition, we expect to continue to achieve
Our management team has again performed very well. In the past 12
savings through improved operational efficiency. The combination of
months we welcomed to the Board Dr Moncef Slaoui, our new
new products and enhanced efficiency will help offset the impact of
Chairman of R&D, on 17thMay 2006, DrDaniel Podolsky on 1stJuly
generic competition to Zofranand Wellbutrin XLduring the coming
2006 and Dr Stephanie Burns on 12thFebruary 2007. In addition to
12 months and we expect to deliver 2007 EPS growth of 8 to 10 per
Moncef, the corporate executive team saw two changes. Jennie
cent in CER terms.
Younger left in June 2006 and was succeeded by Duncan Learmouth
Delivering our pipeline for patients as Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and Community
Our pipeline is significant, with 158projects in clinical development Partnerships. Ford Calhoun retired in January 2007 and was
at the end of February 2007. succeeded by Bill Louv as Chief Information Officer. Our best wishes
go to both Jennie and Ford and we thank them for the valuable
Although we had some setbacks during the year, including
skills, great contribution and good humour they brought to their
cancellation of Redonafor diabetes, we have a great ability to reload
roles over the years.
our pipeline. And it is beginning to flow strongly, delivering much-
needed new treatments for patients and opportunities for us. We
now have 31 major product opportunities in phase III development
or registration and we plan to launch five major new pharmaceutical
products in 2007: Tykerbfor breast cancer, Cervarixto prevent cervical
cancer, Allermist/Avamys for allergic rhinitis, Coreg CR for heart Sir Christopher Gent JP Garnier
conditions and Treximafor migraine. Chairman Chief Executive Officer
GSK Annual Report 2006
12006 performance overview
Key performance indicators GSK’s performance and development are
Turnover, earnings per share growth and driven by a number of important strategies
total shareholder return
Strategies
Turnover Optimising the performance of key products
£bn Both thePharmaceutical andConsumerHealthcare businesses
focus on ways to improve the return from the Group’s intellectual
24
property by maximising sales of key products.
23.2
GSK’s activities include:
22
21.7 • achieving worldwide sales force excellence
9%CER
• achieving Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare
20 20.0 growth
marketing excellence
7%CER
• maintaining the highest ethical standards
growth
• improving the cost-effectiveness of operations
2004 2005 2006
Earnings per share
Pence
100
95.5
82.6
80
68.1 19%CER
60 growth
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
18%CER
growth GSK aims to create the best product pipeline in the industry for the
benefit of society. This includes developing a focused strategy to
2004 2005 2006
support the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds
from launch as prescription medicines through to potentially
Total shareholder return
becoming over-the-counter products.
150 GSK measures R&D productivity by the number and level of
innovation of the products it creates, and by theability to address
125 unmet patient needs.
100
Beingthe best place for the best people to do their
best work
75
GSK is committed to creating the best place for the best people to
1/1/04 31/12/04 31/12/05 31/1 2/06
do their best workby:
GSK Total Return Index GSK Pharma Peers Return Index FTSE100 Total Return Index
• recruiting and developing the best people in the industry
Share price • supporting a culture of high reward for high performance
• ensuring good communication and employee involvement
£ US$
• maintaining a diverse and healthy workforce
16 65
15 60
14 55
Improvingaccess to medicines
13 50 GSK is finding innovative ways to bring medicines, vaccines and
12 45 health education to patients in all countries, including those
suffering from epidemics and neglected diseases.
11 40
10 35
1/1/04 31/12/04 31/12/05 31/12/06
UK share price (£) US ADR price (US$)
At 23rd February 2007, the share price was £14.50/$56.92per ADR
GSK Annual Report 2006
2Keydevelopmentsin 2006
• Total turnover grew 9% to £23.2 billion – Pharmaceuticals up 9% to £20.1 billion; Consumer Healthcare up 6% to £3.1 billion
• Top tenPharmaceutical products:
– Seretide/Advair£3,313 million, up 11% – Zofran£847 million, up 3%
– Vaccines products £1,692 million, up 23% – Valtrex£845 million, up 24%
– Avandia group of products £1,645million, up 25% – Coreg£779 million, up 38%
– Lamictal£996 million, up 19% – Imigran/Imitrex£711 million, up 3%
– Wellbutrin£900 million, up 24% – Flixotide/Flovent£659 million, up 5%
• High potentialproductsAvodart, Requip andBonivadelivered combined sales of £579 million
• Top five Consumer Healthcare products:
– Lucozade£301 million, up 14% – Panadol£207 million, up 6%
– Aquafresh£283 million, down 3% – Ribena£169 million, down 1%
– Sensodyne £257 million, up 19%
• Operating margin increased by 1.9 percentage points to 33.6% of turnover
• Continuing financial strength enabled the 2006 dividend to be increased to 48 pence (2005–44 pence)
• A new share buy-back programme of £6 billion over three years was announced
More details on page31.
• InFebruary 2007, GSK had158pharmaceutical and vaccine projects inclinical development, compared with149inFebruary 2006
• 31 major product opportunities were in phase III development or registration (13 NCEs, 6 new vaccines, 12 PLEs), including:
– Cervarix(cervical cancer) – Coreg CR(cardiovascular conditions)
– Tykerb(breast cancer) – Trexima(migraine)
– Allermist (allergic rhinitis) – H5N1 (pandemic ‘flu vaccine)
• Late stage projects terminated included Redonafor type 2 diabetes andbrecanavir for HIV/AIDS
More details on page12.
• The Group’s biennialglobal leadership survey of over 10,000 managers in 2006 showed:
– 91%(2004–91%) of managers believed“people in their department show commitment to performance with integrity”
– 90% (2004–83%) of managers were “proud to be part of GlaxoSmithKline”
– 86% (2004–77%) of managers would “gladly refer a friend or family member to work for GlaxoSmithKline”
• In 2006, 36.3% of the global management population was female (2005–35.5%)
More details on page17.
• Global community investment was valued at £302million,3.9% of profit before tax
• The lymphatic filariasis elimination programme continued with another155million albendazole treatments donated, makingalmost
600million treatments in total
• GSK shipped over 27 million Combivirtablets andnearly 59million Epivirtablets to developing countries at not-for-profit prices.
Approximately 120 million tablets were supplied by generic manufacturers licensed by GSK
• Other international humanitarian product donations totalled £22million
More details on page19.
GSK Annual Report 2006
3History and development of the company Annual Report and Annual Review
GlaxoSmithKline plc is a public limited company incorporated on 6th This report is the Annual Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year
December 1999 under English law. Its shares are listed on the London ended 31st December 2006, prepared in accordance with United
Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. On 27th Kingdom requirements. It was approved by the Board of Directors on
December 2000 the company acquired Glaxo Wellcome plc and 28th February 2007and published on2nd March 2007.
SmithKline Beecham plc, both English public limited companies, by
A summary report on the year, the Annual Review 2006, which is
way of a scheme of arrangement for the merger of the two
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom requirements and
companies. Both Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham were
intended for the investor not needing the full detail of the Annual
major global healthcare businesses.
Report, is produced as a separate document. It includes the joint
GSK plc and its subsidiary and associated undertakings constitute a statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, a
major global healthcare group engaged in the creation, discovery, summary review of operations, summary financial statements and a
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical and summary remuneration report. The Annual Review is issued to all
consumer health-related products. shareholders. The Annual Report is issued to shareholders who have
elected to receive it. Both documents are available on
GSK has its corporate head office in London. It also has operational
GlaxoSmithKline’s corporate website at www.gsk.com.
headquarters in Philadelphia and Research Triangle Park, USA, and
operations in some117countries, with products sold in over140 In this Report ‘GlaxoSmithKline’, the ‘Group’ or ‘GSK’ means
countries. The principal research and development (R&D) facilities are GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings; the ‘company’
in the UK, the USA, Japan, Italy, Spain and Belgium. Products are means GlaxoSmithKline plc; ‘GlaxoSmithKline share’ means an
currently manufactured in some 37 countries. Ordinary Share of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p;American Depositary
Share (ADS) represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
The major markets for the Group’s products are the USA, France,
Japan, the UK, Italy, Germany and Spain. Brand names appearing in italics throughout this report are
trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GlaxoSmithKline or
Business segments
associated companies, with the exception of Baycol and Levitra,
GSK operates principally in two industry segments:
trademarks of Bayer, Boniva/Bonviva, a trademark of Roche, Citrucel,
•Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and vaccines) a trademark of Merrell Pharmaceuticals, Entereg, a trademark of
Adolor Corporation in the USA, Hepsera, a trademark of Gilead
•Consumer Healthcare (over-the-counter medicines, oral care and
Sciences in some countries including the USA, HuMax-CD20 a
nutritional healthcare).
trademark of Genmab, Integrilin, a trademark of Millennium
Pharmaceuticals,Lymphostat B, a trademark of Human Genome
Sciences,Nicoderm, a trademark of Sanofi-Aventis, Pfizer Canada,
Elan, Novartis, Merrell or GlaxoSmithKline,and Vesicare, a trademark
of Astellas Pharmaceuticals in many countries and of Yamanouchi
Pharmaceuticals in certain countries, all of which are used in certain
countries under licence by the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2006
4GSK Annual Report 2006
5
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Contents
Mission Report of the Directors
2006 performance overview 2-3
Our global quest is to improve the quality of human life by
Financialtrends and ratios 6
enabling people to do more, feel better and live longer.
Businessreview 7
Our Spirit Corporate governance 53
Remuneration Report 65
We undertake our quest with the enthusiasm of entrepreneurs,
excited by the constant search for innovation. We value
performance achieved with integrity. We will attain success as a
world class global leader with each and every one of our people
contributing with passion and an unmatched sense of urgency.
Financial statements
Directors’ statements of responsibility 84
Independent Auditors’ report 85
Consolidated income statement 86
Consolidated balance sheet 87
Consolidated cash flow statement 88
Consolidated statement of recognised income
and expense 89
Notes to the financial statements 90
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc 165
Investor information
Financial record 172
Shareholder information 182
Taxation information for shareholders 186
Glossary of terms 187
Index 188
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial trends and ratios
2006 Growth 2005 Growth 2004
£m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m
Turnover–Pharmaceuticals 20,078 9 8 18,661 8 9 17,100
–Consumer Healthcare 3,147 6 5 2,999 2 4 2,886
Total 23,225 9 7 21,660 7 8 19,986
Cost of sales (5,010) 6 5 (4,764) 8 9 (4,360)
Selling, general and administration (7,257) – – (7,250) – 1 (7,201)
Research and development (3,457) 11 10 (3,136) 8 8 (2,904)
Other operating income 307 364 235
Operating profit 7,808 17 14 6,874 16 19 5,756
Profit before taxation 7,799 19 16 6,732 13 16 5,779
Profit after taxation for the year 5,498 17 14 4,816 17 20 4,022
Profit attributable to minority interests 109 127 114
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,389 4,689 3,908
Earnings per share (pence) 95.5p 19 16 82.6p 18 21 68.1p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 94.5p 82.0p 68.0p
Research and development
Pharmaceuticals 3,353 3,030 2,797
Consumer Healthcare 104 106 107
Total 3,457 3,136 2,904
Net finance cost cover
Net finance costs 65 194 186
Cover 121times 36times 32times
Net finance cost cover is profit before tax plus net finance costs, divided by net finance costs.
Tax rate 29.5% 28.5% 30.4%
Borrowings
Net debt 2,450 1,237 1,984
Gearing 25% 16% 33%
The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of total equity.
Exchange rates
The Group, as a multinational business, operates in many countriesand earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies. Its results are reported
inSterling and are affected bymovements in exchange rates betweenSterling and othercurrencies.
Average exchange rates prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary and associated
undertakings and joint ventures intoSterling. Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of those undertakings. The currencies which
most influence these translations are the USdollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
GSK Annual Report 2006
6
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERBusiness review
The business review discusses GSK’s financial and non-financial
activities, resources,developments and performance during 2006
and outlines the trends and factors which are likely to affect its
future development under the following headings:
Optimising theperformance of key products 8
Deliveringtheproductpipeline for patients 9
Beingthe best place for the best people to do their best work 17
Improvingaccess to medicines 18
Corporate responsibility and community investment 19
Global manufacturing and supply 21
Regulatory environment 22
World market 26
Products and competition 27
Financial review 2006 31
Financial position and resources 39
Outlook and risk factors 44
Financial review 2005 48
The ‘2006 performance overview’ on pages 2 and 3 form part of this
business review.
Discussion of the Group’s management structures and corporate
governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance (pages53
to63).
The Remuneration Report gives details of the Group’s policies on
Directors’ remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors and
senior management in 2006 (pages65to82).
The reconciliation to US accounting principles is set out in Note41to
the financial statements.
Accounting presentation
This report is prepared under International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS), as adoptedbythe European Union.GSK has taken
advantage of an exemption which permits financial instruments to be
accounted for and presented on a UKGAAP basis in 2004and only
in accordance with IAS32 and IAS39 from 1st January 2005.
Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates
based on the most recent data from independent external sources,
and where appropriate, are valued inSterling at relevant exchange
rates. Figures quoted for product market share reflect sales by GSK
and licensees.
The Group operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs
costs in many currencies. The results of the Group, as reported in
Sterling, are affected by movements in exchange rates between
Sterling and other currencies. Average exchange rates prevailing
during the period are used to translate the results and cash flows of
overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures
intoSterling. Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of
those undertakings. The currencies which most influence these
translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Group’s practice
to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate (CER) growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to
determine the results of overseas companies inSterling had remained
unchanged from those used in the previous year. CER% represents
growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual
exchange rates.
GSK Annual Report 2006
7
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERGSK Annual Report 2006
8
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Optimising the performance of key products
GSK undertakes a range of activities to maximise the commercial Marketing codes
potential of its intellectual propertyby introducing innovative products, GSK is committed to ethical, responsible and patient-centred
accelerating the process of bringing them to as many markets as marketing. The Group’s Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional
possible, increasing brand recognition and improving access to new Activity policy governs marketing activities and applies to all
medicines. Both the pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare employees, suppliers, contractors and agents. This policy requires
businesses focus on ways to optimise performance of key products that all marketing and promotional activities are based on valid
through a number of initiatives. Some of these are: scientific evidence and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales force excellence This policy is supported by regional marketing practices codes in
GSK’s sales force has always ranked high in surveys with healthcare Europe, GSK’s International region, Japan and the USA. These codes
professionals. Worldwide Sales Force Excellence (WSFE) aims to apply the same ethical standards but reflect differences in market
improve customer satisfaction even further. structures, national healthcare systems and regulations. They
incorporate the principles of industry codes of practice such as the
The time available for physicians to learn about new medicines and
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries Associations, the
clinical studies is precious. Through the WSFE initiative, sales
International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations,
representatives strengthen product knowledge and learn to deliver
Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and Pharmaceutical
patient-specific treatment options more efficiently and more
Research and Manufacturers of America marketing codes.
effectively. Research shows that a sales visit is highly effective when a
representative engages the physician in dialogue around patient types Next Generation Now
and supports the message with visual aids that illustrate clinical results. In 2006, USPharmaceutical businesses created and implemented the
Next Generation Now operating model for advertising agencies.
A single global sales call model has been introduced that focuses on
Design of this model, which aims to improve creativity and productivity
treating the patient through a dialogue about “when” a GSK
and achieve significant cost savings, involved a number of key areas.
medicine is appropriate, “why” it is effective and “how” to administer
As a result professional brand accounts were consolidated under a
it safely. All field staff in GSK’s key marketshavebeen trained in this
single agency, which increased access to the best talent, streamlined
new approach. The entire sales organisation is involved in WSFE to
account management and reduced rates. The team also instituted
bring about a cultural change that raises ethical standards and helps
key changes for agency reviews and created financial parameters and
build long-term, trusting relationships with the healthcare community.
resource guides to improve decision making and processes.
In addition, a dashboard of key performance indicators, a product
knowledge certification process and an effective leadership training Consumer Healthcare marketing excellence
programmehavebeen established. The recent restructuring that placed greater emphasison the brands‘
opportunitiesis now a major factor in the improved performance of
Superior product knowledge is essential in serving the needs of
this business. Through this restructuring, ateam called the Future
healthcare professionals. Physicians rely on GSK to keep them abreast
Group was created to drive the pipelines and marketing programmes
of changes in prescribing information or new clinical studies involving
forglobal brandswith significantsales in multiple markets. Forother
GSKmedicines. As a key goal of WSFE, GSK expanded its Annual
largebrands that have one dominant market, but may be available
Certification program to all countries. Over 30,000 representatives
in several territories, a dedicatedteam driveseach of theselead market
passed certification tests on the pathology, prescribing information
brandsfor their dominant market.The remaining assets, termed
and key messages of their leading products. Scores were consistently
enterprise brands, are locally managed by in-market commercial
around 98%, with many representatives achieving a perfect score.
teams to retain their entrepreneurial spirit and relevance.
Pharmaceutical marketing excellence
Large numbers of patients suffering the effects of disease continue
to be unable to benefit from innovative medicines and treatments.For
example within Europe, around 50% of patients suffering from
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) are diagnosed and of
those, only 60% receive regular maintenance drug therapy.
GSK’s marketing initiative implements programmes to overcome the
barriers to proper diagnosis and treatment, by providing accurate and
balanced information on its products, to allow as many people as
possible to benefit from GSK’s medical advances. While these
programmes are beginning to show effects, more needs to be done
before the societal costs of disease will decrease.GSK Annual Report 2006
9
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
Research and Development – Pharmaceuticals Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the targets of most relevance
in its therapeutic area and building on the lead compounds to produce
Since the merger, GSK R&D has developed one of the most robust
a potential medicine. The fundamental steps in turning a lead
pipelines of potential new medicines in the industry. In 2006
compound into a medicine are optimising it for potency, efficacy and
Pharmaceutical R&D was actively managingover 150projects in
safety and defining the biology in animals and humans so that the
human clinical trials across the globe. Delivering this pipeline to
medicine can be tested for effects in the right patient groups. These
patients safely and efficiently isournumber onegoal.
inventive steps are underpinnedthrough scientific researchand the
Focus on the Patient application of informed judgement to develop creative solutions to the
One objective unites the 15,500 people who work at GSKR&D, and problems and challenges that inevitably arise in discovery and early
that is staying focused on the patient. Itdrives them to discover development.
potential treatments for diseaseand to develop innovative medicines
Once a candidate compound is selected,the CEDDs are responsible
thatoffer truebenefitto patients. Reaching out to and speaking with
for undertaking the clinical studies necessary to demonstrate an effect
patients and their families to understand the impact of disease on
sufficient to declare “proof of concept” – the first indication in
their lives, their work and their communityarean essential part of this.
patients that the new medicine works.Based on the profile of safety
GSK knows patients are waiting, and thefocus on the patient isour
and efficacy a decision is then made on whether to progress the
driver to deliver the best every day.
medicine into late-stage drug development, where large-scale clinical
Pharmaceutical R&D at GSK is organised around the discovery and trials are conducted to confirm the efficacy and safety and gain
development of medicines for patients. Discovery is conducted by regulatory approval to commercialise the product.
Molecular Discovery Research and GSK’s Centres of Excellence for
Duringthe year,19newprojects entered Phase II clinical trials for the
Drug Discovery (CEDDs), and development by GSK’s Medicine
first time.
Development Centres (MDCs). Along the way, many othergroups
provide critical scientific input, conduct important experiments, and GSK is committed to developing clinical science to ensure the
aidin managing the R&D process. Thesegroups are described in more understanding of disease processes in humans and learning as much
detail below. as possible about the medicines in development. The application of
experimental medicine is a major opportunity for the industry to
Discovering potential medicines
optimise the drug discovery process. Advances in clinical imaging are
Two components are needed in thediscoveryofnew medicines –
revolutionising experimental medicine and opening opportunities to
identification of the most important molecular targets that have
visualise the effects of medicines in humans. In 2006, GSK opened the
potential to impact human diseaseand discovery of compounds that
Clinical Imaging Centre (CIC) on the biomedical research campus of
can modulate these targets to alleviate disease in an effective and
Imperial College, London. The new £46 million facility is staffed by
safe way.
clinical investigation research groups working with state-of-the-art
Molecular Discovery Research (MDR) produces the lead compounds magnetic resonanceimaging and positron emission tomography
that mayinteract withtargets which form the basis of drug discovery imaging systems. Facilities include radiochemistry, biology, image
efforts in GSK’sCEDDs. In 2006, MDR progressed over 220 preclinical analysis and neurophysiology laboratories. The formidable capabilities
drug discovery programmesand in so doing performedhundreds of of the CIC are augmented through multiple, global collaborations
assays per week and provided the CEDDs withover 70high-quality with academic imaging centres, established by GSK over the last
new lead compounds. decade.
WhenGSK R&D designed the CEDDs, theyintegrated groups of In addition to the nine CEDDs, GSK also created a Centre of Excellence
scientists and clinicians and organised their work aroundspecific for External Drug Discovery (CEEDD) in 2005. This small team is
disease areas. At no more than 300-400 people,eachCEDDis nimble responsible for delivering compoundsto theproof of concept stage
and entrepreneurial. GSK’snine therapeutically aligned CEDDs, based by establishing and managing long-term strategic collaborations with
in Europe and the USA,are: biotechnology companies, small and medium-sized pharmaceutical
companies and academic institutions. In 2006, the CEEDD established
•Biopharmaceuticals – Stevenage, UK
four newcollaborationsand currently oversees a portfolio of58drug
•Cardiovascular – Upper Merion, USA
discovery projects ranging from target selection through to human
•Infectious Disease –Upper Merion and Research Triangle Park,USA
clinicaltrials.
•Metabolic – Research Triangle Park, USA
•Oncology – Upper Providence, USA Developing medicines for patients
•Macrolide Drug Discovery – Zagreb, Croatia (acquired Pliva Research Preclinical Development (PCD) includes a wide range of activities
Institute in May 2006) throughout the entiremedicinesdevelopment process.In addition,
•Neurology & Gastrointestinal Diseases – Harlow, UK thisfunction is involved in the enhancement of existing products by
•Psychiatry – Verona, Italy devising more convenient formulations. Early in the development
•Respiratory and Inflammation – Stevenage, UK. process, the metabolism and safety of compounds are evaluated in
laboratory animals before testing in humans. The testing required in
animals is highly regulated (see Animals and research, page12).
PCD researchers investigate appropriate dosage forms (for example,
tablets or inhalers) and develop formulations to enhance a drug’s
effectiveness and its ease of use by the patient.GSK Annual Report 2006
10
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Processes and supporting analytical methods for drug synthesis and Safety data are routinely collected throughout development
product formulation and delivery are scaled up to meet increasing programmes and are reported to national and regional regulatory
supply requirements. This leads to the technical transfer of the agencies in line with applicable regulations.
processes and methods to manufacturing. The new product supply
GSK considers its Chief Medical Officer, working with the Global
process, a partnership between R&D and Global Manufacturing and
Safety Board, to be ultimately accountable for oversight of all major
Supply, ensures that a robust product is developed for large-scale
decisions regarding patient safety. The GSKGlobalSafetyBoard is
commercial manufacturing and launch.
responsible internally for approving pivotal studies and investigating
In 2006, GSK redesigned the management of late-stage development any issues related to patient safety arising during the development
by dividing the single large late-stage development organisation into programme.Information from GSK clinical trials is widely and easily
three distinct, empowered entities. The first component, Medicines available at theClinicalTrialRegisteron the website.
Development,is the collection of six therapeutically aligned Medicine
In 2006, GSKformed a dedicated pharmacogenetics group. GSK
Development Centres (MDCs). Each MDC hasultimate accountability
believes that pharmacogenetic research,correlatinggenetic data with
for developing experimental drugs into regulatory-approved
response to medicine, will help its scientists understand how different
medicines for patients. The MDCs are responsible for creating value
people respond to the effects of a medicine, both those
through the execution of full product development plansand ensuring
therapeutically intended and those causing adverse events. R&D is
strong partnerships with the rest of GSK, in particular the CEDDs and
collecting DNA samples, under appropriate patient consent,in clinical
the other late-stage development groups.
studies to identify pharmacogenetic informationwhichmay help
The MDCs are based at the major USA and UK sites and are aligned predict a patient’s response. This information is intended to define
with the following therapeutic areas: patient groups likely to gain benefit from treatment or to suffer a side
effect. Pharmacogenetics promises to provide physicians with
•Cardiovascular/Metabolic
information to help them select the medicine and dose most likely to
•Infectious Diseases including Diseases of the Developing World
benefit thepatient and,in the long run,may help to reduce pipeline
(DDW)
attrition and improve productivity.
•Musculoskeletal/Inflammation/Gastrointestinal/Urology
•Neuroscience (Psychiatry/Neurology) In-licensing
•Oncology GSK continues to identify compounds from other companiesthat
•Respiratory would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations
to ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for large
The MDCsdischargetheirresponsibilities throughproject teams for
and small companies.
each medicine in development. These project teams are responsible
for maximising the worldwide development opportunities for each The subjects of acquisitions, in-licensing, co-marketing/co-promotion,
product within their remitand to seethat all the information needed or future options arrangements in 2006 were:
to support the registration, safety programmes, pricing and formulary
•Genmab’s HuMax-CD20(ofatumumab), anti CD20 Mabin oncology
negotiations is available. Commercial input from Global Product
(Phase III) andrheumatoid arthritis(Phase II)
Strategy and Commercial Operations ensures that regional marketing
•HGS’LymphoStat Bfor lupus erythematosus (Phase III)
needs are integrated intodevelopment plans at an early stage.
•Gilead/Myogen’s ambrisentan (commercialisation, excluding USA),
The second component, DevelopmentOperations drives operational selective endothelin receptor antagonist for pulmonary arterial
excellence in medicine delivery at the study, projectand portfolio level. hypertension (Phase III), plus marketing and distribution agreement
This is doneby establishing integrated planning to ensure consistent for GSK's Flolan(in the USA) by Myogen
and predictable drug project plans and supplying valued clinical •Akros/Japan Tobacco’s JTP-74057, a MEKinhibitor (preclinical)
development capabilities.In 2006, development operations managed •ChemoCentryx– options on preclinical assets andtraficet(Phase II)
clinical trials with over30,000active patients, handling everything •EPIX– options on discovery targets and 5HT4 agonist(Phase I)
from patient recruitment to data management to project planning. •Galapagos –options on discovery programmes in osteoarthritis
Development Operations is also responsible for helping to identify (preclinical)
patients outside of traditional markets. In 2006,itidentifiedmore •Kissei’s SGLT1 inhibitors for type 2 diabetes(preclinical)
than 20,000 new patients,39% of whom were outside of Western •Pharmacopeia–options on discovery programmes(preclinical)
Europe and North America. •Sirna’s RNAI-based therapeutics for respiratory diseases (preclinical)
•Acquisition of the PlivaResearch Institute
The Office of the Chief Medical Officer is the third component of late-
stage developmentand is charged with the safety of patients involved Extending the use of existing products
in clinical trials, as well as the proper filing of the findings with Once a product is launched, it is important to establish additional
regulatory authorities. All clinical trials sponsored by GSK, irrespective ways in which patients may be helped. Thiscanbe done through
of where they take place, are conducted according to international investigating whetherother illnesses may be treated with the product
standards of good clinical practice and applicable laws and or by the development of additional, more convenient dosage forms.
regulations. The protocols are reviewed by the external regulatory Some developments reflect feedback from patients and medical
agencies in the relevant countries where required and all protocols are professionals, while others are the result of continuing research into
considered by an ethics review committee, whoseresponsibilitiescover disease and its causes.
the siteswhere the studieswill take place.GSK Annual Report 2006
11
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
In 2006, GSK received approval in the USA fora controlled-release The results obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the
version of Coreg, Coreg CR, which allows once-daily dosing for development of a quality and large-scale production process and
hypertension and mild to severe heart failure. The product will be facilities are then combined into a regulatory file which is submitted
launched in the USA in Q1 2007. GSK also began a novel investigation to the authorities in the countries where the vaccine will be
to determine whether its diabetes treatment, rosiglitazone XR is made available.
effective in Alzheimer’s Disease.The scientific basis for this programme
After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are set up
was developed thanks to the pharmacogenetics work undertaken
to assess vaccination programmesand to monitor vaccine safety
withrosiglitazoneover the past sevenyears.
(Phase IV).
Managing the portfolio
Vaccine manufacturing is particularly complex as it requires the use
Key projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed each month
of innovative technologies and living micro-organisms. Sophisticated
by the Product Management Board (PMB), which is responsible for
quality assurance and quality control procedures are in place to ensure
determining if amedicinehas met criteria for passing into the next
both quality and safety of the vaccines and this commonly includes
phase of development.
animal useaccording to health authorities’ requirements. Due to their
Progress of the portfolio is communicated to investors and the media biological nature, individual health authorities may subject vaccines to
at regular intervals during the year. Details of GSK’s product a second control to guarantee the highest quality standards.
development pipeline are given on pages13to16.
GSK has been increasing its capacity to supply vaccines across the
Risk in R&D globe by developing a unique global manufacturing network based
Pharmaceutical R&D, by its very nature,is an inherently risky venture. on three major regional hubs in Europe, North America and Asia.
From the time a potential medicine is discovered until it becomes an After the establishment of its North American hub in 2005 through
approved medicine can take 10-15 years. Further, only one in ten three major acquisitions, GSK further strengthened in 2006 its vaccine
molecules that starts human clinical trials ever reaches regulatory capabilities in both Asia and Europe:
approval. The nine out of ten that fail can be discontinued for a variety
– investing more than £100 million to set up a vaccine
of reasons, frominsufficientsafety thresholds to lack of efficacy to
manufacturing site dedicated to the primary production of
manufacturing hurdles.These discontinuations occur despite extensive
paediatric vaccines in Singapore
predictive testing. Late-stage projects terminated during 2006
includedbrecanavirforHIVandRedonafor diabetes. – opening in Gödöllö, Hungary, its€ 100 million primary production
facility for the manufacturing of diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis
Research and development – vaccines
antigens used in several paediatric combinations vaccines
The majority of GSK’s vaccine activities are conducted at itsbiologicals
headquarters in Rixensartand Wavre, Belgium. These include research, – investing more than€ 500 million inits vaccine manufacturing
clinical development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy, scaling plant in St Amand-les-Eaux, France, to increase production capacity
up, vaccine production, packaging and all other support functions. in formulation, filing, freeze-drying and packaging.
The discovery and development of a new vaccine is a complex process
Diseases of the developing world
requiring long-term investment.In R&D over 1,500 scientists are
Continued investment in research into diseases that disproportionately
devoted to developing new vaccines and more cost-effective and
affect the developing world is essential if there is to be a long-term
convenient combination vaccines to prevent infections that cause
improvement in the health of people who live in these regions. As part
serious medical problems worldwide. GSK is also targeting therapeutic
of GSK’s response to this challenge, it operates a drug discovery unit,
vaccines that may prevent relapse in cancer patients. Thanks to the
based at Tres Cantos (Spain), primarily dedicated to finding new
use of innovative technologies and its global business model, GSK is
medicines for malaria and tuberculosis. Additional research sites in
a fast-growing vaccinemaker, delivering value by contributing to the
the USA and the UK are focused on discovering new medicines to
health and well-being of people, in every generation around
treat HIV/AIDS and drug resistant bacteria, while vaccine research is
the world.
conducted in Rixensart (Belgium).
Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia and
Medicines and vaccines that enter clinical trials are taken through
the biotech industry to identify new vaccine antigens which are then
development and regulatory processesby dedicated groups based in
expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and purified to a very
the UK, USA and Belgium. Through these R&D efforts, GSK is
high level.
addressing the prevention and treatment of all three of the World
This is followed by formulation of the clinical lots of the vaccine. This Health Organization’s (WHO) top priority diseases.
may involve mixing antigens with selected GSK novel proprietary
GSK currently has 14 clinical programmes of relevance to the
adjuvant systems, which are designed to enhance the immune
developing world,7of which are aimed at producing vaccines and
response. The first step is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the
medicines for diseases that disproportionately affect developing
candidate vaccine in a preclinical setting, usually involving an animal
countries.
model. The candidate vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy
individuals to evaluate safety and effectiveness in inducing an immune
response to protect the body from infection encountered later in a
natural setting (Phase I/II). Large-scale field trials in healthy individuals
follow to establish safety and efficacy in a cross section of the
population (Phase III).GSK Annual Report 2006
12
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Public/Private Partnerships (PPPs) remain essential to fund research Major NCEs and vaccines in phase III development:
where there is no commercially viable market for a potential product. •ambrisentan – for hypertension
GSK is a leader in workinginPPPs and continues to collaborate closely •Lymphostat-B* – for lupus
with many governments, academic centres, United Nations’ agencies •casopitant* –for post-operative and chemotherapy-induced
and other global funding bodies in this area, to maximise expertise vomiting and nausea
and knowledge. This has the dual benefit of encouraging research and •pazopanib* – for prevention of tumour growth
development and accelerating access to the medicines in the •mepolizumab – for hypereosinophilic syndrome
developing world. •Promacta* – for patients with low platelet count
•New generation ‘flu vaccine*
Animals and research
•Globorix– a new combination paediatric vaccine against hepatitis B,
For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals
diphtheria, meningitis A and C
remains a small but vital part of research and development of new
•New meningitis vaccine against meningitis C and Y and Hib*
medicines and vaccines. GSK only uses animals where there is no
•Synflorix– vaccine to prevent pneumococcal disease.
alternative and only in the numbers required for each test. The Group
(* entered late-stage in the last 12 months)
strives to exceed regulatory standards in the care and use of the
animals it uses and undergoes internal and external review to assure Major NCEs and vaccines filed:
these standards. •Allermist/Avamys– for hay fever; USapprovalexpected in first half
of 2007
The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
•Altabax/Altargo– for skin infections;approvalexpected in 2007
GSK is actively engaged in research to develop and validate more tests
•Entereg– forpost-operative ileus,approvalexpected in 2007
that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce the numbers
•Tykerb– for breast cancer; USapprovalexpected in first half of 2007
needed. When animals are used in research unnecessary pain or
•Cervarix– vaccine to prevent cervical cancer; European and
suffering is scrupulously avoided.
International launches expected in second half of 2007
GSK understands that use of animals for research purposes •H5N1 pandemic vaccine.
commands a high level of public interest. The GlaxoSmithKline Public
Late-stage assets in-licensedduring the last 12 months:
Policy Position ‘The care and ethical use of animals in research’, and
•HuMax-CD20– for the treatment of leukaemia and
further information and reports, are available on the website,
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
www.gsk.comor from Secretariat.
•gepirone ER – for major depressive disorder
•XP13512 – for restless legs syndrome and treatment of
Research and development – Consumer Healthcare
neuropathic pain.
The focus of R&D is to identify and develop novel products that benefit
In2007,GSK expects to launch 5 major new pharmaceutical products.
consumers in the over-the-counter (OTC), oral care and nutritional
For further details of these developments, and information on other
healthcare markets. To achieve a significant increase in innovation
important launches/filings expected in 2007,see GSK outlook on
from internal and external sources, R&D hasremodelledto deliver a
page44.
more valuable pipeline of products. With thischange, specific tasks
that can be performed at lower cost outside the company have been This maturity in the late stage pipeline is expected to lead to an
transferred toexternal development partners. This transfer, along with increase in registrations in the coming years. The content of the drug
other headcount reductions and savings, releases substantial funds for development portfolio will change over time as new compounds
investment in additional innovation projects. The remodellingbuilds progress from discovery to development and from development to the
on the recently adopted Consumer Healthcare operating model market. Owing to the nature of the drug development process, many
whereby, for the Global brands, R&D mirrors the commercial structure, of these compounds, especially those in early stages of investigation,
with brand-dedicated R&D teams paired with commercial brand may be terminated as they progress through development. Phase I
teams and both located together at the Innovation Centres at NCEs with multiple indications are counted only once. NCEs in later
Weybridge, UK or Parsippany,USA. phases are counted by each indication. For competitive reasons, new
projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some
GSK’s pipeline
project types may not have been identified.
At the end of February 2007, GSK had nearly210pharmaceutical and
GSK’s policy is to seek to obtain patent protection on all protectable
vaccine projects in development. Of these, 158 are in the clinic
inventions discovered or developed through its R&D activities. Patent
comprising94NCEs,41PLEs and23vaccines, compared with 118
protection for new active ingredients is available in all significant
in 2001.
markets and protection can also be obtained,for example,on new
In the last 12 months,4 NCEs, 3 new vaccines and3in-licenced assets pharmaceutical formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses
entered late-stage development. and special devices for administering products, see page23.
GSK now has 31 major product opportunities in phase III development
or registration, comprising 13 new chemical entities (NCEs), 6 new
vaccines and 12 product line extensions (PLEs).GSK Annual Report 2006
13
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Key
† In-license or other alliance relationship with third party
NDA New drug application (USA)
S Date of first submission
Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers
A Date of first regulatory approval (for MAA, this is the first EU
Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efficacy, conducted in
approval letter)
a small number of patients
AL Approvable letter indicates that ultimately approval can be given
subject to resolution ofoutstanding queries Phase III Large comparative study (compound versus placebo and/or established
treatment) in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety.
MAA Marketing authorisation application (Europe)
Estimated submission dates are onlydisclosed where they are within 12 months of the date of the chart. This date represents the most likely
year of submission where it is considered that there is a reasonably high probability of successfully meeting the date assuming the clinical
data meets the expected end-points of the clinical trials.
Estimated
submission dates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Cardiovascular & Metabolic
256073 high affinity nicotinic acid receptor dyslipidaemia I
(HM74A) agonist
568859† lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 atherosclerosis I
(Lp-PLA2) inhibitor
813893 factor Xa inhibitor prevention of stroke in atrial fibrillation I
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis (also rheumatoid arthritis &chronic I
obstructive pulmonary disease, COPD)
rilapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I
501516† peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor dyslipidaemia II
(PPAR) delta agonist
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis (alsoCOPD, neuropathic pain & II
rheumatoid arthritis)
darapladib† Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis ll/III
ambrisentan† endothelin A antagonist pulmonary arterial hypertension III 2007 N/A
Coreg CR†+ ACE inhibitor beta blocker + angiotensin converting hypertension – fixed dose combination III N/A
enzyme inhibitor
Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome Approvable S:Jul06 AL:Feb07
Coreg CR† beta blocker hypertension & congestive heart failure – once-daily Approved N/A A:Oct06
Metabolic projects
189075† sodium dependent glucose transport (SGLT2) obesity I
inhibitor
376501 PPAR gamma partial agonist type 2 diabetes I
625019 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes & metabolic syndrome I
189075† SGLT2inhibitor type 2 diabetes II
677954 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes,metabolic syndrome&dyslipidaemia II
869682† SGLT2 inhibitor obesity II
albiglutide (716155)† glucagon-like peptide 1 agonist type 2 diabetes II
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist atherosclerosis in type 2 diabetes II
Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist + metformin type 2 diabetes – extended release III N/A 2007
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist prevention of diabetes III N/A 2007
Avandia PPAR gamma agonist prevention of disease progression III N/A 2007
Avandia + simvastatin PPAR gamma agonist + statin type 2 diabetes III N/A 2007
Avandaryl/Avaglim† PPAR gamma agonist + sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes – fixed dose combination Approved A:Jun06 A:Dec05
Infectious Diseases
565154 oral pleuromutilin treatment of bacterial infections I
742510 oral pleuromutilin treatment of bacterial infections I
farglitazar PPAR gamma agonist hepatic fibrosis II
sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis II N/A
tafenoquine† 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivaxmalaria II
chlorproguanil, dapsone + antifolate + artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria IIl 2008 N/A
artesunate (CDA)†
Altabax/Altargo topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections Approvable S:Jun06 AL:Dec06
Antivirals
625433 polymerase inhibitor hepatitis C I
825780† DNA antiviral vaccine HIV infection I
364735† integrase inhibitor HIV infection II
Relenza† neuraminidase inhibitor influenza prophylaxis Approved A:Aug06 A:Mar06GSK Annual Report 2006
14
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Estimated
submissiondates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Musculoskeletal, Inflammation, Gastrointestinal &Urology
221149 oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour I
232802 3G-selective oestrogen receptor modulator treatment of menopausal symptoms I
267268 vitronectin integrin antagonist age-related macular degeneration I
315234 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis I
366074† potassium channel opener overactive bladder I
751689† calcium antagonist osteoporosis I
768974† parathyroid hormone agonist osteoporosis I
relacatib† cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis (also bone metastases) I
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis (also migraine) II
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor(oral) rheumatoid arthritis (also atherosclerosis, COPD II
& neuropathic pain)
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) rheumatoid arthritis (also atherosclerosis & COPD) II
876008† corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF1) antagonistirritable bowel syndrome (also depression & anxiety) II
casopitant NK1 antagonist overactive bladder (also depression & anxiety, II
chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting)
dutasteride + testosterone 5-alpha reductase inhibitor + testosterone hypogonadism – fixed dose combination II
HuMax-CD20 human monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis(chronic lymphocytic leukaemia II
(ofatumumab)† & non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma)
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody eosinophilic esophagitis (alsosevereasthma & nasal II
polyposis)
rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist rheumatoid arthritis (also Alzheimer’s disease) II
solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist irritable bowel syndrome II
solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist overactive bladder II
Avodart+ alpha blocker 5-alpha reductase inhibitor + alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia – fixed dose combination III
Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer III
belimumab† anti-B lymphocycte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus III
antibody
Entereg/Entrareg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist opioid induced bowel dysfunction III
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome (also severe asthma & nasal III
polyposis)
Entereg/Entrareg† peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus Approvable AL:Jul05 &
AL:Nov06
Boniva/Bonviva† bisphosphonate treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis – i.v. injection Approved A:Mar06 A:Jan06
Neurosciences
163090 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
189254 histamine H3 antagonist dementia I
239512 histamine H3 antagonist dementia I
561679† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
588045 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
598809 dopamine D3 antagonist drug dependency I
729327 AMPA receptor modulator schizophrenia I
823296 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I
274150 selective iNOS inhibitor migraine (also rheumatoid arthritis) II
372475† triple (5HT/noradrenaline/dopamine) re-uptake depression II
inhibitor
468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II
649868† orexin antagonist sleep disorders II
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor neuropathic pain (also atherosclerosis, COPD & II
rheumatoid arthritis)
683699† dual alpha4 integrin antagonist (VLA4) multiple sclerosis II
742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II
773812 mixed 5HT/dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia II
842166 non-cannabinoid CB2 agonist inflammatory pain II
876008† CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety (also irritable bowel syndrome) II
casopitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety (also overactive bladder, II
chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting)
talnetant NK3 antagonist schizophrenia II
gepironeER† 5HT1a agonist major depressive disorder, once-daily III 2007
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy – partial generalised tonic-clonic seizures, once-dailyIII N/A 2007
rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer's disease (also rheumatoid arthritis) III
Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy – partial seizures, once-daily Submitted N/A S:Nov06
Requipextended release non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legs syndrome Submitted N/A S:Oct06
RequipModutab/XL non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinson’s disease – once-daily controlled release Submitted S:Dec05 S:Feb07
24 hour† formulation
Trexima† 5HT1 agonist + naproxen migraine – fixed dose combination Approvable N/A AL:Jun06
Wellbutrin XL† noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor seasonal affective disorder Approved N/A A:Jun06
Wellbutrin XL/XR† noradrenaline/dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression Approved A:Dec06 A:Aug03GSK Annual Report 2006
15
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Estimated
submission dates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Oncology
559448† thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia I
626616† human kinaseinhibitor chemoprotection I
pazopanib vascular endothelial growth factor non-small cell lung cancer & colorectal cancer I
(VEGF) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (in combination with other treatment regimens)
relacatib† cathepsin K inhibitor bone metastases (also osteoporosis & osteoarthritis) I
pazopanib + Tykerb VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor + ErbB-2 breast cancer II
and epidermal growth factor receptor
(EGFR) dual kinase inhibitor
pazopanib + Tykerb VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor + ErbB-2 other cancers II
and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor
Promacta(eltrombopag)† thrombopoietin agonist chemotherapy induced thrombocytopaenia II
Promacta(eltrombopag)† thrombopoietin agonist hepatitis C II
casopitant NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced & postoperative*nausea & III
vomiting (*USAonly)
(also overactive bladder, depression & anxiety)
HuMax-CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia& non-Hodgkin’s III
(ofatumumab)† lymphoma (also rheumatoid arthritis)
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first-line therapy III
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second-line therapy – III 2007 2007
oral formulation
pazopanib VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor renal cell cancer III
Promacta(eltrombopag)† thrombopoietin agonist long-termidiopathicthrombocytopaenicpurpura III
Promacta(eltrombopag)† thrombopoietin agonist short-termidiopathicthrombocytopaenicpurpura III 2007/08
Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, adjuvant therapy III
Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, first-line therapy III
Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinomas III
Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor refractory breast cancer Submitted S:Oct06 S:Sep06
Arranon/Atriance guanine arabinoside prodrug acute lymphoblastic leukaemia & lymphomas Approved S:May06 A:Oct05
Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor cervical cancer,second-line therapy Approved A:Nov06 A:Jun06
Respiratory
256066 PDE IV inhibitor (inhaled) COPD I
573719 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD I
679586 monoclonal antibody severe asthma I
961081† muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD I
159797† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
159802† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
233705 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II
256066 PDE IV inhibitor (inhaled) asthma II
256066 PDE IV inhibitor (intranasal) allergic rhinitis II
597901† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
642444† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
678007† long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II
glucocorticoid agonist
681323 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also atherosclerosis, neuropathic pain & II
rheumatoid arthritis)
685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long-acting II
beta2 agonist (also as Avamys/Allermist for allergic rhinitis)
784568 glucocorticoid agonist (intranasal) allergic rhinitis II
799943 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long-acting II
beta2 agonist
856553 p38 kinase inhibitor (oral) COPD (also atherosclerosis & rheumatoid arthritis) II
870086 novel glucocorticoid agonist asthma II
mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody severe asthma & nasal polyposis (also hypereosinophilic II
syndrome & eosinophilic esophagitis)
Avamys/Allermist glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis Submitted S:Jul06 S:Jun06
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid COPD – mortality claim Submitted S:Sep06 S:Oct06
Ariflo PDE IV inhibitor (oral) COPD Approvable AL:Oct03
Seretide beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – initial maintenance therapy Approved A:Jul06 N/A
Seretide/Advair beta2 agonist/inhaled corticosteroid asthma – non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Jun00 A:Jun06GSK Annual Report 2006
16
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Delivering the product pipeline for patients
continued
Estimated
submission dates
Compound/Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA
Paediatric Vaccines
MenACWY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitisgroups A, C, W & Y disease II
prophylaxis
Globorix conjugated diptheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, Haemophilus lll 2007
influenzaetype b disease, Neisseria meningitisgroups
A & C disease prophylaxis
Hib-MenCY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitisgroups C & Y disease & III
Haemophilus influenzaetype b disease prophylaxis
Infanrix-IPV subunit – inactivated diptheria, tetanus, pertussis +poliomyelitisprophylaxis III 2007
(booster 5thdose)
Synflorix conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniaediseaseand non-typeable lll 2007
Haemophilus influenzaeprophylaxis for children
Priorix-Tetra live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella & varicella prophylaxis Approved A:Jul06
Rotarix† live attenuated – oral rotavirus induced gastroenteritis prophylaxis Approved A:Feb06 2007
Other Vaccines
HIV recombinant HIV infection prophylaxis l
S. pneumoniae elderly recombinant– conjugated Streptococcuspneumoniaedisease prophylaxis l
Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine Dengue fever prophylaxis ll
Epstein-Barr virus† recombinant EBV infection prophylaxis ll
Hepatitis E virus† recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis ll
Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis ll
Tuberculosis recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II
Varicella Zoster virus recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention II
New generation ‘flu vaccine inactivatedsplit-trivalent seasonal influenza prophylaxisfor the elderly III
Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis lll
Daronrix inactivated whole-aluminium salt– pandemic influenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Dec05
monovalent
‘Flu pre-pandemic H5N1 inactivated split-monovalent pandemic influenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Jan07
Cervarix† recombinant human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis Submitted S:Mar06 2007
FluLaval inactivated split influenza prophylaxis Approved 2007 A:Oct06
Pharmaccines
P501 recombinant treatment of prostate cancer l
MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer & melanoma llGSK Annual Report 2006
17
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Being the best place for the best people to do their best work
To engage a wider range of managers, the half-day workshop on
GlaxoSmithKline people
Ethical Decision-making (attended by 479 leaders in 2005) has been
GlaxoSmithKline is committed to creating the best place for the
extended to three e-learning modules, which are being implemented
best people to do their best work to deliver the Group’s business
across the businesses. So far, over 400 people have completed at least
strategy. The Group employs over 100,000 people in more than
one of the three modules.
117countries.
Maintaining Standards
Recruitment, talent management and leadership
GSK expects employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects development
of business by conducting activities with honesty and integrity,
Attracting the best people in the industry is critical to enhancing and
adhering to corporate responsibility principles and complying with
sustaining GSK’s performance. The Group’s Talent Solutions recruiters
applicable laws and regulations. GSK audits its operations to ensure
in the USA and UK are focused on pro-active identification of talented
relevant standards expected, such as those in marketing practices,
external candidates for key jobs.
are reached or exceeded.
The annual performance and development planning (PDP) process
Commitment to the GSK Code of Conduct is reinforced each year by
ensures that employees set business aligned objectives and
a senior management certification programme, and in 2006 over
behavioural goals. PDPs are reviewed throughout the year,
12,000 managers certified they had complied with “Performance
culminating with an end of year review that is factored into
with Integrity” principles.
compensation decisions.
The PDP process includes an assessment of how well employees have
The annual talent management cycle identifies the highest
implemented the GSK Spirit,the principles used to defineGSK’s
performing people in each business and functionand key talent is
culture. Thismay havea significant impact on bonus paymentsand
developed through tailored management and leadership
may also affect future career development. In this way the Group
programmes (for more detail see the Group’s Corporate
holds employees accountable for delivering performance with high
Responsibility Report), exposure to top management through
standards of integrity to protect and enhance GSK’s reputation.
programmes such as the Chief Executive Forum and stretch
assignments. A pool of potential successors is identified foreach Diversity
Vice-President positionand other critical roles in the organisation. The diversity and inclusion initiatives focuson improving performance
by responding to the diverse needs of employees, customers and
Performance and reward
external stakeholders.Inthe fifth year of theannual Multicultural
Reward systems are designed to support a culture of high
Marketing and Diversity Awards, 14 teams fromaround the world
performance and to attract and retain the best people. Performance
highlighted innovative activities that demonstrated business impact.
based pay and bonuses, share awards and share options align
In 2006, the global management population was63.7% male and
employee interests with themeetingof business targets.
36.3% female. For more details on diversity measures, see the
Communication and employee involvement Employment Practices section of the Corporate Responsibility report.
The Group conducts a Global Leadership Survey (GLS) every two years.
The Group is committed to employment policies free from
The most recent survey was conductedin 2006 among more than
discrimination against existing or potentialstaff on the grounds of
10,000 managers to gauge opinions on critical issues such as culture
age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith
and confidence in the Group’s future. Scores on morale and
or disability. GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities
engagement have steadily increased since 2002 and comparevery
access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities. Every
favourably with global benchmarks (42 top-ranked companies). In
effort is made to retain and support employees who become disabled
the 2006 survey, 90% of managers were “proud to be part of
while working with the Group.
GlaxoSmithKline” and 86% would “gladly refer a friend or family
member to work for GlaxoSmithKline”. Each business and function Health and well-being
developsaction plans to address areas for improvement based on Healthy employees and healthy ways of working contribute tothe
results from the GLS and other surveys. sustained performanceof the Group. Global policies onemployee
health are supported by mandatory standards that integrate employee
The Group also consults employees on changes that affect them and
health and safety and environmental requirements. These standards
discusses developments in the businesses with a European Employee
are applied to all the Group’s facilities and operations worldwide.
Consultation Forum and similar bodies in countries where this is
national practice. In 2006 in the UK, a new national consultation A commitment to flexible working through flexi-time, tele-
forum was created. The UK Information and Consultation Forum is conferencing, remote working and flexible work schedules, recognises
made up of 15 elected employee representatives and seven that employees work best in an environment that helps them
management representatives. It meets regularly so that employee integrate their work and personal lives.
views can be taken into account before major changes affecting all
During 2006,the Group’s Employee Health Management function
employees are implemented.
developed aresilience programme which has now been translated
Business ethics and reputation into 11 languages and adopted in12countries.
Performance withintegrity is central to operating at GSK. The 2006
GLSshowed91% believe that “people in their department show
commitment to performance with integrity”and 82% agree that
they “can report unethical practices without fear of reprisal”.GSK Annual Report 2006
18
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Improving access to medicines
Access to healthcare in the developing world Access to medicines in the developed world
Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a major challenge Programmes in the USA
to the global community. The problem, which is rooted in poverty, GSK is working to provide meaningful access to medicines for people
demands a significant mobilisation of political will, additional resources with limited financial resources and without prescription drug
and a true spirit of partnership. GSK continues to play a vital role, insurance. In 2006, GSK’s USpatient assistance programmes provided
through its commitment to R&D into diseases particularly prevalent in $370 million worth of medicines, valued at wholesale acquisition cost,
the developing world, through its programme of preferential pricing to 402,000 qualifying low income US residents.
for its anti-retrovirals (ARVs), anti-malarials and vaccines, through its
GSK has worked to expand its patient assistance programmeand created
community investment programmes (see page19) and through its
“GSK Access” to include those enrolled in Medicare Part D. Beginning
willingness to seek innovative solutions, such as voluntary
in 2007, GSK Access will help eligible Part-D-enrolledpatients who have
licencing arrangements.
spent at least $600 of their own money during the current year on
Preferential pricing programme outpatient medicines and may qualify to receive GSK medicines free.
GSK has offered its vaccines to key organisations for vaccination
For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or Medicaid,
programmes in developing countries at preferential prices for over 20
GSK and 11 other pharmaceutical companies created Together Rx
years. The Group also sets a single not-for-profit price for each of its
Access, a programme for qualified individuals offering reductions in the
ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the Least
pharmacy cost on more than 300 medicines.Over 820,000 Together
Developed Countries (UN definition) and sub-Saharan Africa, as well
RxAccess cardholders,saved about $24 million in 2006.
as Country Coordinating Mechanism-projects fully funded by the
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria and the US President’s GSK participates in the Partnership for Prescription Assistance (PPA), the
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). In July 2006, GSK introduced largest national programme dedicated to helping people in need access
two new ARVs, Kivexaand Telzir,to its not-for-profit offering and prescription medicines. PPA has helped more than 3 million US patients
reduced prices to GSK’s abacavir-containing products by up to 30%. in need find programmes providing significant help. GSK and other US
pharmaceutical companies launched the programmein 2005 working
GSK is committed to contributing to health improvements in a
with healthcare, physician and patient advocacy organisations.
sustainable manner. The prices for its ARVs and anti-malarials are
therefore set at levels at which no profit is made, but direct costs are Patient Advocacy
covered, allowing supply to be sustained for as long as required. The Patient Advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant progress
During 2006, GSK shipped to developing countries over 27 million since its inception in 2002.Initially launched as a US programme, it is
tablets of not-for-profit-priced Combivirandnearly 59million tablets now a critical initiative throughout GSK. Patient Advocacy teams in
of not-for-profit-priced Epivir. Some of our licensees are now supplying the USA and Europe share best practices and established processes to
key markets in a more significant way. optimise interaction with patient groups. Typically these relationships
provide mutual opportunities: to learn about patient needs and
The offer of not-for-profit prices requires a sustainable framework,
priorities and for patient groups to develop an understanding of drug
combining GSK’s commitment to preferential pricing with commitments
development challenges.
from governments of the developed world to avoid price referencing
against preferentially priced medicines and from all governments to In 2006, Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits were held in the USA,
help prevent product diversion. GSK has taken steps to minimise the Brazil and Japan,with over 1,000attending GSK sponsored meetings.
threat of diversion with the registration of specific access packs or access In the USA, GSK partnered with the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare
tablets (differentiated red tablet as opposed to the traditional white) for Services to develop 12 regional meetings to educate patient groupson
its key ARVs. GSK is the only company to have registered its ARVs under the new Medicare Drug Benefit and increase programme participation.
the European Union’s Anti-Diversion Regulation.
Programmes in other countries
Innovative solutions The Group has also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts on
GSK has shown industry leadership in granting voluntary licences to certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in Bulgaria,
eight generic companies for the manufacture and supply of ARVs to Lithuania and Ukraine. The nature of the discounts varies between
both the public and private sectors in sub-Saharan Africa. GSK is also countriesand the way in which the healthcare system operates.
a leader in collaborating in Public-Private Partnerships to enable new
In September 2006, GSK announced an agreement with the Russian
drug discovery and development to take place more effectively.
Government to supply anti-retroviral medicines, for the treatment of
Looking ahead HIV/AIDS, at discounted prices. The agreement is the first direct,
GSK will continue to build on its product, pricing and partnership federal purchase of anti-retroviral medicines in Russia.
commitments to help improve healthcare in the developing world.
Preparing for a ‘flu pandemic
However, a significant increase in funding from the global community
As part of its commitment to support governments and health
is still needed. It is also important to maintain incentives for R&D
authorities to prepare for the threat of aninfluenza pandemic, GSK
through protection of intellectual property.
announced in2006 promising data on the immunogenicity of its new
While muchhas beenachieved, sustainable progress will only occur generation H5N1 pandemic influenza vaccine. This innovative
if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better access to pandemic vaccine candidate is also believed to have the potential to
healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global offer protection againstdriftedvariants of the H5N1 virus allowing a
society – governments, international agencies, charities, academic proactive pre-pandemic vaccination approach to be considered.
institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and others.Commitment to corporate responsibility In the UK, GSK contributed £7 million in 2006 to its continuing
programme of charitable activities supporting over 100 organisations
GSK is committed to connecting business decisions to ethical, social
in health, medical research, science education, the arts and the
and environmental concerns. Thus, corporate responsibility is an
environment.
integral and embedded part of the way GSK does business.
Programmes in North America focused on improving public education
In 2003, GSK published a set of Corporate Responsibility principles to
and access to better healthcare for children and seniors both nationally
provide guidance on the standards to which the Group is committed.
and locally with funding of $34 million.
This sets out the approach to 10 areas: standards of ethical conduct,
research and innovation, products and customers, access to GSK does not operate a single charitable foundation for its community
medicines, employment practices, human rights, community investment programmes, but has a number of country based
investment, caring for the environment, leadership and advocacy, and foundations. The grants made by these foundations in 2006 are
engagement with stakeholders. The Groupreports annually on included in the investment total.
progress in upholding these principles in its Corporate Responsibility
Global Health Programmes
Report, which is available on the website at www.gsk.com.
Eliminating lymphatic filariasis
Partnership success The Group’s effort to eliminate the disabling disease, lymphatic
GSK works as a partner with under-served communities in the filariasis (LF) from the world, continued in close partnership with the
developed and developing world. It supports programmes that are governments of countries where the disease is endemic, the WHO and
innovative and sustainable and that bring real benefits to these over 40 partner organisations. GSK is committed to donate as much
communities. The Group engages with numerous external of the anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required to treat the one
stakeholders, funds community-led initiatives around the world and billion people at risk in 80 countries. In 2006, 155 million albendazole
donates medicines to support humanitarian efforts and community- treatments, worth £16 million at wholesale acquisition cost, were
based healthcare. donated to 34 countries. Since the global elimination programme
started in 2000, a cumulative total of almost 600 million albendazole
Community investment treatments have been donated.
GSK’s global community investment activities in 2006 were valued at Positive Action on HIV/AIDS
£302 million, equivalent to 3.9% of Group profit before tax. This Positive Action is GSK’s pioneering global programme working with
comprised product donations of £238 million, cash giving of £46 communities affected by AIDS. Started in 1992, it supports
million, other in-kind donations of £3 million and costs of £15 million community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS
to manage and deliver community programmes in 109 countries. education, prevention and healthcare services. During 2006, Positive
Action worked with 26 partners to support programmes in 17
Product donations and cash giving in 2006 were as follows:
countries. Positive Action was the principal sponsor of the
1. Product donations community section (The Global Village) at the International AIDS
Conference held in Toronto.
The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership
Since 2002, this partnership has supported three behavioural
development programmes working in eight African countries. The
programmes have targeted nearly two million people, focusing
particularly on young children and pregnant women, encouraging
effective prevention measures, prompt treatment and antenatal
malaria management. In addition, GSK’s malaria advocacy
programme ‘Mobilising for Malaria’ launched country Coalitions
GSK’s cash giving was targeted primarily at health and
Against Malaria in the UK, Belgium, France, Ethiopia and Cameroon
education initiatives.
to increase awareness of malaria and mobilise resources.
2. Breakdown of cash giving
GSK Annual Report 2006
19
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Corporate responsibility and community investment
3
2
1 Patient Assistance Programs
£200 million
2 Albendazole for LF
£16 million
3 Humanitarian Product Donations
£22 million
1
5
4
3 1 Health (44%)
2 Education (38%)
1
3 Arts and Culture (4%)
4 Environment (2%)
5 Other (12%)
2PHASE In 2006, GSK helped to launch PUPPETS: Talking Science,Engaging
The PHASE programme (Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education), Science into UKprimary schools, with grants of over £480,000 over
initiated by GSK in 1998, is now providing education to thousands of four years. The puppets and their supporting materials increase
school children in Kenya, Uganda, Zambia, Nicaragua, Peru and children’s engagement and motivate them to talk about science. GSK’s
Bangladesh to improve their health and hygiene to fight infectious support will enable 9,000 teachers to attend subsidised training over
diseases. In 2006 the Group committed three year funding of$0.9 the next four years, and provide a set of puppets and training materials
million to extend the programme to Mexico and Tajikistan in to each of the participating schools.
partnership with Save the Children, USA.
Only 25% of secondary school science teachers in England are
Humanitarian product donations chemistry specialists. Chemistry for Non-Specialists has been
During 2006, GSK donated essential products, such as antibiotics, developed by the Royal Society of Chemistry to train teachers to teach
through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, MAP International chemistry with confidence, flair and enthusiasm. GSK is supporting
and Project HOPE, to support humanitarian relief efforts and the programme with a donation of £450,000 over three years starting
community healthcare. The total value of the Group’s international in 2006.
humanitarian product donations was £22 million. This excludes
Employee involvement
albendazole donated as part of the Group’s commitment to the
GSK employees are encouraged to contribute to their local
lymphatic filariasis elimination programme. Product donations are
communities through employee volunteering schemes. Support varies
valued at wholesale acquisition cost,which is the wholesale list price,
around the world, but includes employee time, cash donations to
not including discounts, and is a standard industry method.
charities where employees volunteer and a matching gifts programme.
Community initiatives
In 2006 in the USA, the Group matched more than 17,500 employee
GSK is dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities through
and retiree gifts at a value of over $5 million. The Group also matched
providing health and education initiatives and support for local civic
more than $1.3 million of employee donations to GSK’s annual United
and cultural institutions that improve the quality of life.
Way campaign. GSK’s GIVE program provided grants of almost
GSK’s contribution to improve healthcare includes a grant of almost $340,000 to more than 365 organisations where US employees
$3 million over three years to the Children’s Health Fund to expand have volunteered.
their Referral Management Initiative (RMI) to sites in Philadelphia,
GSK’s Making a Difference programme in the UK provided grants of
including the Delaware Valley Community Health Center. The RMI
£225,000 to over 380 non-profit organisations and registered charities
ensures continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children who
based on employee involvement.
are often homeless.
The annual GlaxoSmithKline IMPACT Awards recognise excellence in
the work of non-profit community health organisations across the
UK and in the Greater Philadelphia area of the USA. Over 20 charities
receive unrestricted awards for their work dealing with diverse and
difficult social issues such as domestic violence, sexual health services
for young people, community health support and counselling services.
To further medical research, over £592,000 was provided to four UK
medical charities, Asthma UK, the British Retinitis Pigmentosa Society,
Deafness Research UKand the Muscular Dystrophy Campaign.
Education initiatives
GSK’s efforts to improve public and science education included a $1
million endowment to the National Board for Professional Teaching
Standards to increase the number of science teachers attaining
certification initially in the North Carolina and Philadelphia areas, but
extending to all 50 states.
During 2006, GSK supported the Institute for a Competitive
Workforce, a new business coalition staffed by the Business Civic
Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce. This is aimed at
improving education and creating a skilled workforce.
GSK also supports a range of local initiatives in the USA. For example
‘Science in the Summer’, a free library-based science education
programme in the Philadelphia area teaching basic scientific concepts,
continued to receive support with a grant of almost $400,000.
GSK Annual Report 2006
20
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Corporate responsibility and community investment
continuedGSK Annual Report 2006
21
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Global manufacturing and supply
GSK manufactures a large portfolio of products, ranging from tablets Operational excellence
and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over 28,000
Within GMS, Operational Excellence provides the capability to drive
different pack sizes and presentations.
improvements in process robustness, quality, performance and
Manufacture of medicines starts with the development of a customer service. Operational Excellence is underpinned by extensive
therapeutic active ingredient (bulk active) in a selected formulation. education and a culture of continuous improvement.
Global Manufacturing and Supply (GMS) develops manufacturing
Vision Factory
processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at
GSK introduced the Vision Factory initiative to work towards a simpler,
primary manufacturing sites. Secondary sites then convert these active
more efficient operating model within GMS. Vision Factory is enabling
compounds into finished medicines.
manufacturing operations to accelerate the improvement in
Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk actives and performance and cost control.
more than four billion packs, which are sold in over 140 countries. It
Quality
also supports about 2,000 new product and line extension launches
The quality organisation oversees product quality across the supply
every year.
chain, from suppliers and third party manufacturers through
By adopting leading edge practices and developing its people, manufacturing to the supply operations that deliver productsinto the
GMS provides: market. The quality organisation focuses on improving quality and
compliance by increasing product quality understanding, and
•a secure source of supply of high quality products
harmonising the quality approach across all sites. GSK continues to
•compliance with regulatory requirements and customer expectations
work with the FDA on Good Manufacturing Practice for the 21st
•best in class cost.
Century and other initiatives.
Organisation External suppliers
GMS spends over £2 billion annually with many external suppliers,
GMS operates as a single global network of 80 sites in 37 countries.
purchasing active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging
The sites are grouped into four supply divisions, based on common
components, and part-finished and finished products. It takes
business drivers, areas of expertise and the commercial activities that
appropriate steps to protect our supply chains from any disruption.
they support.
Procurement
Primary supply
Widely recognised by industry analysts as a best practice leader,
Primary supply has 12 sites in six countries, supplying high quality,
procurement works collaboratively to develop and implement sourcing
competitively priced bulk actives. The division is focused on
strategies which ensures that GSK receives best value when buying
improvements in primary technologies and processes.
goods and services. GSK leverages its procurement activities across the
New product and global supply Group structure.
There are 10 new product and global supply sites in seven countries.
Vaccines supply chain
Sites work closely with R&D’s development team to ensure that the
GSK biologicals’ manufacturing network is based on three major
right technical competencies are in place to support rapid and
regional hubs in Europe, North America and Asia. In Europe, vaccine
successful new product introduction. These sites also ensure secure
manufacturing is located primarily at Rixensart and Wavre in Belgium,
supply of key brands that are sold across many markets. This division
with three other sites in France, Germany and Hungary. In North
is the focal point for developing and introducing new secondary
America, GSK established its vaccine production network in 2005
manufacturing technologies for GMS.
through three major acquisitions: US based Corixa Corporation, with
Regional pharma supply a production site in Hamilton, Montana, which manufactures MPL, a
Regional pharma supply operates to supply key products in particular key component of GSK’s adjuvant systems, a vaccine production site
regions or markets and tailor packaging to meet specific local in Marietta, Pennsylvania and ID Biomedical with ‘flu vaccine
requirements. This division focuses on reducing costs, allowing GSK manufacturing facilities in Laval and Quebec, Canada. In Asia, new
to compete more effectively in all its markets. There are 29 regional vaccine production facilities are being built in India and Singapore.
pharma supply sites in 22 countries. Managing the vaccine supply chain involves anticipating market needs
and using a flexible approach to be able to meet fluctuations in
Consumer Healthcare supply
demand. These are based on forecasts from the different markets and
Consumer Healthcare supply delivers high-quality, competitively priced
firm orders from health authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
products and supports rapid new product introduction in a highly
innovative and competitive business with far shorter time frames than Bulk, filling and packaging are carefully balanced and stocking of
pharmaceuticals. New technologies have become a fundamental vaccines helps manage short-term increases in demand. Such
platform for driving innovation, lowering costs and providing flexibility increases result from disease outbreaks or increased demand from
in operations. There are 29 sites in 21 countries in Consumer the public owing to disease awareness campaigns.
Healthcare supply.Business review
Regulatory environment
Regulation – Pharmaceuticals Price controls
In manycountries the prices of pharmaceutical products are controlled
GSK operates within a highly regulated environment. Regional and
by law. Governments may also influence prices through their control
country-specific laws and regulations define the data required to show
of national healthcare organisations, which may bear a large part of
safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products, as well as govern
the cost of supplying products to consumers.
testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of drugs.
These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France,
whether a marketable product may be successfully developed and Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
the amount of time and expense associated with this development.
In the USA, recent legislation on healthcare reform, cross-border trade,
In Europe, pharmaceutical firms and regulators are managing a the acceleration of generics to market and increased patient
transition following the implementation of new medicines legislation contributions have further increased the focus on pricing.
at the end of 2005. Significant changes are being implemented Currently, there are no government price controls over private
including approval procedures, post marketing requirements, sector purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical
manufacturing controls, labelling requirements, pharmacovigilance manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs in order to
processes and an increased emphasis on transparency of be eligible for reimbursement under Medicaid and other federal
regulatory processes. healthcare programmes.
The climate of change is set to continue, with the finalisation of a new Medicare
Paediatric Regulation at the end of 2006. This Regulation is aimed at In 2006, the US Medicare program, a federally funded healthcare
stimulating industry research into paediatric indications, via intellectual insurance program benefiting senior citizens and certain disabled
property incentives. Implementation activities will continue during Americans, included coverage for prescription medicines. This is a
2007/08, and the new provisions will become operational in 2008. new benefit under the Medicare program and the most dramatic
change in the program since its inception in the 1960s. The coverage
The EU Commission is championing a ‘Better Regulation’ initiative to
is voluntary, includes brand-name and generic drugs and is open to
cut red tape and over-regulation of Industry. GSK is actively supporting
the 41 million Americans with Medicare coverage.
this initiativeand a similar one in the UK. For example in the UK, GSK
has made 50 wide ranging better regulation proposals to the A number of competing private organisations provide the new benefit
government, covering significant areas of interest to the Group. Many with premiums subsidised by the government. Benefits must satisfy
have been positively received and some are being considered for a minimum standard outlined in federal law. While the law provides
incorporation into new regulations. incentives for manufacturers to negotiate prices with private plans, it
does not provide for government price controls. The government
In the USA, the safety of prescription drugs remains a primary focus
provides additional help to more than 14 million people on Medicare
of the FDA and congressional oversight committees are evaluating
with limited incomes and resources. Those qualifying beneficiaries
the ability and resourcing of the FDA to continue to provide this
pay no or reduced premiums and deductibles, and low copayments
important role. New safety-related legislation has been proposed by
for their prescriptions.
Congress which may be enacted in 2007, with likely impact on the
pharmaceutical industry. As in Europe, evaluation of benefit and risk Value for money
continues to be an important consideration for approval of a new Payers around the world are concerned about the cost of healthcare
drug by the FDA. and the pricing of medicines. The requirement to satisfy healthcare
purchasers on value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for
The FDAis in the second year of its Critical Path Initiative to facilitate
product acceptance over and above the regulatory tests of safety,
innovation in drug development. New tools and processes such as
efficacy and quality.
pharmacogenomics, surrogate markers of efficacy and manufacturing
innovations are being pursued to enhance development of safe and While it is appropriate for payers to seek value for money when
effective drugs. The pharmaceutical industry, including GSK, is purchasing medicines, this often translates into cost-containment
collaborating with the FDA and National Institutes of Health in a measures that delay patient access to new medicines and make it
number of these areas, including evaluation of new biomarkers. difficult even for significantly improved therapies to achieve a price
that reflects added value. Healthcare budgets could be managed in
The US government is making information about the benefits and
a more strategic and long-term manner. Focus should shift to value
risks of prescription drugs more readily available via the Internet,
not cost and pricing should reflect value. Value should be defined
including the full prescribing information which is posted within one
broadly. What matters is whether a medicine works and responds to
day of approval. GSK is now providing product labelling to the FDA
medical and patient needs. If so, it should be rewarded appropriately.
in an electronic format which allows easier access to the key details
in the prescribing information.
GSK is well placed to manage effectively these changes in the external
regulatory environment.
GSK Annual Report 2006
22
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERBusiness review
Regulatory environment
continued
Payers must also allocate their resources efficiently to provide the best The patent position with respect to the active ingredients in significant
health outcomes. Attention should be focused in three areas: products is as follows:
prevention, innovationand better management of chronic diseases.
Avandiaand Avandamet. The patent on rosiglitazone is not due to
As part of this triple solution, innovative medicines and vaccines will
expire until 2012a,c (USA) and 2013b (Europe). Patents on the
play a key role by preventing, or providing better treatments for
commercial form of the active ingredient rosiglitazone maleate are not
expensive diseases such as cervical cancer, breast cancer, asthma,
due to expire until 2015 (USA) and 2014b (Europe). Litigation
Alzheimer’s and diabetes.
challenging the validity of the patents protecting these products is
It is not possible to predict whetherand to what extent, the Group’s ongoing in the USAe.
business will be affected by future legislative and regulatory Avodart. The patent on dutasteride is not due to expire until 2015a
developments relating to specific pharmaceutical products or their (USA) and 2017b(Europe).
price.
Boniva. The patent on ibandronate is not due to expire until 2012a,b
Regulation – Consumer Healthcare (USAand Europe).
The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation for Combivir. The patent on the specific combination of lamivudine and
the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of zidovudine is not due to expire until 2012(USA) and 2013b (Europe).
products. In many countries, high standards of technical appraisal Coreg. GSK is the exclusive licensee under the US patent on carvedilol,
involve a lengthy approval process before a new product is launched. which is due to expire in 2007a,c.
National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the switch Epivir. The patent on lamivudine is not due to expire until 2010a,c
of products from prescription to OTC. The requirements include long- (USA) and 2011b(Europe).
term experience of the quality, safety and efficacy of the product in a
Imigran/Imitrex. The patent on sumatriptan is not due to expire until
wide patient population and data to confirm that the relevant
2009c(USA) and has expired in Europe (except Cyprus (2007), Italy
condition is both self-limiting and easily diagnosed by the consumer.
and Switzerland (2008)). Litigation challenging the validity of the
patent protecting this product in the USA has been settlede.
Intellectual property
Lamictal. The patent on lamotrigine is not due to expire until 2009a,c
Intellectual property is a key business asset for GSK. The effective legal
(USA). Litigation challenging the validity of this patent in the USA has
protection of intellectual property is critical in ensuring a reasonable
been settled. In Europe, the corresponding patent has expired and
return on investment in R&D. Intellectual property can be protected
generic competition exists.
by patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain
name registrations. Levitrad. GSK has co-promotion rights under the USpatent on
vardenafil,which is not due to expire until 2018.
Certain markets, including the USA, the EU and Canada also provide
a period of regulatory data exclusivity to qualifying drugs which are Lexiva/Telzir. GSK is the exclusive licensee under the patent on
new chemical entities or which are new formulations or uses of fosamprenavir, which is not due to expire until 2017 (USA) and
marketed drugs. Manufacturers of generic drugs may, following any 2019b(Europe).
period of data exclusivity, launch, or attempt to launch,
Paxil/Seroxat. The patent on the commercial form of paroxetine
generic versions of patented drugs prior to normal patent expiry, expired in 2006 in Europe and is due to expire in 2007cin the USA.
arguing that the relevant patents are invalid and/or are not infringed
Litigation relating to the validity and infringement of a patent directed
by their product. Significant litigation concerning these challenges is
to a method of manufacture of paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate
summarised in Note 43 to the financial statements, is ongoing in the USAe. Generic competition on Paxilinstant release
‘Legal proceedings’.
(IR) and oral suspension has commenced in the USA, Europe and
Patents certain other markets. Paxil CRis protected by a formulation patent
GSK’s policy is to seek to obtain patent protection on all protectable that is not due to expire until 2012. A generic manufacturer has
inventions discovered or developed through its R&D activities. Patent applied for FDA approval of a generic form of PaxilCR asserting non-
protection for new active ingredients is available in most significant infringement of this patente.
markets, and protection can also be obtainedforexample for new Requip. The patent on ropinirole is not due to expire until 2007a(USA)
pharmaceutical formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses and 2008b(Europe). A patent relating to the use of ropinirole in
and special devices for administering products. Patents protecting Parkinson’s disease is not due to expire until 2008 (USA) and 2011b
new active ingredients are generally applied for early in the
(Europe). Litigation challenging the validity of the Parkinson’s use
development process. Since the term of a patent in most countries patent is ongoing in the USAe.
is a set period from the filing date, typically20years, the effective
term depends on how long a product is in development before Seretide/Advair.The patent on the specific combination of salmeterol
launch. This leads to a variation in patent term on a product by xinafoate and fluticasone propionate is not due to expire until 2010
product basis, although in a number of markets, including the USA (USA) and 2013b(Europe). An application for re-issue of the US patent
and Europe,it is possible in certain circumstances to obtain a partial has been allowed by the USPatent and Trademark Office (USPTO)e.
restoration of patent term to compensate for the length of the The UK patent has been revoked by the UKcourts. Patents on the
development process. individual ingredients have expired in the UK. In the USA, the patent
on salmeterol xinafoate does not expire until 2008.
GSK Annual Report 2006
23
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERBusiness review
Regulatory environment
continued
Serevent.The patent on salmeterol xinafoate is not due to expire until Responsibility for environment, health and safety
2008 in the USA. In Europe, the patent has expired, except France
Environment, health and safety (EHS)is a key element of corporate
(2008b) and Italy (2009b).
responsibility for the Group and has a high priority. Responsibility for
Trizivir. The patent on the method of treatment using a combination of EHS is at the highest level. There is a corporate group reporting to the
lamivudine, zidovudine and abacavir does not expire until 2016 (USA) General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing
and 2016 (Europe). governance and leadership on EHS issues. The head of this group
makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team (CET) and the Valtrex. The patent on valaciclovir is not due to expire until 2009a
Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board. Within
(USA) and 2009b(Europe, except Greece and Spain 2008). Litigation
the businessesoperations managers are responsible for EHS and are
challenging the validity of the patent in the USAeis ongoing.
supported by site-based EHS and occupational health staff.
Wellbutrin SR, Wellbutrin XL andZyban.The patent on the active
EHS strategy and plan
ingredient has expired. There is now generic competition for the
GSK has a strategic planning process for EHS that looks forward 10
sustained release (SR)and instant release (IR) forms in the USA, and
years but is reviewed every year. The plan is aligned with the GSK
generic competition for the 300mg dosage form of Wellbutrin XL
business drivers and includes management objectives with
commenced in the USA in December 2006. In Europe, regulatory
performance measures and targets. In 2006, GSK’s progress in the first
data exclusivity provides protection until 2009 in some markets.
five years of the EHS Plan for Excellence was evaluated and a10year
Litigation is ongoing in the USA relating to formulation patents
plan extending to 2015 was developed.
covering Wellbutrin XLthat expirein 2018e.
The first five years had focused on establishing the fundamentals and
Ziagen. The patent on abacavir is not due to expire until 2012a,c(USA)
preparing programmes that would contribute to the environmental
and 2014b(Europe).
sustainability of the business. Successes in 2006 included greater
Zofran. The patent on ondansetron has expired in the USA and integration of EHS into the manufacturing planning process,
Europe, (except France (2007b) and Italy (2008b)). A patent on use in introduction of EHSdirectors in manufacturing executive teams,
treating emesis expired in 2006. In the USA, generic entry of establishment of new performance targets, establishment of new
ondansetron injection and oral solution dosage forms commenced in targets for audit scores, that will be the same for GSK’s own
November 2006 and on tablet and orally disintegrating tablet dosage manufacturing sites and contract manufacturers, publication of
forms in December 2006. Generic competition has also now positions on pharmaceuticals in the environment, the selection of
commenced in a number of countries in Europe. hazardous chemicals in manufacturing and energy conservation.
The next phase of the plan strengthens the focus on operational
a) Including granted or pending patent term restoration under the Hatch-Waxman Act
b) Including granted or pending extension of term by national or European efficiency and renews the commitment to stakeholder engagement.
supplementary protection certificates The three aspirations for 2006 to 2015 are embedding EHS in the
c) Including granted or pending extension of term for paediatric exclusivity
d) A registered trademark of Bayer AG business, environmental sustainability and open and transparent
e) See Note 43to financial statements ‘Legal proceedings’. stakeholder relations.
Trademarks Strategic focus in 2006
All of GSK’s pharmaceutical products are protected by registered The plan provides an area of special focus each year. In 2006, the
trademarks in major markets. There may be local variations, for focus was on embedding EHSin the business, making EHS an integral
example, in the USA the trademark Paxilis used instead of Seroxatand part of GSK’s business processes and continuous improvement culture
Advairis used instead of Seretide. with the participation of all employees. The goal is to develop a culture
where every employee is mindful of the importance of safe working
Trademark protection may generally be extended for as long as the
and protecting the environment. While this was the 2006 focus it will
trademark is used by renewing it when necessary. GSK’s trademarks
take more than one year to accomplish.
on pharmaceutical products are important for maintaining the brand
identity of the product upon expiration of the patent.
The Consumer Healthcare trademarks are particularly important, as
the business is very brand orientated and many products do not have
patent protection.
GSK Annual Report 2006
24
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERBusiness review
Regulatory environment
continued
Part of embedding EHS in GSK meant each business developed its GSK selected its measures of performance improvement based on
own plan for moving EHS forward based on its own risks and the potential for adverse impact on people or the environment,
opportunities. Some accomplishments against the objectives that business continuity or business reputation. Most of the measures
contributed to the overall focus were: selected are similar to those reported by other companies and are
recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative, a long-term, multi-
•to reduce the need for respiratory protective equipment
stakeholder, international undertaking,to develop and disseminate
occupational hygiene monitoring data were utilised to focus
globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines. Targets have
attention on the processes in most need of improvement
been set to eliminate CFCs from all uses by 2010 and each year to
•to improve the efficiency of manufacturing processesit was agreed reduce energy use and non-hazardous waste disposed by 1%, reduce
that all new products launched from 2006 to 2010 will be evaluated water use and Volatile organic compound (VOC) releases by 2% and
using green chemistry tools with a target to double the reduce chemical oxygen demand of wastewater by 3%. All targets
manufacturing efficiency,which will result in waste per tonne of are normalised by sales.
product from new processes being reduced by half in comparison
EHSperformance
to existing processes
The performance in 2006 was:
•to improve EHS management systemsa target was set to improve
•CFC emissions from patient use of inhalers down 36% per £ sales
audit scores and all pharmaceutical manufacturing sites will be
required to be certified to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 by 2010 •volatile organic compound emissions down 22% per £ sales
•to minimise EHS risks arising from new product introduction and •chemical oxygen demand in wastewater down 21% per £ sales
process changes EHS requirements and sustainability principles were
•non-hazardous waste disposed down 15% per £ sales
incorporated into the product development process
•energy use down 8% per £ sales
•to improve EHS performance of R&D processes novel technologies
will be explored. •water use down 5% per £ sales.
EHS audits Sustainability
As part of its governance responsibility, GSK conducts EHS audits of In the work towards sustainability, GSK is addressing the economic,
its sites, assessing performance against the EHSstandards and environmental and social issues in research, manufacturing, sales and
assigning quantitative performance scores. In 2006, 32 sites were distribution of its medicines. Sustainability starts with healthcare
audited, 12 of these achieved audit scores of 80% or better. No site solutions found by R&D and continues with sustainable solutions in
scored less than 50%. As part of the continuous improvement manufacturing and sales. R&D is considering improving operational
process, progress was monitored on actions arising from issues raised efficiency for new products. In the future, the EHS plan for excellence
on all audits. proposes investigating the use of renewable resources. The Group
seeks dialogue with external stakeholders and considers their views
As part of the commitment to corporate responsibility and the pro-
when developing approaches to sustainable development. More
active management of the GSK manufacturing and supply base, 36
information on EHS programmes and performance may be found on
suppliers were also assessed, representing about 10% of priority
the GSKwebsite.
suppliers. This process evaluated the management of key EHS risks
and impacts, as well as human rights issues, based on the Group’s
requirements for priority suppliers. Recommendations were made for
improvements where needed.
EHStargets
As part of the EHS plan, targets are set every five years.2006 was the
baseline year for the next group of five-year targets. In the 2005 EHS
reportachievements against the targets for 2001-2005 were reported.
Progress towards meeting the targets for 2006-2010 will be tracked
every year. Final data for 2006 will be published on the website
www.gsk.com.
GSK Annual Report 2006
25
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERGSK Annual Report 2006
26
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
World Market
World economy World market – pharmaceuticals
The global economy remained relatively robust in 2006, with positive Global pharmaceutical sales increased by8% in 2006 to £328billion.
growth in many markets such as the USA and China.World Gross World market by Value % of Growth
domestic product growth was estimated at 3.9%, up from 3.5% in geographic region £bn total £%
2005. Analysts expect it to fall back in 2007 and towards the end of USA 145.0 44 9
2006, the OECD trimmed its 2007 global growth forecast to 2.5%, Europe 92.8 28 6
the lowest rate since 2003. France 17.6 5 4
Equity marketsroseduring 2006 and concerns regarding inflation Germany 16.6 5 3
started torecedeas the year progressedonly to return in some regions UK 10.8 3 3
later in the year. Global oil prices hit $78-a-barrel highs in mid-July Italy 10.5 3 7
followingthe crisis between Israel and Lebanon. As 2006 closed oil Japan 31.3 10 (3)
fell towards the $60 mark, a levelaroundwhich many analystsfeelit Asia Pacific 23.3 7 14
will trade through2007, barring unforeseen events. Latin America 15.9 5 21
Middle East, Africa 11.3 3 13
In the USA,GDP growth slipped from a two year high of 5.5%in the Canada 8.3 3 19
first quarter of 2006 to 2.2% in the fourth quarter. This performance
Total 327.9 100 8
was impacted to asignificant extent by a weakeninghousing market
and a drop in new housing starts that is expected to continue
Growth in the US market hasincreasedto9%,but it still represents
throughout 2007. During 2006, US interest ratesrosefrom 4.29%
44% of the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with
to 5.25%, the seventeenth rise in two and half years. In December,
30% a decade ago.
the US dollar fell to its lowest level for almost two yearsagainst the
Euro and a 14-year low againstSterling.In 2007, the US economy is At 30th September 2006, GSK heldsecondposition in the world
expected to experience a soft-landing rather than a major slowdown, pharmaceutical market with a market share of6.3%, behind Pfizer
with growth predicted to be in a range2.5%to 3%. with a market share of 8%. GSK had six of the world’s top 60
pharmaceutical products. These were Avandia, Lamictal,
After its rapid expansion in 2004 and 2005, the Chinese economy
Seretide/Advair,Valtrex,Wellbutrinand Zofran.
grew byover 10%in 2006, whileIndia reportedgrowth of9.1%.
India’s Sensex Index gained 46% in value while Japan’s Nikkei 225 World market – Value % of Growth
Index moved ahead by 7% for the year. Japan is currently experiencing top five therapeutic classes £bn total CER% £%
the longest period of uninterrupted growth since the Second World
Cardiovascular 54.5 17 6 7
War, reporting GDP growth of 3.8% at the year-end.
Central nervous system 54.0 16 7 8
Eurozone interest rates began the year at 2.25% before rising in five Alimentary tract and metabolic 39.8 12 7 9
separate steps to 3.5% at the year end. Economic growth was3.3% Anti-infectives (bacterial,
across the continent, up from 1.4% in 2005. Germany expanded by viral and fungal) excluding
3.7%, France by2%and Spain by4.0%. In the UK, interest rates rose vaccines 33.2 10 1 3
to 5% in November, with the FTSE 100 gaining almost 11% in 2006. Respiratory 21.7 7 5 6
Economic growth was2.7%, with the Treasury and the Bank of
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30thSeptember 2006.)
England expecting growth of more than 3% in 2007.
Exchange
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In 2006, the US dollarfellby14% against the pound,to $1.96at the
year-end. The year-end rates for the Euro weakened by 1% and the
Japanese Yen by15% againstSterling.Business review
Products and competition
Pharmaceutical products Anti-virals
Combivir, a combination of Retrovirand Epivir, has consolidated the
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products are currently
position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the
directed toeightmain therapeutic areas. An analysis of salesby these
cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens. Physician
therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are
acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on minimising
setout below:
the pill burden faced by patients.
2006 2005 2004 Ziagenis a reverse transcriptase inhibitor. The product’s potency, ease Turnover by therapeutic area £m £m £m
of use and resistance profile allow it to play a significant role
Respiratory 4,995 5,054 4,394
in a variety of highly active, well tolerated and simplified HIV
Central nervous system 3,642 3,219 3,462
treatment regimens.
Anti-virals 2,827 2,598 2,359
Metabolic 1,875 1,495 1,251 Triziviris a combination of Combivirand Ziagen, combining three anti-
Vaccines 1,692 1,389 1,194 HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,636 1,331 932
Epzicom/Kivexa, approved for use in the USA and Europe, is a
Anti-bacterials/anti-malarials 1,369 1,519 1,547
combination of Epivirand Ziagenthat is taken as one tablet with
Oncology and emesis 1,069 1,016 934
once-daily dosing for HIV/AIDS in combination with at least one other
Other 973 1,040 1,027
anti-HIV drug.
20,078 18,661 17,100
Lexiva/Telziris a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV that is well
Products and all their formulations may not be approved for all tolerated and more convenient than Agenerase,which it supersedes.
indications in all markets where they are available. Lexiva may be taken twice daily or once daily when boosted
with ritonavir.
Respiratory
Seretide/Advair, a combination of Sereventand Flixotide, offers along- Zeffixhas been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China and
acting bronchodilator and an anti-inflammatory in a single inhaler. It other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
is approved for the treatment of asthma and COPD. Valtrexis a treatment for episodic genital herpes as well as the long
Flixotide/Floventand Becotide/Becloventare inhaled steroids for the term suppression and reduction of transmission of genital herpes,
treatment of inflammation associated with asthma and COPD. zoster (shingles), cold sores and chicken pox. Valtrex supersedes
Zovirax, which is also used to treat herpes infections.
Sereventis a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and
COPD, and Ventolinis a selective short-acting bronchodilator used to Metabolic
treat bronchospasm. Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the
underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes.
Flixonase/Flonaseand Beconaseare steroid intra-nasal preparations for
the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis. Avandametis a combination of Avandiaand metformin HCI,it is the
first medicine that targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose
Central nervous system (CNS)
production in one convenient pill.
Seroxat/Paxilis a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) for the
treatment of major depressive disorder, panic, obsessive compulsive Avandarylis acombination of Avandiaand Amaryl, a Sanofi-Aventis
disorder, post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder,and product.Avandaryltargets insulin resistance and stimulates pancreatic
generalised anxiety disorder. A controlled release formulation, Paxil CR, insulin production.
is also available in the USA. Bonviva/Bonivais a long-actingbisphosphonate available in once-
Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA and some monthly oral and quarterly injection forms for the treatment
international markets in normal, sustained-release (SR) and once-daily of osteoporosis.
(XL)formulations.
Vaccines
Imigran/Imitrexis a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment GSK markets over 30 vaccines worldwide, of which more than half
ofsevere or frequent migraine and cluster headache and has become are combination vaccines to protect children, adolescents and/or
the reference product in this sector. Naramig/Amergeis also a 5HT1 adults againstup tosix diseasesat the same time.
receptor agonist indicated for the treatment ofmigraine. Infanrixis GSK’s range of paediatric vaccine combinations. Infanrix
Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is also indicated for provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis
bipolar disorder. (whopping cough). Infanrix penta(Europe)/Pediarix(USA, Canada)
provides additional protection against hepatitis B and polio, and
Requipis a specific dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist indicated for Infanrix hexafurther adds protection against Haemophilus influenzae
the treatment ofParkinson’s disease and Restless LegsSyndrome (RLS). type b, which is a cause of meningitis. In the USA, Boostrixis available
to add protection against pertussis (whopping cough) to the routine
tetanus/diptheria booster administered to teenagers.
In GSK’s hepatitis vaccines range, Havrixprotects against hepatitis A
and Engerix-Bagainst hepatitis B.
GSK Annual Report 2006
27
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERGSK Annual Report 2006
28
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Products and competition
continued
Twinrixis the only available combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, Integrilinis a GP IIb-IIIa inhibitor, approved in the EU for the prevention
protecting against both diseases with one vaccine and available in of early myocardial infarction in patients with unstable angina or non-
both adult and paediatric strengths. In Europe, FENDrix, a vaccine to Q-wave MI.
prevent hepatitis B in patients with renal insufficiency including high-
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
risk groups such as pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients, is
Augmentinis a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the treatment
available from 15 years of age onwards.
of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is particularly
GSK added Fluviralto its portfolio of products when it acquired the effective against respiratory tract infections. Augmentin ES-600is an
Canadian vaccine manufacturer IDBiomedical Corporation in extra strength suspension specifically designed to treat children with
December 2005. Fluviralis marketed in Canada. In 2006, the same recurrent or persistent middle ear infections. Augmentin XRis an extra
‘flu vaccine was approved by the USFood and Drug Administration strength tablet form for adults to combat difficult to treat infections.
(FDA) for the active immunisation of adults 18 years and older against
Ceftin/Zinnat is an oral antibiotic used primarily for community-
influenza disease under thebrandFluLaval. Fluviraland FluLavaladd
acquired infections of the lower respiratory tract.
to Fluarix GSK’s seasonal ‘flu vaccine, which is distributed in 79
countries including theUSA. Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and
prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
GSK also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and rubella vaccine,
Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid fever, and Varilrix, Lapdapis an effective and well tolerated therapy for the treatment of
a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox. Priorix-Tetra, GSK’s new malaria, which has been developed through a public/private
combination vaccine to prevent measles, mumps, rubella and varicella collaboration.
(MMRV) was firstlaunched in Germany in August 2006. In addition,
Oncology and emesis
the Group markets a range of vaccines to prevent meningitis under
Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with
the umbrella name Mencevax. GSK’s new Hib-MenC vaccine,
chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in
Menitorix is now available in the UK. GSK’s meningitis vaccine
bothoral and injectable forms. It is also approved for use in the
portfolio will be complimented by new meningitis conjugate vaccines
prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
in the near future.
Hycamtinis a second line treatmentfor ovarian, cervical andsmall
As part of its paediatric franchise, GSK continued to roll out the launch
cell lung cancer.
of its vaccine against rotavirus induced gastroenteritis, Rotarixwhich
is now launched in90countries worldwide. Rotavirus vaccination has Bexxaris a treatment for patients with CD20 follicular, non-Hodgkin’s
been included in the national vaccination calendar of five Latin lymphoma with and without transformation whose disease is
American countries where Rotarixwill be available free at public health refractory to rituximab and who have relapsed following
clinics, as part ofgovernmentalpaediatric immunisation programmes. chemotherapy.
Cardiovascular and urogenital Arranon (nelarabine) a treatment for patients with T-cell acute
Coregis an alpha/beta blocker which has been proven to be effective lymphoblastic leukaemia and T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma, received
intreating patients with mild, moderate and severe heart failure, heart US approval in 2005 and was submitted for European approval
attack or hypertension. GSK has sole marketing rights in the USA and in2006.
Canada. Generic versions of the product are available in Canada.
Other
Levitrais a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction. This category includes Betnovate, thehigher potency Dermovateand
GSK has co-promotion rights in the USA and more than 20 the newer Cutivate, which are anti-inflammatory steroid products
other markets. used to treat skin diseases suchas eczema and psoriasis, Relafen, a
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug for the treatment of arthritis,
Avodartis a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic
and Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range
hyperplasia. A large clinical outcome study is underway examining its
ofgastric acid related disorders.
efficacy in the prevention of prostate cancer.
Arixtra, a selective Factor Xa inhibitor, is indicated for the prophylaxis
of deep vein thrombosis, which may lead to pulmonary embolism, in
hip fracture surgery, knee replacement, hip replacement surgery and
abdominal surgery. It is also indicated for the treatment of deep vein
thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.
Fraxiparineis a low-molecular weight heparin indicated for prophylaxis
of thromboembolic disorders (particularly deep vein thrombosis and
pulmonary embolism) in general surgery and in orthopedic surgery,
treatment of deep vein thrombosis and prevention of clotting
during hemodialysis.GSK Annual Report 2006
29
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Products and competition
continued
Pharmaceuticals competition Anti-virals
GSK is a pioneer in the HIV market, launching AZT (Retrovir) in 1987
The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. GSK’s principal
and Epivirin 1995, which today are available as Combivirin a single
competitors range from small to largepharmaceutical companies
tablet, a cornerstone of HIV combination therapy. The launches of
often with substantial resources. Some of these companies and their
Ziagen, Agenerase, Trizivir, Lexiva and Epzicom have broadened
major products are mentioned below.
theGroup’s portfolio of HIV products. Major competitors in the HIV
Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other products market include Gilead, Bristol Myers Squibb, Abbott, Roche and
during the period of patent protection and, once off patent, from Boehringer Ingelheim.
generic versions. The manufacturers of generic products typically
Valtrexhas strengthened the Group’s position in the anti-herpes area,
donot bear significant research and development or education and
where GSK’s Valtrex and Zovirax compete with Novartis’ Famvir.
marketing development costs and consequently areable to offer their
Valtrex is a market leader, whilst Zovirax faces competition from
products at considerably lower prices than thebranded competitors.
generic acyclovir. In the hepatitis B market, GSK’s Zeffixwas the first
A research and development based pharmaceutical company will
anti-viral on the market. Gilead’s Hepsera was the second. The Group
normally seek to achieve a sufficiently high profit margin and sales
has secured marketing rights to Hepserain some key markets.
volume during the period of patent protection to repay the original
investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research forthe Metabolic
future. Competition from generic products generally occurs as patents The major competitor for Avandiais Takeda Chemical’s Actos, which
in major markets expire. Increasingly patent challenges are made prior is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA. Takeda also market
to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent is not valid and/or ActoplusMet (a combination of Metformin HCI and Actos) in the USA.
that it is not infringed by the generic product. Following the loss of
Monthly Boniva/Bonvivacompetes with Merck’s weekly Fosamax and
patent protection, generic products rapidly capture a large share of
Proctor & Gamble/Sanofi-Aventis’s weekly Actonel. Generic Fosamax
the market, particularly in the USA.
(alendronate) is now available in several EUmarketsincluding UK and
GSK believes that remaining competitive is dependent upon the Germany, and also in Canada.
discovery and development of new products, together with effective
Vaccines
marketing of existing products. Within the pharmaceutical industry,
The vaccine market is dominated by five key players. GSK’s major
the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may
competitors include SanofiPasteur (SP), Merck, Novartis and Wyeth.
affect pricing levels or result in changing patterns of product use.
Within the paediatric vaccine field, Infanrix’smain competitor is SP’s
There can be no assurance that products will not become outmoded,
range of DTPa-based combination vaccines, although the Infanrix
notwithstanding patent or trademark protection. In addition,
hexa combination is the only available hexavalent paediatric
increased government and other pressures for physicians and patients
combination in Europe.
to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name medicines,
may increase competition for products that are no longer protected Cardiovascular and urogenital
by patent. GSK markets Coregin the USA where its major competitors are Toprol
XL and generic betablockers. Avodartcompetes directly with Merck’s
Respiratory
Proscar within the BPH market. The Group has co-promotion rights
GSK’s respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of Seretide/Advair.
in the USA for Levitra, which faces competition from Pfizer’s Viagra
Major respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially in
and Lilly’sCialis.
the USA, Symbicort from AstraZeneca and Spiriva from Pfizer/
Boehringer Ingelheim. Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials
Generic versions of both Augmentinand Ceftin/Zinnatare available
CNS disorders
in the USA. Augmentinalso faces generic competition in various
Major competitors in the USA to Paxilare its generic forms, as well as
European countries. Augmentin XR and Augmentin ES compete
generic fluoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lilly’s Prozac, generic
against a broad range of other branded and generic antibiotics.
sertraline, the generic form of Pfizer’s Zoloft,Cymbalta from Eli Lilly,
Malarone’ssafety profile and convenient dosing regimen have helped
Forest Laboratories’ Celexa and Lexapro, and Effexor XR from Wyeth.
put this product in a strong position versus mefloquine for
The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrinare generic forms
malaria prophylaxis.
of bupropion, the generic forms of SSRIs, Lexapro, Effexor XR, and
Cymbalta. Paxil CR and the once-daily Wellbutrin XLhelp to retain a Oncology and emesis
strong presence in the anti-depressant market, given the availability ZofranprovidedGSK with a leadership position in the anti-emetic
of both generic paroxetine and bupropion in the USA. Generic market where competitor companies include Roche, Sanofi-Aventis
competition for Seroxat/Paxil has also occurred in a number of and more recently MGI and Merck. Generic competitors became
other markets. available late in 2006. Zofrannow has full generic competition in the
USA. Major competitors in the diverse cytotoxic market include Bristol
The major competitors for Lamictal in epilepsy are J&J’s Dilantin and
Myers Squibb, Sanofi-Aventis, Novartis and Roche/Genentech. GSK’s
generic phenytoin, Novartis’s Tegretol/Tegretol XR and generic
cytotoxic portfolio, led by Hycamtin, currently holds a relatively small
carbamazepine. UCB’s Keppra and Abbot’s Depakote/Depakote ER.
market position.
InBipolar the major competitors are generic Lithium, other anti-
epileptics including Abbott’s Depakote/Depakote ERand the atypical
anti-psychotics including AstraZeneca’s Seroquel. The major
competitors for Imitrex/Imigranare AstraZeneca’s Zomig, Merck’s
Maxalt and Pfizer’s Relpax.GSK Annual Report 2006
30
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Products and competition
continued
Consumer Healthcare products Oral care
The leading Oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal consumer healthcare products are in three
under the Aquafresh, Odol, SensodyneandMacleansbrand names,
major areas. An analysis of sales by these areas isset out below:
and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafreshand Dr Best
names. In addition, denture care products are available principally
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m under the Polident, Poligripand Coregabrand names.
OTC medicines 1,496 1,437 1,400 Nutritional healthcare
Oral care 993 943 913 The leading products in this category are Lucozadeenergy and sports
Nutritional healthcare 658 619 573 drinks, Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink, and Horlicks, a range
of milk-based malted food and chocolate drinks.
3,147 2,999 2,886
Major products, which are not necessarily sold in all markets, are: Consumer Healthcare competition
Category Product GSK holds leading global positions in all its key consumer product
Over-the-counter medicines areas. Worldwide it is the third largest in Oral care and in OTC
Analgesics Panadol medicines. In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading position in
Dermatologicals Zovirax the UK, India and Ireland.
Abreva
The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business
External nasal dilators Breathe Right
operates has become ever more challenging:
Gastro-intestinal Tums
Citrucel •consumers are demanding better quality, better value and
Respiratory tract Contac improved performance
Beechams
•retailers have consolidated and globalised which has strengthened
Smoking control Commit
their negotiation power
Nicorette
NicoDerm CQ •manufacturers are consolidating, leading to more aggressive
NiQuitin CQ competition across all elements of the marketing mix
Nicabate CQ
•cycle times for innovation have reduced.
Natural wellness support Abtei
The main competitors include the major international companies
Oral care Aquafresh
Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson,Procter & Gamble, Unilever
Dr Best
and Wyeth. In addition, there are many other companies that
Macleans
compete with GSK in certain markets.
Odol
Odol Med 3 The major competitor products in OTC medicines are:
Polident
•in the USA: Metamucil (laxative), Pepcid (indigestion) and private
Poligrip
label smoking control products
Sensodyne
Nutritional healthcare Lucozade •in the UK: Lemsip (cold remedy), Nurofen and Anadin (analgesics),
Ribena and Nicorette and Nicotinell (smoking control treatments).
Horlicks
In Oral care the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolive’s Colgate
and Procter & Gamble’s Crest.
Over-the-counter medicines
The leading products are Panadol, a widely available paracetamol/ In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicksare Ovaltine
acetaminophen analgesic, Nicorettegum in the USA, the NicoDerm, and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks. The competitors to
NiQuitin CQ and Nicabaterange of smoking control products, Tums, Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Lucozade
a calcium-based antacid, Citrucellaxative, Contacfor the treatment competes with other energy drinks.
of colds, Abtei, a natural medicines and vitamin range, and Zovirax
and Abrevafor the treatment of cold sores. In December 2006, the
company acquired Breathe Rightnasal strips that gently lift open nasal
passages to provide better breathing, and FiberChoicedaily fibre
supplements, through the acquisition of CNS, Inc.
GSK’s portfolio will be strengthened further in 2007 with the US
launch of alli, a new treatment for weight-loss.GSK Annual Report 2006
31
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2006
Pharmaceutical turnover Central nervous system (CNS)
CNS sales increased 15% to £3.6 billion. Sales increased in the USA
All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant
and International, but declined in Europe due to generic competition.
exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise stated. The sterling growth
Total Seroxat/Paxilsales grew 4% to £620 million, due to strong
rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by
growth of Paxil CRin the USA and Paxil IRin Japan partly offset by
therapeutic area on page32and by geographic region on page33.
generic competition to Paxil IRin Europe.
Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2006 was £20,078 million compared
with £18,661 million in 2005, an increase of 9% CER.Within the Total Wellbutrinsalesgrew 24% to £900 million.Salesof Wellbutrin
Group’s portfolio, turnover of new products first launched in a major XL,aonce-daily product,grew 25% to £798 million.In December
market within the last five years accounted for 27% (2005 – 24%) 2006, generic competition to the Wellbutrin XL 300mg tablet
of total turnover and grew by 20% to £5,333 million (2005 – £4,478 (approximately 60% of Wellbutrinsales) entered the US market.
million). Turnover of the more established, franchise products
Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder,
amounted to £11,709 million (2005 – £10,933 million), representing
grew 19% to just under £1 billion, benefiting from its new indication
58% of total turnover, and increased 9% compared with last year.
to treat one of the most serious forms of epilepsy – primary generalised
Turnover of older products, now less actively promoted, was £3,036
tonic-clonic seizures. Lamictalis also the only medicine with long-term
million (2005 –£3,250 million),representing 15% of total turnover,
clinical data that demonstrates that it can delay the onset of depressive
and declined by 5%. In sterling terms total pharmaceutical turnover
episodes of bipolar disorder. In November, GSK submitted Lamictal XR,
increased 8%, 1% less than CER due principally to the strength of
a new once daily treatment,tothe FDA for treatment of epilepsy. The
Sterling against major International currencies.
company intends to present data on Lamictal XR at the American
Academy of Neurology meeting in April 2007.
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
Sales of Requip, for Parkinson’s diseaseand Restless Legs Syndrome
GSK’s abilityin 2006to deliver continued pharmaceutical turnover
(RLS), grew 74% to £268 million and, in December, the FDA accepted
growthwas primarily due to an exceptionally broad product portfolio
GSK’s file for approval ofthe new formulationRequipCR.
ofhigh-value growth productscoupled withsalesandmarketing
excellence. These growth products include Seretide/Advair, the Anti-virals
Avandiaproduct group, Vaccines, Lamictal, Valtrex, Coreg, Requip, Total sales of HIV products were £1.5 billion, down 1%. Competition
Avodartand Boniva. to older products, Combivirdown 9% to £528 million and Epivir
down 21% to £202 million, wasmostlyoffset by strong sales growth
Respiratory
of new products Epzicom/Kivexawhich more than doubled to £241
GSK continues to be the global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals
million and Lexiva/Ageneraseup 18% to £131 million.
with sales of its three key products, Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Flovent
and Serevent amounting to £4.3 billion, up 9%. Total sales of Sales of Valtrex,rose 24% to £845 million, with US sales up 30% to
Seretide/Advair, for asthma and COPD, rose 11% to £3.3 billion. In £600 million driven by patients switching to suppression therapy.
the USA, sales grew 13% to £1.9 billion. In Europe, sales grew 10%
Metabolic
to £1.1 billion and in International markets, sales grew 9% to over
GSK launched Avandiafor the treatment of type 2 diabetes in 1999
£300 million. Market share by value in the anti-asthma and COPD
and a combination product, Avandamet, for blood sugar control in
therapy class was29% in Europe and33% in the USA, an increase
2002. The product group was expanded further in February 2006
of2percentage points in Europe and aflatmarket share growth in
with the launch in the USA of a fixed-dose combination treatment,
the USA (reflectinglower prescription volumes due toa label change
Avandaryl, which combines Avandiawith a sulfonylurea.
in early 2006 that restricted GSK’s ability to promote the product,
offset by favourable pricingchanges). In 2006, sales of the Avandiaproduct group grew 24% to £1.2 billion
in the USA. In Europe, sales grew 39% to £217 million driven by the
Market share by value
increasing use of Avandamet. Sales in International markets rose 17%
to £234 million. The Avandiaproduct group achieved in 2006 a market
40% 37 share by value in oral anti-diabetics of37% in the USA and19% in
33 33 35
29 Europe, up 2 and 5 percentage points, respectively. In the USA,
30% 27
Avandametprescription volumegrowth was adversely impacted by
product supply issues during the yearwhich havenowbeen resolved.
20% 19
14
In December, GSK presented data from the landmark ADOPT study,
10%
which demonstrated that Avandiais more effective than metformin,
or a sulphonylurea, in long-term blood sugar control in type 2 diabetes.
Europe USA Europe USA These data are in addition to those recently presented from the DREAM
September 2005 September 2006 study, which showed that Avandiacan reduce the risk of progression
to type 2 diabetes. Data from both these studies are expected to be
The positive results of the TOwards a Revolution in COPD Health filed with regulatory agencies during the first half of 2007.
(TORCH) study, the largest of its kind, were filed with regulators early
GSK recorded in turnover a £95 million share of co-promotion income
in 2007 and in February were published in the ‘New England Journal
for Boniva/Bonviva, a new once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the
of Medicine’. The results of the three year study, sponsored by GSK,
treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis, which was developed
showed important benefits of Seretidein the treatment of patients
with Roche, and launched in 2005.
with COPD.GSK Annual Report 2006
32
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2006
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2006
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2006 2005 Growth 2006 Growth 2006 Growth 2006 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 27 4,995 5,054 – (1) 2,461 (3) (5) 1,697 3 2 837 4 3
Seretide/Advair 3,313 3,003 11 10 1,870 13 11 1,133 10 10 310 9 10
Flixotide/Flovent 659 638 5 3 298 16 14 173 (8) (8) 188 2 –
Serevent 291 330 (10) (12) 86 (16) (17) 140 (13) (13) 65 5 (2)
Flixonase/Flonase 311 656 (52) (53) 184 (63) (64) 51 (15) (15) 76 (14) (16)
Central Nervous System 17 3,642 3,219 15 13 2,588 28 26 595 (15) (15) 459 2 (1)
Seroxat/Paxil 620 615 4 1 175 35 32 149 (20) (20) 296 5 –
Paxil IR 448 488 (5) (8) 19 11 6 149 (20) (20) 280 4 (1)
Paxil CR 172 127 37 35 156 38 36 – – – 16 25 33
Wellbutrin 900 739 24 22 882 24 22 2 – – 16 7 14
WellbutrinIR, SR 102 92 12 11 89 14 11 2 – – 11 – 10
Wellbutrin XL 798 647 25 23 793 25 23 – – – 5 25 25
Imigran/Imitrex 711 697 3 2 551 11 9 118 (18) (18) 42 (12) (14)
Lamictal 996 849 19 17 765 37 35 175 (22) (23) 56 2 2
Requip 268 156 74 72 176 >100 >100 81 21 19 11 25 38
Anti-virals 14 2,827 2,598 10 9 1,354 7 5 855 11 11 618 16 14
HIV 1,515 1,554 (1) (3) 700 (7) (9) 621 3 2 194 8 7
Combivir 528 583 (9) (9) 238 (14) (16) 217 (4) (4) 73 – –
Trizivir 268 303 (11) (12) 141 (13) (15) 113 (7) (8) 14 (7) –
Epivir 202 261 (21) (23) 69 (25) (26) 90 (26) (26) 43 (2) (7)
Ziagen 117 136 (13) (14) 48 (11) (13) 41 (24) (24) 28 4 4
Agenerase, Lexiva 131 112 18 17 74 7 6 48 40 37 9 14 29
Epzicom/Kivexa 241 118 >100 >100 125 49 47 97 >100 >100 19 >100 >100
Herpes 965 826 19 17 610 30 28 144 4 4 211 3 –
Valtrex 845 695 24 22 600 30 28 109 12 11 136 10 7
Zovirax 120 131 (6) (8) 10 67 67 35 (15) (15) 75 (7) (11)
Zeffix 162 145 12 12 13 8 8 23 10 10 126 13 13
Relenza 91 5 >100 >100 – – – 62 >100 >100 29 >100 >100
Metabolic 8 1,875 1,495 27 25 1,277 30 28 252 33 33 346 12 12
Avandia 1,399 1,154 23 21 1,068 26 24 125 13 12 206 13 16
Avandamet 204 175 17 17 86 (22) (24) 92 >100 >100 26 41 53
Avandaryl 42 – – – 40 – – – – – 2 – –
Bonviva/Boniva 95 18 >100 >100 83 >100 >100 12 >100 >100 – – –
Vaccines 8 1,692 1,389 23 22 465 40 38 709 20 20 518 13 13
Hepatitis 479 444 9 8 161 21 18 227 2 2 91 8 10
Infanrix, Pediarix 511 431 29 28 172 20 18 281 40 39 58 12 12
Boostrix 60 29 >100 >100 41 >100 >100 15 88 88 4 67 33
Cardiovascular and 7
urogenital 1,636 1,331 24 23 1,072 42 40 395 (4) (5) 169 13 13
Coreg 779 573 38 36 773 38 36 – – – 6 20 20
Levitra 43 40 8 8 41 20 17 1 (75) (75) 1 – –
Avodart 216 129 69 67 131 >100 >100 69 25 25 16 67 78
Arixtra 58 24 >100 >100 32 >100 >100 23 >100 >100 3 >100 >100
Fraxiparine 209 211 (1) (1) – – – 179 – – 30 (6) (6)
Anti-bacterials 8 1,369 1,519 (9) (10) 217 (15) (17) 628 (12) (13) 524 (2) (3)
Augmentin 570 666 (14) (14) 94 (31) (32) 268 (15) (15) 208 – (1)
Zinnat/Ceftin 164 197 (16) (17) 12 20 20 82 (27) (27) 70 (5) (7)
Oncology & emesis 5 1,069 1,016 7 5 836 12 10 153 (7) (7) 80 (11) (12)
Zofran 847 837 3 1 679 8 6 107 (14) (14) 61 (16) (18)
Hycamtin 113 99 15 14 72 11 9 34 26 26 7 17 17
Other 6 973 1,040 (5) (6) 83 19 19 263 (19) (18) 627 (1) (3)
Zantac 232 244 (2) (5) 72 28 24 52 (19) (19) 108 (7) (11)
100 20,078 18,661 9 8 10,353 16 14 5,547 1 – 4,178 6 4
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record on pages174to177.GSK Annual Report 2006
33
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2006
continued
Vaccines Individual governments determine the pricing of medicines in most
Overall vaccine sales increased 23% to £1.7 billion, with good countries within Europe, which can result in wide price variations for
performances from all regions: US sales rose 40% to £465 million; the same product. Parallel trade occurs when third parties exploit this
European sales grew 20% to £709 million and sales in International price differential by purchasing products in markets where low prices
were up 13% to £518 million. Key contributors were: Infanrix/Pediarix, are enforced and selling them to governments and other purchasers
GSK’s combination vaccines for children, with sales up 29% to £511 in those markets where higher prices have been agreed. This parallel
million; and sales of hepatitis vaccines, which grew 9% to £479 trade is permitted under the single market rules in the European
million, benefiting from a strong US performance of Havrix, following Union. GSK does not derive any benefit from the profit on resale at
approval last year for broader paediatric use. the higher price.
Sales of new vaccines also helped drive overall sales growth. Total As a result, management believes that within the European region,
sales of Rotarix, for rotavirus, Boostrix, for prevention of diphtheria, turnover by market, on an invoiced basis as presented above, does
tetanus and whooping cough, and influenza vaccines, Fluarix/FluLaval, not properly represent the consumption of the products within each
reached £274 million, up 91%.This was the first full year sales of market. GSK employees based in each market are instrumental in the
FluLavalfollowing the acquisition of ID Biomedical in late 2005. promotion of the Group’s products within their market, thereby
creating a product sale and final consumption in that market.
Oncology and emesis
Sales of Zofrangrew 3% to £847 million, driven by the US market, The following table gives the adjustments made in order to restate the
up 8% to £679 million. Europe and International sales declined 14% turnover for markets within Europe on a turnover created basis.
and 16% respectively due to generic competition. A generic
Pharmaceutical turnover for Europe region in 2006 on a
competitor to Zofranentered the USmarket inNovember2006.
turnover created basis
Cardiovascular and urogenital
2006 2005
Sales of Coreg,for heart disease,grew 38% to £779 million. Avodart,
Region/ Invoiced Adjustment Created Invoiced Adjustment Created
for benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlarged prostate),had a very strong major markets £m £m £m £m £m £m
year, with sales increasing 69% to £216 million. Europe 5,547 – 5,547 5,537 – 5,537
France 967 (66) 901 975 (47) 928
Anti-bacterials
UK 788 101 889 762 91 853
Anti-bacterial sales declined 9%reflecting generic competition and
Italy 665 (25) 640 662 (13) 649
a weaker ‘flu season.
Germany 595 71 666 554 57 611
Other therapeutic areas Spain 577 (14) 563 586 (15) 571
Sales of Zantacfell 2% to £232 million, with declines in Europe and Other Europe 1,955 (67) 1,888 1,998 (73) 1,925
International partially offset by a 28% growth in the USA.
These adjustments are GSK’s estimates based on the most recent data
Regional analysis from independent external sources, valued inSterling at relevant
exchange rates. Management believes that this turnover created basis
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2006 on
of reporting turnover by market provides a better reflection of the
an invoiced basis
performance of the businesses in each market within Europe.
The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced by
GSK’s local entity to its customers in the local market plus co- The total turnover for the Europe region is unaffected by this
promotion income within each market. restatement.
Region/ % of 2006 2005 Growth* Parallel trade occurs occasionally elsewhere in the world, but it is not
major markets total £m £m CER% £% sufficiently material to affect significantly the turnover data by market
USA 52 10,353 9,106 16 14 presented on an invoiced basis.
Europe 27 5,547 5,537 1 –
France 967 975 – (1)
UK 788 762 3 3
Italy 665 662 1 –
Germany 595 554 8 7
Spain 577 586 (1) (2)
Other Europe 1,955 1,998 (2) (2)
International 21 4,178 4,018 6 4
Asia Pacific 1,377 1,324 4 4
Japan 860 854 8 1
Middle East, Africa 744 746 3 –
Latin America 714 651 10 10
Canada 483 443 4 9
100 20,078 18,661 9 8
*CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
at actual exchange rates.GSK Annual Report 2006
34
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2006
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2006 on a Vaccines grew 40% reflecting the good performance of Pediarixand
turnover created basis Boostrix, Fluarixand the launch of Flulavalin 2006.
Turnover by market within Europe has been adjusted for the effects of
Coregsales increased 38% to £773 million as it continued to benefit
parallel trade to show turnover on the basis of the country where the
from its wide range of indications in heart disease. Zofran sales
product is finally consumed, not where the product was sold by GSK.
increased 8% to £679 million. A generic competitor to Zofranentered
the market inNovember2006.
Region/ % of 2006 2005 Growth*
major markets total £m £m CER% £%
Anti-bacterial sales declined 15% as a result of generic competition.
USA 52 10,353 9,106 16 14
Europe
Europe 27 5,547 5,537 1 –
The discussion of individual market performance in the Europe region
France 901 928 (2) (3)
is on a turnover created basis.
UK 889 853 4 4
Italy 640 649 (1) (1) Sales in Europe contributed 27% of pharmaceutical turnover and
Germany 666 611 10 9 grew 1%, to over £5.5 billion, with strong sales from Seretide,
Spain 563 571 (1) (1) Avandia/Avandametand vaccines offsetting the impact of generic
Other Europe 1,888 1,925 (2) (2) competition to a number of products and continued price cuts
resulting fromgovernment healthcare reforms.
International 21 4,178 4,018 6 4
Asia Pacific 1,377 1,324 4 4 Markets which recorded good growth included Germany, the UK,
Japan 860 854 8 1 Central and South/East Europe whilst growth in France, the
Middle East, Africa 744 746 3 – Netherlands, Poland, Italy and Spainwas adversely impacted by pricing
Latin America 714 651 10 10 and generics.
Canada 483 443 4 9
Major growth drivers were Seretide, GSK’s largest selling product in
100 20,078 18,661 9 8
Europe, with growth of 10%, Avandia/Avandametwhich grew39%,
and the vaccines franchise, up 20%.Sales ofanti-viralsgrew11%
* CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates. £% represents growth
at actual exchange rates. Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record primarily due to government orders ofRelenzaas a measure in the
on pages174to177. event ofa potential ‘flu pandemic.
USA Generic competitionnegatively impacted sales of Seroxatdown 20%,
A strong sales performance in the USA, up 16% to £10.4 billion,was Lamictaldown 22%, Zofrandown 14%and Imigran, down 18%.
the main contributor tototal pharmaceutical turnover growth of 9% Sales of anti-bacterials decreased 12% due to a combination of a
in 2006. weaker ‘flu season than in 2005 and generic competition.
Advairsales grew 13%to£1,870 million.Floventsalesincreased by International
16%. Flonase, indicated for the treatment of perennial rhinitis, The International region reported year on year turnover growth of
declined 63% following the launch of a generic competitor in 6%. Strong growth in Japan, up 8% (despite the biennial price
Q12006. reductions), China/Hong Kong, up7% and Latin America, up 10%,
was partly offset bymodest sales growth of4% in Canada and3%
Sales of Wellbutrinproducts grew 24% to £882 million reflecting the
in Australia. The Canadian sales performance reflected generic
performance of Wellbutrin XL, a new once-daily product, which grew
competition for Imigranand Zofranwhilst the Australian business
25% to £793 million.
was negatively impacted by Government pricing reforms and generic
Total sales of Paxilwere up 35% to £175 millionlargely due tothe competition to Lamictaland Paxil.
rectification of supply issues experienced in 2005 at the Cidra plant
The performance in Japan was driven by the sales of Paxil, up 15%,
in Puerto Rico.
Serevent, up 16% and Anti-virals, up 8% and the full year impact of
Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew 7% with HIV products Zyrtec, an allergy product in-licenced fromUCBin 2005.These were
down 7% and herpes products up 30%. Competition to older partially offset by declines in the older products Zantacand Zovirax.
products,Combivirdown 14% and Epivirdown 25%, was partly Flonasealso declined due to a low pollen season.
offset by the growth of new products Epzicom/Kivexaup 49% and
Across all markets in International, the key products driving growth
Lexivaup 7%. Valtrex, for herpes, grew 30% to £600m driven by
were Seretide, which grew 9% to record sales of £310 million, the
patients switching to suppression therapy.
Avandiarange of products which grew 17% to £234 million, HIV
Sales of the Avandiaproduct group increased by24% reflectingthe products which grew 8% and the vaccines franchise, which recorded
re-supply of product following supply disruption at the Cidra plant in growth of 13% and achieved sales of £518 million.
Puerto Rico in 2005and price increases.GSK Annual Report 2006
35
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2006
continued
Consumer Healthcare sales Selling, general and administration
An analysis of Consumer Healthcare sales is set out in the Selling, general and administration (SG&A) costs as a percentage of
following table: turnover reduced 2.3 percentage points. At constant exchange rates,
the decrease was 2.5 percentage points, reflecting flat expenditure
2006 2005 Growth
£m £m CER% £% compared with prior year on a turnover growth of 9%. SG&A costs
OTC medicines 1,496 1,437 5 4 were flat due to higher advertising, promotion and selling expenditure
Analgesics 380 362 7 5 offset by lower general and administration expenditure. Advertising,
Dermatological 165 161 4 2 promotion and selling increased 3% and accounted for a 2% increase
Gastro-intestinal 252 249 2 1 in total SG&A. General and administration expenditure declined 5%
Respiratory tract 172 154 12 12 and accounted for a 2% decline in total SG&A, of which one
Smoking control 353 336 7 5 percentagepointwas due to lower charges related to legal matters
Natural wellness support 132 133 – (1) and one percentage point was due to lower costs related to
programmes to deliver future cost savings.
Oral care 993 943 6 5
Research and development
Nutritional healthcare 658 619 7 6
R&D expenditure increased 11% partly as a result of higher charges
3,147 2,999 6 5
related to restructuring programmes. Excluding restructuring costs R&D
grew 8%, broadly in-line with turnover. Pharmaceuticals R&D
Consumer Healthcare sales grew 6% to £3.1 billion, with sales in
expenditure, excluding restructuring costs, represented 16.2% (2005
International up 10% and Europe up 7%, performing well. Total sales
– 16.2%) of pharmaceutical turnover.
in the USA were flat, with an improved performance in the fourth
quarter, with sales up 7%. Other operating income
OTCmedicines Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment
disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value
Over-the-counter medicine sales grew 5% to £1.5 billion with Panadol
adjustments to the Quest collar and Theravance options. Other
and smoking control performing well.
operating income was £307 million in 2006 compared with £364
Oral care million in 2005. The decrease is primarily due to lower product and
Oral care sales grew 6% to £993 million. Sensodynegrew strongly, asset disposal profits partially offset by the favourable fair value
up 19% for the year to £257 million. Sales of Aquafreshwere down movement to the Quest collar and Theravance options.
3% to £283 million.
Operating profit
Nutritional healthcare Overall,the operating profit margin increased 1.9 percentage points
Nutritional healthcare products sales grew 7% to £658 million. as operating profitincreased 14% in sterling termsto £7,808 million.
Lucozade, grew 14% to £301 million, and Horlicks, grew 6% to £156 Operating profit increased 17% at constantexchange rates and the
million. Ribenasales were down 1% to £169 million. margin increased 2.4 percentage points, reflectingSG&A growth
below the rate of turnover growth,partially offsetbyhigher costs
Operating profit
related to programmes to deliver future cost savings and lower other
operating income.
The analysis below of operating profit and subsequent discussion
compares the 2006 results with 2005 results. Gains from asset disposalswere £169 million (2005 – £290 million),
2006 2005 Growth costs for legal matters were £333 million (2005 – £430 million), the
£m % £m % CER% £% fair value movements on the Quest collar and Theravance options
Turnover 23,225 100.0 21,660 100.0 9 7 resulted in an income of £29 million (2005 – £19 million) and charges
relating to cost-saving programmes were £205 million (2005– £141
Cost of sales (5,010) (21.6) (4,764) (22.0) 6 5
million). The total operating profit impact of these items was a £340
Selling, general
million charge in 2006, compared with a £262 million charge in 2005.
and administration (7,257) (31.2) (7,250) (33.5) – –
Research and
Profit before taxation
development (3,457) (14.9) (3,136) (14.5) 11 10
Other operating The discussion below compares the 2006 results with the 2005 results.
income 307 1.3 364 1.7
Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
Operating profit 7,808 33.6 6,874 31.7 17 14 undertakings
The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s
Cost of sales
holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
Cost of sales declined as a percentage of turnover by 0.4 percentage
points. At constant exchange rates the decline was 0.6 percentage Disposal of interest in associates
points reflecting favourable price and regional miximpact. There were no disposals of interests in associates in 2006 and 2005.
The Group’s shareholding in Quest as at 31st December 2006 was
18.7%.GSK Annual Report 2006
36
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2006
continued
Net finance costs GSK has open issues in Japan and Canada, which were the subject
2006 2005 of court proceedings in 2006. In Japan the tax authorities are claiming
Financeincome £m £m
approximately Yen 39 billion (£169 million) in respect of transactions
Interestincome 285 276 in 1998. GSK has paid the tax claimed, as required by law, and applied
Fair value adjustmentsand hedges 2 (19) for a refund. A court decision is expected in late March 2007.
287 257
A court decision in the Group’s dispute with the Canadian Revenue
Authority over the pricing of Zantacin the years 1989 – 1993 is Finance costs
expected in the first half of 2007.
Interest costs (314) (427)
Unwinding of discount on liabilities (36) (25) GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing
Fair value adjustmentsand hedges (2) 1 methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues to a
satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional
(352) (451)
advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for
Finance income increased compared with 2005 predominantly due to the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. The ultimate liability
increased income on extended credit on receivables and increased for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is
interest income due to higher USdollar interest rates. Finance costs dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and
reduced due to the refinancing of two expensive bonds in December negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
2005 and January 2006 as well as lower swap costsresulting from
reduced interest rate differentials. Profit for the year
2006 2005 Growth
£m £m CER% £%
Taxation
2006 2005 Profit after taxation for the year 5,498 4,816 17 14
£m £m
Profit attributable to
UK corporation tax 400 172 shareholders 5,389 4,689 18 15
Overseas taxation 2,310 1,847 Earnings per share (pence) 95.5p 82.6p 19 16
Current taxation 2,710 2,019 Earnings per ADS (US$) $3.53 $3.00
Deferred taxation (409) (103) Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,643 5,674
Total 2,301 1,916
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 94.5p 82.0p
The charge for taxation on profit amounting to £2,301 million,
Diluted earnings per ADS (US$) $3.50 $2.98
represents an effective tax rate of 29.5%(2005 – 28.5%). The Group
Weighted average number
balance sheet at 31st December 2006 included a tax payable liability
of shares (millions) 5,700 5,720
of £621 million and a tax recoverable asset of £186 million.
As reported last year, GSK’s largest unresolved tax issues were with Profit for the year was £5,498 million, an increase of 17% (14% in
the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and UK HM Revenue and sterling terms). Profit attributable to minority interests was £109
Customs (HMRC) in respect of transfer prices related to the Glaxo million and profit attributable to shareholders was £5,389 million, an
heritage products. increase of 18% (15% in sterling terms). Earnings per share increased
19%, reflecting higher profits and also the reduction in the weighted
On 11th September 2006, GSK and the IRS agreed to a resolution of
average number of shares resulting from the Group’s share buy-back
their dispute. Under the agreement, GSK has made gross payments
programme. The interest cost of this programme also adversely
to the IRS of approximately $3.3 billion. The final net cash cost to the
impacts the Group’s earnings. At actual rates of exchange, earnings
Group is approximately $3.1 billion, which covers federal, state and
per share increased 16%. The unfavourable currency impact on EPS
local taxes, interest and the benefit of tax relief on the payments
of three percentage points reflects a strengthening ofSterling against
made. The settlement resolved all the transfer pricing issues in dispute
other major currenciesand compares with atwo percentage point
for the period 1989 – 2000, which were due to go to trial in February
unfavourable currency impact on turnover.
2007, and also covers the subsequent years 2001 – 2005. GSK had
previously made provision for the dispute and this settlement did not Dividend
have any significant impact on theGroup’s reported earnings or tax The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 14 pence per share
rate for the year. resulting in a dividend for the year of 48 pence, a four pence increase
over the dividend of 44 pence per share for 2005. The equivalent
GSK continues to be in dispute with HMRC primarily in respect of
interim dividend receivable by ADR holders is 55.1628 cents per ADS
transfer pricing and Controlled Foreign Companies legislation matters
based on an exchange rate of £1/$1.9701. The dividendhadan ex-
for the years 1994 to date and the parties are now preparing for
dividend date of 14th February 2007, a record date of 16th February
litigation. HMRC has not formally quantified its claims in respect of
2007 and will be paid on 12th April 2007. The liability for an interim
these matters but there continues to be a wide difference between
dividend is only recognised when it is paid, which is usually after the
the Group and HMRC positions on these matters.
accounting period to which it relates. The 2006 financial statements
recognise the dividends paid in 2006, namely the third and fourth
interim dividends for 2005 and the first and second interim dividends
for 2006, which total £2,598 million (2005– £2,390 million).GSK Annual Report 2006
37
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2006
continued
Critical accounting policies •The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme
providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients. In 1990,
The consolidatedfifnancial statements are prepared in accordance
the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to reduce state
with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted for use
and federal expenditure on prescription drugs. GSK participates by
in the European Union, following the accounting policies approved
providing rebates to states. Accruals for Medicaid rebates are
by the Board and described in Note2to the financial statements,
calculated based on the specific terms of individual state agreements
‘Accounting policies’. Management is required to make estimates and
using a combination of historical experience, product and
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and
population growth, anticipated price increases and the impact of
expenses reported in the financial statements. Actual amounts and
contracting strategies.
results could differ from those estimates. The following are considered
to be the critical accounting policies adopted. •Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt
payment. These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and adjusted
Turnover
subsequently to reflect actual experience.
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the
customer and reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions. • Where there is historical experience of customer returns, GSK
Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and records an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying historical
product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by product experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced, together
arrangements and buying groups. These arrangements with with market related information such as stock levels at wholesalers,
purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale. Accruals are
A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US
made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts or
pharmaceuticals businessis as follows:
allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available market
information and historical experience. Because the amounts are 2006 2005 2004
estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome, and the £m % £m % £m %
amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other Gross turnover 13,131 100 11,875 100 10,835 100
things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of
Managed care, GPO
accrual is reviewed and adjustedregularly in the light of contractual
rebates and Medicare,
and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected
Part D 912 7 686 6 575 5
market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated using wholesaler
Chargebacks 846 6 786 7 732 7
and other third-party analyses, market research data and internally
USGovernment and
generated information.Future events could cause the assumptions on
State programmes 507 4 775 6 734 7
which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future
Cash discounts 248 2 227 2 208 2
results of the Group.
Customer returns 140 1 155 1 86 1
The Group’s largest business is US pharmaceuticals, and the US market Prior year adjustments (69) – (34) – (51) (1)
has the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and Other items 194 1 174 1 126 1
allowances. The following briefly describes the nature of the Total deductions 2,778 21 2,769 23 2,410 22
arrangements in existence in the Group’s US pharmaceuticals
Net turnover 10,353 79 9,106 77 8,425 78
business.
Rebates given under the US Government Medicaid programme have
•Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group
fallen in 2006 and been replaced with rebates granted under the
purchasing organisations (GPO) and other direct and indirect
Medicare, Part D programme.The overall level of rebates has fallen
customers. These arrangements require the customer to achieve
slightly, partly as a result of products with traditionally higher rebate
certain performance targets relating to value of product purchased,
percentages becoming subject to generic competition and being
formulary status or pre-determined market shares relative to
replaced with sales of newer products with lower rebate percentages.
competitors. Rebates given under Medicare, Part D are included in
this category. The Medicare, Part D programme was introduced The total accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the
during 2006 and replaces the Government Medicaid subsidies for US pharmaceuticals businesswere as follows:
some individuals with subsidised coverage provided through private
At 31st At 31st
prescription plans. The accrual for these rebates is estimated based December December
on the specific terms in each agreement, historical experience and 2006 2005
£m £m
product growth rates.
Managed care,GPO rebates and
•GSK has arrangements with certain key parties, whereby the party Medicare, Part D 435 401
is able to buy products from wholesalers at lower prices. A Chargebacks 50 56
chargeback represents the difference between the invoice price to USGovernment and State programmes 283 417
the wholesaler and the indirect customer’s contractual discounted Cash discounts 24 27
price. Accruals for estimating chargebacks are calculated based on Customer returns 184 146
the terms of each agreement, historical experience and product Other 69 53
growth rates.
Total 1,045 1,100GSK Annual Report 2006
38
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2006
continued
A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at Intangible assets
wholesalers for any abnormal movements. This process uses gross Where intangible assets are acquired by GlaxoSmithKline from third
sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data sources parties the costs of acquisition are capitalised. Licences to compounds
and information received from key wholesalers. The aim of this is to in development are amortised from the point at which they are
maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to year based on available for use, over their estimated useful lives, up to 20 years.
the pattern of consumption. On this basis, US pharmaceutical Estimated useful lives are reviewed annually and impairmenttestsare
inventory levels at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at undertaken if events occur which call into question the carrying values
31st December 2006 were estimated to amount toapproximately of the assets. Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised
onemonth of turnover.This calculation uses third party information, independently where they are separable and have an expected life of
the accuracy of which cannot be totally verified, butis believed to be more than one year. Brands are amortised over their estimated useful
sufficiently reliable for this purpose. lives, not exceeding 20 years, except where the end of the useful
economic life cannot be foreseen. Where brands are not amortised,
Taxation
they are subject to annual impairmenttests. Impairmenttestsare
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and
based on risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using appropriate
deferred tax on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets
interest rates. These future cash flows are based on business forecasts
and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at the rates that have been
and are therefore inherently judgemental. Future events could cause
enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
the values of these intangible assets to be impaired and this would
The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities, have an adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
principally in relation to transfer pricing disputes. GSK uses the best
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking
The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits are
to manage transfer pricing issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, on
charged to the income statement in accordance with IAS 19over the
the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it
period during which benefit is derived from the employee’s services.
has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open
The costs are assessed in accordance with advice received from
assessments. However, there continues to be a wide difference of
independent actuaries on the basis of assumptions selected by
views where open issues exist. The ultimate liability for such matters
management for use under both IFRS and USGAAP. These
may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the
assumptions include future earnings and pension increases, discount
outcome of litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant
rates and expected long term rates of return on assets and are
tax authorities.
disclosed in Note 26 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other
Legal and other disputes post-employment benefits’. The expected long term rates of return
GSK provides for anticipated settlement costs where a reasonable on bonds are determined based on the portfolio mix of index-linked,
estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal government and corporate bonds. An equity risk premium is added
and other expenses arising from claims against the Group. The to this for equities. Discount rates are based on appropriate long-term
company’s Directors, having taken legal advice, have established indices, including the iBoxx over 15 year AAindex for the UK, and
provisions after taking into account the relevant facts and Moody’s Aa index for the USA. Sensitivity analysis is provided in Note
circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting 26, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to an
requirements. Provisions for product liability claims on certain products increase in the net pension deficit of approximately£369million and
have been made on an ‘incurred but not reported’ basis where an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately£4million.
sufficient history of claims made and settlements is available. No The selection of different assumptions could affect the future results
provisions have been made for other unasserted claims or for claims of the Group.
for which no reasonable estimate of the likely outcome can yet be
Product rights and goodwill
made. The ultimate liability for pending and unasserted claims may
In addition to the critical accounting policies outlined above, the
vary from the amounts provided, if any, and is dependent upon the
accounting policy for product rights and goodwill is deemed to be
outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible
important in respect of the balance sheet prepared in accordance
settlement negotiations.
with US generally accepted accounting principles. Under US GAAP the
Impairment of fixed assets merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in 2000 was
The carrying values of fixed assets subject to depreciation and accounted for as an acquisition which gave rise to product rights of
amortisation are reviewed for impairment when there is an indication £24 billion and goodwill of £16 billion being recognised. Goodwill and
that the values of the assets might be impaired. Impairment is those product rights determined to have indefinite lives are not
determined by reference to the higher of net realisable value and amortised but rather reviewed annually for impairment. These
value in use, measured by reference to risk-adjusted future cash flows impairment reviews assess business projections prepared as part of the
discounted using appropriate interest rates. These future cash flows Group’s annual budgeting and planning process to determine
are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently whether or not an impairment in value has occurred. The business
judgemental. Future events could cause the assumptions used in these projections include assumptions about future events. Changes in
impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse effect on future events could cause the assumptions in the business projections
the future results of the Group. to change with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of
the Group as reported under US GAAP.GSK Annual Report 2006
39
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial position and resources
Financial position Property, plant and equipment
The total cost of the Group’s property, plant and equipment at 31st
2006 2005
£m £m December 2006 was £13.3billion, with a net book value of £6.9
Assets billion. Of this, land and buildings represented £2.8billion, plant and
Non-current assets equipment £2.7billion and assets in construction £1.4billion. In 2006,
Property, plant and equipment 6,930 6,652 GSK invested £1,485million in new and renewal property, plant and
Goodwill 758 696 equipment. This is mainly related to a large number of projects for the
Other intangible assets 3,293 3,383 renewal improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide
Investments in associates and sites. Property is mainly held freehold. New investment is financed
joint ventures 295 276 from Group liquid resources. At 31st December 2006, GSK had capital
Other investments 441 362 contractual commitments for future expenditure of some £521million
Deferred tax assets 2,123 2,214 and 2007 operating lease commitments of £374million.
Other non-current assets 721 438
GSK’s business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly
Total non-current assets 14,561 14,021 regulated by governmental authorities. The Group allocates significant
financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of its property,
Current assets plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production
Inventories 2,437 2,177 and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards. A number of
Current tax recoverable 186 416 its processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Trade and other receivables 5,317 5,348
Liquid investments 1,035 1,025 The Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills to
Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 4,209 manage environmental risks from these activities. Environmental
Assets held for sale 12 2 issues, sometimes dating from operations now modified or
discontinued, are reported under ‘Responsibility for environment,
Total current assets 10,992 13,177
health and safety’ (page 24) and in Note 43 to the financial
Total assets 25,553 27,198 statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. GSK believes that its facilities are
adequate for its current needs.
Liabilities
Current liabilities Other intangible assets
Short-term borrowings (718) (1,200) Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from
Trade and other payables (4,871) (5,147) third parties and computer software. Thenet book valueof other
Current tax payable (621) (2,269) intangible assets as at 31st December 2006 was £3,293million (2005
Short-term provisions (1,055) (895) – £3,383 million).Thedecrease in 2006reflects currency movements
and amortisation of existing intangibles,partly offset byadditions of
Total current liabilities (7,265) (9,511)
£444million. The largestelement of the additionsrelates to the
Non-current liabilities acquisition of CNS, Inc. which added to the GSK portfolio Breathe
Long-term borrowings (4,772) (5,271) Right nasal strips and FiberChoicedietary products.
Deferred tax provision (595) (569)
Investments
Pensions and other post-
GSK held investments, including associates and joint ventures, with
employment benefits (2,339) (3,069)
a carrying value at 31st December 2006 of £736million (2005 – £638
Other provisions (528) (741)
million). The market value at 31st December 2006 was £1,461million
Other non-current liabilities (406) (467)
(2005 – £1,487 million). The investments are mainly in equity shares
Total non-current liabilities (8,640) (10,117) where the holding derives directly from the Group’s business. The
Total liabilities (15,905) (19,628) largest of these investments is in the associate, Quest Diagnostics Inc.,
which had a book value at 31st December 2006 of £262million (2005
Net assets 9,648 7,570
– £244 million). The investments include stakes in companies where
Equity the Group has research collaborations, which provide access to
Share capital 1,498 1,491 biotechnology developments of potential interest or interests in
Share premium account 858 549 companies that arise from business divestments.
Retained earnings 6,965 5,579 Trade and other receivables
Other reserves 65 (308)
Trade and other receivables include £80million (2005 – £180 million)
Shareholders’ equity 9,386 7,311 of derivative financial instruments now held at fair value. The
remaining increase from 2005 reflects increased sales and higher VAT
Minority interests 262 259
recoverables partly offset by the impact of weakening overseas
Total equity 9,648 7,570 currencies on the translation of foreign currency receivables.
Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables include £41million (2005 – £171 million)
of derivative financial instruments now held at fair value. The
remaining decrease reflects the impact of weakening overseas
currencieson the translation of foreign currency payables.GSK Annual Report 2006
40
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial position and resources
continued
Provisions Share purchases
The Group carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and In 2006, the ESOP Trusts did not make any market purchases of shares
non-current provisions of £2,178million at 31st December 2006 in GSK plc (2005 – nil). Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future
(2005 – £2,205 million) in respect of estimated future liabilities, of exercises of options and awards under the Group share option and
which £1,105 million related to legal and other disputes. award schemes. A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in
respect of awards where the rules of the scheme require the company
Provision has been made forlegal and other disputes, indemnified
to satisfy exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of
disposal liabilities and the costs of manufacturing restructuring and
new shares. The shares held by the Trusts are matched to options and
merger integration to the extent that at the balance sheet date an actual
awards granted and diminish the dilutive effect of new share issues
or constructive obligation existed and could be reasonably estimated.
on shareholders’ equity and earnings.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits
At 31st December 2006, the ESOP Trusts held 153.5 million GSK
The Group accounts for pension and other post-employment
shares against the future exercise of share options and share awards.
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19. The net deficit before
The carrying value of £1,999 million has been deducted from other
allowing for deferred taxation was £2,338million (2005 – £3,069
reserves. The market value of these shares was £2,062 million.
million).The pension and other post-employment liabilities decreased
following improvements in asset values, further special funding GSK repurchased £1,348 million of shares in 2006, to be held as
contributions to the UK and US pension funds of £346million (2005 Treasury shares. The company completed its second £4 billion share
– £366 million) and a strengthening of long-term interest rates, repurchase programme in September, and in October commenced a
including an increase in the rate used to discount UK pension liabilities new share buy-back programme totalling £6 billion. This programme
from 4.75% to 5.0%. is expected to be completed over a three year period including £2 billion
in 2007. The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the
Net debt
extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather
2006 2005
than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is
£m £m
dependent on market conditions and other factors.At 31st December
Cash, cash equivalents and
2006, GSK also held 235.5 million shares as Treasury shares, at a cost
liquid investments 3,040 5,234
of £3,147 million, which has been deducted from retained earnings.
Borrowings – repayable within one year (718) (1,200)
Borrowings – repayable after one year (4,772) (5,271) Commitments and contingent liabilities
Net debt (2,450) (1,237) Financial commitments are summarised inNote37to thefinancial
statements, ‘Commitments’. Other contingent liabilities and
Net debt increased by £1,213 million primarily due to the gross obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out inNote
payment of $3.3 billion (£1.8 billion) under the transfer pricing dispute 29to thefinancial statements, ‘Contingent liabilities’ andNote30to
settlement with the US Internal Revenue Service (see ‘Taxation’ on thefinancial statements, ‘Net debt’.
page36) and higher share repurchases partly offset by increased
Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benefitsare set
operating profits.
out in Note 26 to the financial statements, ‘Pensions and other post-
Total equity employment benefits’.Amounts for restructuring and integration
A summary of the movements in equity is set out below. plans and legal, environmental and other disputes are set out inNote
27to thefinancial statements, ‘Other provisions’.
2006 2005
£m £m
Contractual obligations and commitments
Total equity at beginning of year 7,570 5,937
The following table sets out the Group’s contractual obligations and
Implementation of accounting for
commitments at 31st December 2006 as they fall due for payment.
financial instruments under IAS39 – (12)
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+
Total equity at beginning of year, as adjusted 7,570 5,925 £m £m £m £m £m
Total recognised income and expense Loans 5,351 676 1,505 11 3,159
for the year 5,395 4,576 Interest on loans 2,875 215 344 307 2,009
Dividends to shareholders (2,598) (2,390) Finance lease obligations 139 42 63 22 12
Ordinary shares issued 316 252 Operating lease
Ordinary shares purchased and held as commitments 374 94 129 74 77
Treasury shares (1,348) (1,000) Intangibleassets 3,219 558 465 645 1,551
Ordinary shares issued by ESOPTrusts 151 68 Property, plant & equipment 521 381 140 – –
Share-based payments 247 265 Investments 196 192 4 – –
Changes in minority interest shareholdings– 2 (40) Business combinations 258 258 – – –
Minority interests (87) (86) Purchase commitments 299 151 128 20 –
Total equity atend of year 9,648 7,570 Pensions 975 325 650 – –
Theravance put option
At 31st December 2006, total equity had increased from £7,570 million agreement 258 258 – – –
at 31st December 2005 to £9,648 million. The increase arises principally Other commitments 65 31 25 4 5
from retained earnings and actuarial gains on defined benefit pension
Total 14,530 3,181 3,453 1,083 6,813
plans in the year,partially offset by further purchases of Treasury shares.GSK Annual Report 2006
41
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial position and resources
continued
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are Cash flow
disclosed after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
Asummary of the consolidated cash flow statement is set out below:
The Group has entered into a number of research collaborations to
2006 2005
develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies. The £m £m
terms of these arrangements can include up-front fees, equity Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,357 5,958
investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,521) (1,660)
research. In addition the Group will often agree to make further Net cash outflow from financing activities (4,792) (2,914)
payments if future ‘milestones’ are achieved. As some of these
Decrease/Increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,956) 1,384
agreements relate to compounds in the early stages of development,
milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the Exchange adjustments (254) 233
compounds move successfully through the development process. Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,972 2,355
Generally the closer the product is to marketing approval the greater Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 1,762 3,972
the possibility of success. The payments shown above within
intangible assets represent the maximum that would be paid if all Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year
milestones are achieved. A number of commitments were made in comprise:
2006 under licensing and other agreements, including with
Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 4,209
ChemoCentryx Inc., EPIX Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Genmab A/S.
Overdrafts (243) (237)
In 2006, GSK formalised an agreementwith the trustees of the UK
1,762 3,972
pension schemes to make additional contributions ofup to£325
million per year,in addition to the normal contributions,overa four- The net cash inflow from operating activities after taxation paid was
yearperiod ending31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the £4,357million, adecreaseof £1,601million over 2005, arisingmainly
thenpension deficits on an IAS19 basis by that point. The tableon from the gross taxation payment of $3.3 billion (£1.8 billion)under
page40shows this commitment,but excludes the normal ongoing the transfer pricing dispute settlement (see page 36),partially offset
annual funding requirement of approximately £200 million.GSK has byhigher operating profits.
also committed to eliminate any future deficits that may arise over a
The net cash outflow from investing activities was £1,521million, a
rolling five-year period. No other commitments have been made past
decreaseof £139million which reflected increased capital expenditure
31st December 2009.
and the purchase ofbusinesses including CNSin 2006 for£273million
Contingent liabilities (purchases of businesses in 2005wereover £1 billion reflecting the
The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising purchase of Corixa and ID Biomedical).
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of creditand other
Free cash flow was £2,623million,adecreaseof44% over 2005,
items arising in the normal course of business and when they are
principally reflecting the US tax settlement and higher levels of capital
expected to expire.
expenditure. Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the
Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs+ business after meeting its obligations for interest, tax and dividends
£m £m £m £m £m paid to minority interests, and after capital expenditure on non-current
Guarantees 221 74 28 5 114 tangible and intangible assets.
Other contingent liabilities 37 12 10 4 11
Free cash flow is used by GSK’s management for planning and
Total 258 86 38 9 125 reporting purposes and in discussions with and presentations to
investment analystsand rating agencies. GSK’s free cash flow measure
In the normal course of business GSK has provided various
is not defined inIFRS. This measure may not be directly comparable
indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in which
with similarly described measures used by other companies. A
legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen. A provision is made
reconciliation of net cash inflow from operating activities, which is
where a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of
the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash flow is shown below.
the dispute and this is included in Note27to thefinancial statements,
‘Other provisions’. Reconciliation of free cash flow
It is the Group’s policy to provide for the settlement costs of asserted 2006 2005
£m £m
claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable estimate may
Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,357 5,958
be made. Prior to this point no liability is recorded. Legal and
Purchase of non-currenttangible assets (1,366) (903)
environmental costs are discussed in ‘Risk factors’ on pages44to47.
Purchase of non-current intangible assets (224) (278)
GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing Disposal of non-current tangible fixed assets 43 54
methodology and, on the basis of external professional advice, Interest paid (414) (381)
continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the Interest received 299 290
liabilities likely to arise from open taxation assessments. The ultimate Dividends received from joint ventures and
liability for such matters may vary significantly from amounts provided associated undertaking 15 10
and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and Dividends paid to minority interests (87) (86)
negotiations with the relevant tax authorities. This is discussed further
Free cash flow 2,623 4,664
in Note12to thefinancial statements, ‘Taxation’.GSK Annual Report 2006
42
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial position and resources
continued
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Payment performance
At 31st December 2006, the average number of days’ purchases
2006 2005
£m £m represented by trade and fixed asset creditors of the parent company
Net debt at beginning of year (1,237) (1,984) was nil (2005 – nil) and in respect of the company and its UK
(Decrease)/increasein cashand subsidiaries in aggregate was24days (2005 – 22 days).
bank overdrafts (1,956) 1,384
Cashoutflow/(inflow)fromliquidinvestments 55 (550) Treasury policies
Net increase in long-term loans - (912)
GlaxoSmithKline plc reports inSterling and pays dividends out of
Net repayment of short-term loans 739 857
sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury in GSK is to manage
Exchange and other movements (51) (32)
and monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirements
Net debt at end of year (2,450) (1,237) and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives. Treasury
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the
Investment appraisal
Board and monitored by a treasury management group.
GSK has a formal process for assessing potential investment proposals
in order to ensure decisions are aligned with the Group’s overall GSK maintains treasury control systems and procedures to monitor
strategy. This process includes an analysis of the impactof the project foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and other
on earnings, its return on invested capital and anassessment of the financial risks.
return based on discounted cash flows. The discount rate used to Liquidity
perform financial analysis is decided internally, to allow determination
GSK operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies
of the extent to which investments cover the Group’s cost of capital.
established in the markets in which the Group trades. Due to the
For specific investments the discount rate may be adjusted to take into
nature of GSK’s business, with patent protection on many of the
account country or other risk weightings.
products in its portfolio, the Group’s products compete largely on
Capital expenditure and financial investment product efficacy rather than on price. Selling margins are sufficient to
Cash payments for tangible and intangible fixed assets amounted to exceednormal operating costs and the Group’s operating subsidiaries
£1,590million (2005 – £1,181 million). Disposals realised £218million are substantially cash generative.
(2005 – £275 million). Cash payments to acquire equity investments
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the research and
of £57million (2005 – £23 million) were made in the year and sales
development of new products as well as routine outflows of capital
of equity investments realised £32million (2005 – £35 million).
expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing debt. The
Future cash flow Group may, from time to time, have additional demands for finance,
The Group expects that future operating cash flow will be sufficient such as for share purchases and acquisitions.
to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels
GSK operates with a high level of interest cover and at low levels of
of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing
net debt relative to its market capitalisation. In addition to the strong
agreements and to meet other routine outflows including tax and
positive cash flow from normal trading activities, additional liquidity
dividends, subject to the risk factors discussed on pages44to47.
is readily available via its commercial paper programme and short-
GSK may from time to time have additional demands for finance,
term investments. The Group also has a European Medium Term Note
such as for acquisitions. It has access to other sources of liquidity from
programme of £10billion, of which £3.5 billion was in issue at 31st
banks and other financial institutions, in addition to the cash flow
December 2006. In 2004, the Group established a US Shelf
from operations, forsuch needs.
Registration of $5 billion; at 31st December 2006$2.4 billion (£1.2
billion) was in issue.
Payment policies
Treasury operations
Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing their
The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net
working capital. The terms of sales collections and supplier payments
cost/income of financial operations to the benefit of Group earnings.
reflect local commercial practice.
Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre. GSK uses a
In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have policies variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to finance its
to ensure that suppliers are paid on time. In particular, the UK operations and to manage market risks from those operations.
companies seek:
Derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts,
•to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms interest rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and
of the transaction liquid assets into the currencies required for Group purposes and to
•to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign exchange
ofpayment rates and interest rates.
•to abide by the terms of payment.
The policy includes arrangements for accelerated payment of
small suppliers.GSK Annual Report 2006
43
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial position and resources
continued
GSK balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets having regard Based on the composition of net debt at 31st December 2006, a 10%
tothe cash flow from operating activities,thecurrencies in which it appreciation inSterling against major currencies would result in a
is earned,the tax cost of intra-Group distributions,the currencies in reduction in the Group’s net debt of approximately £210million.
which business assets are denominated,and the post-tax cost of A10% weakening inSterling against major currencies would result
borrowings comparedwiththepost-tax return on liquid assets. in an increase in the Group’s net debt of approximately £256million.
Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements of Interest rate risk management
Group companies are generally invested and managed centrally by GSK’s policy on interest rate risk management requires that the
Corporate Treasury. Requirements of Group companies for operating amount of net borrowings at fixed rates increases with the ratio of
finance are met whenever possible from central resources. forecast net interest payable to trading profit.
External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate Treasury, The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to
comprise a portfolio of long and medium-term instruments and short- redenominate external borrowings into the interest rate coupon
term finance. required for Group purposes. The duration of these swaps matches
the duration of theprincipal debtinstruments. Interest rate derivative
GSK does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading
instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash flow hedges of the
purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies specifically prohibit such
relevant assets or liabilities.
activity. All transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to
manage the risks arising from underlying business activities, not The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses
for speculation. or borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses
forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the
Funding, maturity and counterparty risk
originating currency.
The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets in government
bonds, short-term corporate debt instruments with a minimum Sensitivity analysis considers the sensitivity of the Group’s net debt to
short-term credit rating of A-1/P-1, money market funds with a credit hypothetical changes in market rates and assumes that all other
rating of AAA/Aaa and other structured investments (credit ratings variables remain constant. Based on the composition of net debt and
shown are from Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors’ financing arrangements at 31st December 2006, and taking into
Services, respectively). consideration all fixed rate borrowings in place, a one percentage
point (100 basis points)decrease in average interest rates would result
The Group manages its net borrowing requirements through a
in an increase in the Group’s annual net interest charge of
portfolio of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together
approximately £5million.
with short-term finance under the US$10 billion commercial
paper programme. Equity risk management
Equity investments classified as current assets are available-for-sale
The Group’s long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2007
and the Group manages disposals to meet overall business
and 2034. These include a private financing which, although maturing
requirements as they arise. The Group regularly monitors the value of
in 2032, may be redeemed by GSK at any time and, in particular, in
its equity investments and only enters into hedges selectively with the
the event of any accelerating event that would increase the cost of
approval of the Board.
funding for the Group. GSK’s long-term debt rating is AA from
Standard and Poor’s and Aa2 from Moody’s Investors’ Services. The Financial assets and liabilities
agencies’ short-term ratings for paper issued under the Group’s An analysis of net debt is given in Note 30 to the financial statements,
commercial paper programme are A-1+ and P-1 respectively. ‘Net debt’. An analysis of financial assets and liabilities at carrying
value and fair value and a reconciliation to net debt are given in Note
Foreign exchange risk management
39to the financial statements, ‘Financial instruments and related
In GSK foreign currency transaction exposure arising on normal trade
disclosures’, together with a discussion of derivative financial
flows, in respect of both external and intra-Group trade, is not
instruments and quantitative disclosures about market risk in
hedged. The policy is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating
accordance with the requirements of IAS32 and IAS39.
subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income with
local currency costs. For this purpose, intra-Group trading transactions The Group continues to benefit from strong positive cash flow. Group
are matched centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed net debt would have decreased significantly in the year to 31st
to reduce risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are hedged December 2006, but for the Group’s purchase of its own shares in the
selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury. market of £1.3billion, the gross US tax settlement of US$3.3billion
(£1.8billion)and acquisitions of approximately £0.3billion.
The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of its
principalassets and cash flows. These are primarily denominated in The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2006 are
USdollars, Euros and Sterling.Certain of these and other borrowings representative of the treasury policies and strategies of GSK, applied
are swapped into other currencies as required for Group purposes. consistently during the year. There were no significant changes in
such policies throughout the year.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that
match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a hedge
against the relevant net assets.GSK Annual Report 2006
44
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Outlook and risk factors
Outlook Risk factors
Sales growth of existing products and launch of new products are There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Group’s business. The
key drivers of GSK’s business performance. Thesalesgrowth seen factors listed below are among those that the Group thinks could
from key products such as Seretide/Advair, the Avandiagroupof cause the Group’s actual results to differ materially from expected and
products, Vaccines, Lamictal, Valtrex, Coregand thehigh potential historical results.
products,Requip, Avodartand Boniva is expected to continue in 2007.
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful
Typically, sales of existing products decline dramatically when generic new products
competition is introduced either on patent expiry or earlier if there is Continued development of commercially viable new products is critical
a successful challenge to the Group’s patent. In Q4 2006,generic to the Group’s ability to replace sales of older products that decline
competitors to Wellbutrin XL300mg tablet (approximately 60% of upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
Wellbutrinsales) and Zofranentered the USmarket. GSKis engaged Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
in legal proceedings regarding the validity and infringement of the
A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the process, and
Group’s patents relating to many of its products. These are discussed
one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive
in ‘Risk factors’ below and in Note43to the financial statements,
regulatory approval.
‘Legal proceedings’.
New product candidates may appear promising in development but,
Five major new pharmaceutical product launches are expected in
after significant investment, fail to reach the market or have only
2007. These include Tykerb,for breast cancer, Cervarix, for cervical
limited commercial success. This, for example, could be as a result of
cancer(in Europe),Allermist, for allergic rhinitis, Coreg CR, for heart
efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory
failure and Trexima, for migraine.
approvals, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, erosion of
GSK also expects to launch several other important products during patent term as a result of a lengthy development period, infringement
the year including: Arixtra, to treat acute coronary syndromes (ACS); of patents or other intellectual property rights of others or inability to
Altabax/Altargo, for skin infections, and Entereg, for the management differentiate the product adequately from those with which
of post-operative ileus. it competes.
GSK’s consumer brand portfolio will be strengthened further in 2007, Risk of unplanned loss of patents
with the launch of 10 products, including alli, a new treatment for Patent infringement litigation
weight-loss in the USA.Two more brands,Breathe Right,nasal strips The Group’s patents, in common with all patents, can be challenged
and FiberChoice, dietary fibre supplements, were added to the at any time. Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges
portfolio,following the acquisition of CNS, Inc. which was completed to the validity of a patent or assertions that their generic product does
in December 2006. not infringe the Group’s patents. If the Group is not successful in
defending an attack on its patentsand maintaining exclusive rights
Several new products are expected to be filed for approval with the
to market one or more of its major products, particularly in the USA
regulatory authorities in 2007, includingvaccine opportunities: US
where the Group has its highest turnover and margins, the Group’s
filing ofCervarix,for cervical cancerandRotarix,for rotavirus and the
turnover and margins would be adversely affected. See Note 43to
European filing of Synflorix, a vaccine for pneumococcal disease.
the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion of
GSKcontinues to progress development of vaccines for use before,
patent-related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
and in the event of, a ’flu pandemic.In January 2007, GSK submitted
its H5N1 vaccine to European regulators for approval for Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions
pre-pandemic use. of many of the Group’s most important products, prior to the
expiration of the Group’s patents, and have exhibited a readiness to
GSK now has 31 major product opportunities in phase III development
do so for other products in the future. The US launch of generic
or registration, comprising 13 NCEs, 6 new vaccines and 12 product
productscompetingwith Paxil IRand Wellbutrinhad a significant
line extensions.
impact on the Group’s overall turnover and earnings.
GSK’s published earnings guidance for 2007 is that earnings per share
Weakness of intellectual property protection in certain
growth is expected to be 8% to 10% inCERterms.
countries
The Group has net debt of £2.5 billion, which is low relative to its In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent
market capitalisation, and this positions it to take advantage of any protection may be significantly weaker than in the USA or the
opportunities that might arise to build the business. European Union. In addition, in an effort to control public health
crises, some developing countries, such as South Africa and Brazil,
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business that may
have considered plans for substantial reductions in the scope of patent
affect future performance including R&D projects, anticipated sales
protection for pharmaceutical products. In particular, these countries
growth and expected earnings growth. These are discussed in ‘Risk
could facilitate competition within their markets from generic
factors ‘ below.
manufacturers who would otherwise be unable to introduce
competing products for a number of years.Any loss of patent protection, including abrogation of patent rights Anti-trust litigation
or compulsory licensing, is likely to affect adversely the Group’s In the USA it has become increasingly common that following
operating results in those national markets but is not expected to be publicity around government investigations or an adverse outcome
material to the Group overall. Absence of adequate patent protection in prosecution of patent infringement actions, the defendants and
could limit the opportunity to look to such markets for future direct and indirect purchasers and other payers initiate anti-trust
sales growth. actions as well. Claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other
payers are typically filed as class actions and the relief sought may
Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and
include treble damages and restitution claims. Damages in adverse
government investigations
anti-trust verdicts are subject to automatic trebling in the USA.
See Note43to the financial statements, ’Legal proceedings’, for a
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought following settlement of
discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations in which
patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive
the Group is currently involved. Unfavourable resolution of these and
and in violation of anti-trust laws.
similar future proceedings or investigations may have a material
adverse effect on the Group’s financial results. The Group has made Sales, marketing and regulation
material provisions in 2004, 2005 and 2006 related to legal The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory
proceedings and investigations which reduced its earnings. The Group environments that often vary among jurisdictions. The failure to
may also make additional significant provisions related to legal comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these
proceedings and investigations in the future, which would reduce its jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings. As
earnings. In many cases the practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim those rules and regulations change or as governmental interpretation
damages – compensatory, punitive and statutory – in amounts that of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct may be called
bear no relationship to the underlying harm. Accordingly it is into question. In the USA, for example, the Group is responding to
potentially misleading to quantify the potential exposure to claims, federal and state governmental investigations into pricing, marketing
proceedings and investigations of the type described in Note43. and reimbursement of its prescription drug products. These
investigations could result in related restitution or civil false claims act
Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product
litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, as well as
liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and narrowed the
related proceedings initiated against the Group by or on behalf of
coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical companies
consumers and private payers. Such proceedings may result in
generally, including the Group.
trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each violation of
In order to contain insurance costs in recent years the Group has law. Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against Group
continued to adjust its coverage profile, accepting a greater degree companies or individuals.
of un-insured exposure. In addition, where claims are made under
Risks of competition, price controls and limitations on sales
insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage on
Third party competition
various grounds. If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld on these
The Group operates in highly competitive businesses. In the
claims, this could result in material additional charges to the
pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from proprietary
Group’s earnings.
products of large international manufacturers and producers of
Product liability litigation generic pharmaceuticals. Significant product innovations, technical
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of products could adversely affect the Group’s operating results. Continued
for use by humans following approval by regulatory bodies. consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines are the Group’s competitive position, while continued consolidation
introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may among the Group’s customers may increase pricing pressures. The
become evident. The Group is currently a defendant in a number of Group had13products with over £500 million in annual global sales
product liability lawsuits, including class actions, that involve in 2006.
substantial claims for damages related to the Group’s pharmaceutical
Among these products is Augmentin IR, with respect to which the
products. Litigation, particularly in the USA, is inherently
Group has generic competition, and Avandia,Valtrex, and Wellbutrin
unpredictable and excessive verdicts that are not justified by the
XL, with respect to which the Group’s intellectual property rights in
evidence can occur. Class actions that sweep together all persons
the USA are currently the subject of litigation, and two others – Zofran
who were prescribed the Group’s products can inflate the potential
and the 300 mg tablet version of Wellbutrin XL– with respect to
liability by the force of numbers. Claims for pain and suffering and
which the Group has had generic competition since the fourth quarter
punitive damages are frequently asserted in product liability actions
of 2006.
and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure.
GSK Annual Report 2006
45
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Outlook and risk factors
continuedGSK Annual Report 2006
46
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Outlook and risk factors
continued
If these or any of the Group’s other major products were to become Regulatory controls
subject to a problem such as unplanned loss of patent protection, The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls on
unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of its
doctor or patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly in the
or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not only
adverse impact on the Group’s revenues and operating results could the cost of product development but also the time required to reach
be significant. In particular, the Group faces intense competition from the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so. Stricter
manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all of its major regulatory controls also heighten the risk of withdrawal by regulators
markets. Generic products often enter the market upon expiration of on the basis of post-approval concerns over product safety, which
patents or data exclusivity periods for the Group’s products. would reduce revenues and can result in product recalls and
Introduction of generic products typically leads to a dramatic loss of product liability lawsuits.
sales and reduces the Group’s revenues and margins for its proprietary
In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily cease marketing
products. The expiration dates for patents for the Group’s major
a product (for example, the withdrawal of Lotronexin 2000 shortly
products are set out on page23and legal proceedings involving
after its initial launch in the USA) or face declining sales based on
patent challenges are set out in Note43to the financial statements,
concerns about efficacy or safety, whether or not scientifically justified,
‘Legal proceedings’.
even in the absence of regulatory action. The development of the
Governmental and payer controls post-approvaladverse event profile for a product or the product class
Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures and may have a major impact on the marketing and sale of the product.
other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany, France
Risk of interruption of product supply
and Italy. Some governments intervene directly in setting prices. In
The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent
addition, in some markets major purchasers of pharmaceutical
materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice
products (whether governmental agencies or private health care
regulations. The Group’s manufacturing sites are subject to review
providers) have the economic power to exert substantial pressure on
and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Compliance
prices or the terms of access to formularies.
failure by suppliers of key materials or the Group’s own manufacturing
The Group cannot predict whether existing controls will increase or facilities could lead to product recalls and seizures, interruption of
new controls will be introduced that will reduce the Group’s margins production and delays in the approvals of new products pending
or affect adversely its ability to introduce new products profitably. resolution of manufacturing issues. Non-compliance can also result in
fines and disgorgement of profits. Any interruption of supply or fines
For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins and
or disgorgement remedy could materially and adversely affect the
most sales for any country, pricing pressures could significantly
Group’s financial results. The Group’s Cidra, Puerto Rico facility has
increase following implementation of the pharmaceutical benefit
worked at resolution of FDA observations of deficiencies in
under Medicare or in the event that other state programmes to control
manufacturing practices and is subject to a consent decree entered
the cost of prescription drugs are adopted. As experience develops
into with the FDA during 2005, as referred to in Note43to the
under the Medicare programme outpatient pharmaceutical coverage
financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’. As a consequence of those
for its beneficiaries that began in 2006, the US government, or the
discussions, supplies of certain products manufactured at Cidra were
private insurers through which coverage is offered, through their
curtailed or constricted which had an adverse impact on sales in 2005
enormous purchasing power under the programme could demand
and 2006.
discounts that may implicitly create price controls on prescription
drugs. Changes to the enabling legislation could afford the US Althoughthe Group undertakes business continuity planning, single
government a direct role in negotiating prices under the Medicare sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials and finished
programme. Additionally a number of states have proposed or products creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory
implemented various schemes to control prices for their own senior non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites.
citizens’ programmes, including importation from other countries and
Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers
bulk purchases of drugs. The growth in the number of patients
In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group
covered through large managed care institutions in the USA, which
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition
is likely to increase with implementation of the Medicare benefit, also
to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the
increases pricing pressures on the Group’s products. These trends may
three largestwholesalesamounted to approximately 80% of the
adversely affect the Group’s revenues and margins from sales in
Group’s US pharmaceutical sales. At 31st December 2006 the Group
the USA.
had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers totalling
£1,044million (31st December 2005 – £1,051 million). The Group is
exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these
wholesalers such that, if one or more of them is affected by financial
difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
financial results.GSK Annual Report 2006
47
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Outlook and risk factors
continued
Reliance on information technology Accounting standards
The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations
systems, including Internet-based systems, for internal communication promulgated from time to time byinternational or US accounting
as well as communication with customers and suppliers. Any standard setting boards could result in changes to the recognition of
significant disruption of these systems, whether due to computer income and expense that may adverselyimpactthe Group’s reported
viruses or other outside incursions, could materially and adversely financial results.International and US accountingstandardschanges
affect the Group’s operations. in the market valuation of certain financial instruments (such as the
equity collar linked to the Group’s investment in Quest Diagnostics,
Taxation
the put and call options linked to the Group’s strategic alliance with
The effective tax rate on the Group’s earnings benefits from the fact
Theravance and impairments of equity investments) are reflected in
that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable rates in some
the Group’s reported results before those gains or losses are actually
jurisdictions outside the UK. Changes in tax laws or in their application
realised and could have a significant impact on theincomestatement
with respect to matterssuch as transfer pricing and the risk of double
in any given period. Also, under international accounting standards,
taxationthat relate to the portion of the Group’s earnings taxed at
accounting for deferred taxation on inter-company inventory may
more favourable rates,or a restriction in tax relief allowed on the
give rise to volatility depending upon the ownership of the inventory
interest on intra-Group debt, could increase the Group’s effective tax
at the balance sheet date.
rate and adversely affect its financial results. In 2006 the Group
resolved the claims by the US Internal Revenue Service related to Glaxo Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed
heritage products. The Group has open issues with the revenue companies like GSK for compliance with accounting and regulatory
authorities in the UK, Japan and Canada. These matters are discussed requirements.
in Note 12 to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’.
The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory
Disruption from pandemic influenza requirements concerning its financial statements and disclosures.
In the event of pandemic influenza, the Group could be subject to However, other companies have experienced investigations into
disruption from a range of factors. National governments may be potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure
more willing to abrogate intellectual property rights for medicines requirements that have resulted in restatements of previously reported
that might otherwise be in short supply. In a country afflicted by results and sometimes significant penalties.
pandemic ‘flu, there would be a risk that employees and their families
Human resources
will be affected with the consequence that sales and distribution and
The Group has approximately 100,000 employees around the world
manufacturing activities could be shut down and supply continuity –
and is subject to laws and regulations concerning its employees –
for active ingredients and finished goods – affected.
ranging from discrimination and harassment to personal privacy to
Environmental liabilities labour relations – that vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and Failure to continue to recruit and retain the right people and maintain
potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites. a culture of compliance could have a significant adverseeffect on
The Group has also been identified as a potentially responsible party the Group.
under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation
and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to
the Group’s use or ownership of such sites. Failure to manage properly
the environmental risks could result in additional remedial costs that
could materially and adversely affect the Group’s operations. See Note
43to the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’, for a discussion
of environmental-related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
Global political and economic conditions
The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside the
UK. The Group’s management of foreign exchange rates is discussed
inBusiness Review, ‘Foreign exchange risk management’(see page
43). Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling and other
currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the JapaneseYen,
could materially affect the Group’s financial results.
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other economic
factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of political unrest,
legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in which
the Group operates. These factors could materially affect the Group’s
future results of operations.GSK Annual Report 2006
48
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2005
In accordance with USSEC disclosure requirements, the following Pharmaceutical turnover
discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2005with
Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2005 was £18,661 million compared
the results for the year to 31st December 2004. The information has
with £17,100 million in 2004, an increase of 8% CER. In sterling terms
been prepared under IFRS.
turnover increased 9%, principally due to the strength of the Euro and
All growth rates are at constant exchange rates (CER) unless otherwise other International currencies.
stated. The sterling growth rates may be found in the tables of
pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area on page 50. Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area
Exchange GSK’s ability to continue to deliver pharmaceutical turnover growth
is primarily due to an exceptionally broad product portfolio of
The currencies that most influence the Group’s results are the US
fast-growing, high-value products. Sales of GSK’s largest product,
dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
Seretide/Advair, were up 22% to £3.0 billion and continued to gain
In 2005, the US dollar strengthened by over 10% against the pound, market share across all regions. Market share by value in the
rising to $1.72 at the year-end following two years of weakness. anti-asthma and COPD therapy class was 27% in Europe and 33%
Both the Euro and Japanese Yen year-end rates weakened against in the USA, an increase of 2 percentage points in both cases compared
the pound by just over 3%. with 2004. Sales of diabetes treatments were also strong, with
Avandia/Avandametup 18% to £1.3 billion. GSK launched Avandia
World market – pharmaceuticals for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in 1999 and a combination
product, Avandamet, for blood sugar control in 2002. The product
Global pharmaceutical sales increased by6% in 2005 to £302 billion.
group was expanded further in February 2006 with the launch in the
World market by Value % of Growth USA of a fixed-dose combination treatment, Avandaryl, which
geographic region £bn total £%
combines Avandiawith a sulfonylurea.In 2005, Avandia/Avandamet
USA 132.0 44 3
achieved a market share by value in oral anti-diabetics of 14%
Europe 86.8 29 8
in Europe and 35% in the USA, up 3 and 6 percentage
Germany 16.4 5 8
points, respectively.
France 15.9 5 9
UK 10.5 3 – Other fast growing products were Lamictal for epilepsy/bipolar
Italy 9.9 3 3 disorder, up 24% (£0.8 billion), Valtrexfor herpes, up 21% (£0.7
Japan 32.5 11 4 billion), Coregfor heart disease, up 32% (£0.6 billion) and vaccines,
Asia Pacific 20.5 7 13 up 15% (£1.4 billion).
Latin America 13.7 4 15
In addition, in 2005 therewasa rapid uptake of a number of high
Middle East, Africa 9.8 3 17
potential products such as Requip, for restless legs syndrome (sales up
Canada 7.0 2 14
34% to £156 million), Avodartfor benign prostatic hyperplasia (sales
Total 302.3 100 6 doubled to £129 million) and Boniva/Bonvivafor the treatment of
osteoporosis, which was launched in 2005 and captured a 10% share
Growth in the US market has slowed to 3%,but it still represents
of new prescriptions for oral bisphosphonates in the US market.
44% of the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with
30% a decade ago. Respiratory
GSK continues to be the global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals
At 30th September 2005, GSK held second position in the world with sales of its three key products, Seretide/Advair, Flixotide/Flovent
pharmaceutical market with a market share of 6.3%, behind Pfizer and Serevent,amounting to £4.0 billion, up 15%. Seretide/Advair
with a market share of 8.9%. GSK had eight of the world’s top 60
sales rose 26% to £1.7 billion in the USA. Sales were also strong in
pharmaceutical products. These were Avandia, Flixonase,
both European and International markets, which were up 16% to £1
Imigran/Imitrex, Lamictal, Seretide/Advair, Seroxat/Paxil, Wellbutrin
billion and £0.3 billion, respectively.
and Zofran.
Central nervous system (CNS)
World market – Value % of Growth CNS sales declined 8% to £3.2 billion. Sales declined in the USA and
top five therapeutic classes £bn total CER% £% Europe, with a small gain in International. Total Paxilsales fell 42% to
£615 million, due to generic competition and the interruption in
Cardiovascular 50.7 17 7 6
supply to Paxil CRduring the year. See ‘Product supply’ on page49.
Central nervous system 49.7 16 6 4
Partially mitigating this decline was the strong performance of Paxil
Alimentary tract and metabolic 36.6 12 6 5
in Japan, up 17% to £197 million.
Anti-infectives
(bacterial, viral and fungal)
excluding vaccines 32.2 11 7 5
Respiratory 20.7 7 8 7
(Note: data based on 12 months to 30thSeptember 2005.)GSK Annual Report 2006
49
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2005
continued
Total Wellbutrinturnover fell 2% to £739 million. Wellbutrin IRand Cardiovascular and urogenital
SRsales fell 68% to £92 million due to generic competition, but this Sales ofCoregfor heart disease grew 32% to £573 million.
was largely offset by the very strong performance of Wellbutrin XL(up
Avodartfor benign prostatic hyperplasia (enlarged prostate) had a
38% to £647 million).
very strong year, with sales doubling to £129 million. By January 2006
The strong growth of GSK’s epilepsy and bi-polar disorder treatment the product accounted for 42% of new prescriptions in the US
Lamictalcontinued, with sales up 24% to £849 million, driven by the 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitor market.
indication for the maintenance treatment of bi-polar disorder.
Other therapeutic areas
Requipsales rose 34% to £156 million. By Q1 2006, weekly new Sales of Zantacfell 12% to £244 million, with declines in all regions.
prescriptions for the product have quadrupled in the USA since it was
Product supply
launched for restless legs syndrome (RLS) in Q2 2005.
Following FDA inspections in October 2003 and November 2004,
Anti-virals which identified possible deficiencies in manufacturing practices at the
Global HIV product sales grew 5% to £1.6 billion, with sales from Group’s facility at Cidra in Puerto Rico, the FDA halted distribution of
new products Epzicom/Kivexa and Lexiva (together more than supplies of Paxil CR and Avandamet in March 2005. This site is
doubling to £226 million) offsetting the performance of Trizivir(down engaged in tableting and packaging for a range of GSK products,
6% to £303 million) and Epivir (down 12% to £261 million). Sales of primarily for the US market including Paxil, Paxil CR, Coreg,Avandia
the herpes treatment Valtrex grew 21% to £695 million. Performance and Avandamet. In April 2005, the Group reached agreement with
is being driven by the USA (up 26% to £470 million) where the the FDA on a Consent Decree, which provides for an independent
product is the clear market leader in treatments for genital herpes. expert to review manufacturing processes at the site for compliance
with FDA Good Manufacturing Practice requirements. The Decree
Anti-bacterials
also allows for potential future penalties, up to a maximum of $10
Anti-bacterial sales declined 3% worldwide. In the USA the decline
million a year, if GSK fails to meet its terms.
was 27% reflecting increased generic competition.
In June 2005, the Group began re-supplying the US and other markets
Metabolic
with both Paxil CRand Avandamet. The sales of these products were
The diabetes treatments Avandia/Avandametcontinued to perform
significantly impacted in 2005 by this interruption in supply. The
very strongly, with overall sales of £1.3 billion, up 18%. In the USA,
impact on Avandametwas mitigated by the switching of patients to
sales grew 14% to £977 million. Avandia/Avandamet are also
Avandia. In 2005, the Group also established a provision for the
establishing strong positions in Europe, with sales rising 52% to £157
external costs required to rectify the manufacturing issues at the plant.
million, helped by the launch of Avandamet. Sales in International
For further details see Risk factors on pages44to47and Note 43to
markets rose 13% to £195 million.
the financial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
Boniva/Bonviva, a new once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the
Consumer Healthcare sales
treatment of osteoporosis, which was developed with Roche, had a
2005 2004 Growth
strong launch in the USA and in February 2006 had a 10% share of £m £m CER% £%
new prescriptions for oral bisphosphonates. Boniva injection, the first-
OTC medicines 1,437 1,400 1 3
ever quarterly treatment for osteoporosis, was approved in the USA
Analgesics 362 333 6 9
in January 2006 and received a positive opinion from the CHMP in
Dermatological 161 180 (12) (11)
Europe on 27th January 2006.
Gastro-intestinal 249 241 1 3
Vaccines Respiratory tract 154 145 5 6
The vaccines business performed well, with total sales rising 15% to Smoking control 336 327 2 3
£1.4 billion, led by Infanrix. Vaccine sales were particularly strong in Natural wellness support 133 136 (4) (2)
the USA, where turnover rose 26% to £338 million, helped by the
Oral care 943 913 2 3
launch of two new products, Fluarix and Boostrix.
Nutritional healthcare 619 573 7 8
In July, GSK acquired Corixa Corporation for £150 million and in 2,999 2,886 2 4
December, completed the acquisition of ID Biomedical Corporation for
£0.9 billion. The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of 2% to £3.0 billion
comprised an OTC medicines sales increase of 1%, a Nutritional
Oncology and emesis
healthcare sales increase of 7% and an Oral care sales increase
Sales of Zofrangrew 9% to £837 million, driven by the US market,
of 2%.
up 12% to £639 million.GSK Annual Report 2006
50
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2005
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area 2005
Total USA Europe International
Therapeutic area/ % of 2005 2004 Growth 2005 Growth 2005 Growth 2005 Growth
major products total £m £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £% £m CER% £%
Respiratory 27 5,054 4,394 14 15 2,580 17 18 1,660 8 9 814 13 17
Seretide/Advair 3,003 2,441 22 23 1,687 26 27 1,033 16 17 283 16 24
Flixotide/Flovent 638 618 2 3 262 4 4 188 (3) (1) 188 3 6
Serevent 330 349 (7) (5) 104 (20) (19) 160 (3) (1) 66 12 14
Flixonase/Flonase 656 578 13 13 506 12 12 60 (1) 2 90 27 30
Central Nervous System 17 3,219 3,462 (8) (7) 2,051 (10) (10) 704 (7) (6) 464 2 5
Seroxat/Paxil 615 1,063 (42) (42) 133 (75) (74) 187 (26) (25) 295 – 1
PaxilIR 488 667 (27) (27) 18 (87) (87) 187 (26) (25) 283 (1) (1)
Paxil CR 127 396 (68) (68) 115 (70) (70) – – – 12 40 50
Wellbutrin 739 751 (2) (2) 723 (2) (2) 2 42 100 14 (14) (7)
Wellbutrin IR, SR 92 284 (68) (68) 80 (70) (70) 2 42 100 10 (35) (23)
Wellbutrin XL 647 467 38 39 643 37 38 – – – 4 >100 100
Imigran/Imitrex 697 682 1 2 504 2 2 144 1 1 49 (2) 2
Lamictal 849 677 24 25 568 36 37 226 3 4 55 15 22
Requip 156 116 34 34 80 50 51 68 21 21 8 22 14
Anti-virals 14 2,598 2,359 9 10 1,285 10 10 773 6 7 540 12 15
HIV 1,554 1,462 5 6 766 2 3 607 8 9 181 12 15
Combivir 583 570 1 2 283 1 1 227 – 1 73 8 12
Trizivir 303 322 (6) (6) 166 (7) (6) 123 (5) (5) 14 (8) (7)
Epivir 261 294 (12) (11) 93 (33) (33) 122 4 6 46 12 15
Ziagen 136 155 (14) (12) 55 (26) (25) 54 (8) (10) 27 11 23
Retrovir 41 43 (6) (5) 14 (17) (18) 16 (6) – 11 12 10
Agenerase, Lexiva 112 63 77 78 70 50 52 36 >100 >100 6 46 20
Epzicom/Kivexa 118 1 >100 >100 85 – – 29 >100 >100 4 >100 >100
Herpes 826 718 14 15 476 24 25 139 – 1 211 4 6
Valtrex 695 571 21 22 470 26 27 98 9 9 127 12 13
Zovirax 131 147 (11) (11) 6 (32) (45) 41 (16) (15) 84 (6) (5)
Zeffix 145 130 9 12 12 11 9 21 (8) (5) 112 13 15
Anti-bacterials 8 1,519 1,547 (3) (2) 261 (27) (27) 718 3 4 540 5 7
Augmentin 666 708 (7) (6) 139 (38) (38) 316 5 6 211 11 13
Augmentin IR 552 533 2 4 40 (34) (32) 305 3 4 207 11 14
Augmentin ES, XR 114 175 (35) (35) 99 (40) (40) 11 97 83 4 (19) (20)
Zinnat/Ceftin 197 205 (6) (4) 10 2 11 112 (9) (7) 75 (4) (1)
Metabolic 8 1,495 1,251 18 20 995 16 17 190 39 43 310 12 17
Avandia 1,154 892 27 29 864 31 32 112 20 23 178 15 22
Avandamet 175 222 (22) (21) 113 (43) (43) 45 >100 >100 17 2 13
Bonviva/Boniva 18 – >100 >100 17 – – 1 >100 >100 – – –
Vaccines 8 1,389 1,194 15 16 338 26 26 592 12 14 459 10 13
Hepatitis 444 405 8 10 137 1 2 224 11 12 83 13 17
Infanrix, Pediarix 431 356 19 21 145 13 12 202 24 25 84 20 27
Oncology and emesis 5 1,016 934 8 9 761 12 12 164 (4) (4) 91 1 7
Zofran 837 763 9 10 639 12 13 124 (5) (5) 74 3 9
Hycamtin 99 99 (1) – 66 2 3 27 (6) (7) 6 (6) –
Cardiovascular and 7
urogenital 1,331 932 41 43 766 36 36 415 57 59 150 32 39
Coreg 573 432 32 33 568 33 34 – – – 5 (30) (29)
Levitra 40 49 (19) (18) 35 79 75 4 (78) (81) 1 (94) (88)
Avodart 129 64 100 >100 65 90 91 55 >100 >100 9 >100 >100
Arixtra 24 6 >100 >100 15 >100 >100 8 >100 >100 1 >100 >100
Fraxiparine 211 56 >100 >100 – – – 179 >100 >100 32 >100 >100
Vesicare 13 – – – 13 – – – – – – – –
Other 6 1,040 1,027 – 1 69 (22) (22) 321 (2) (1) 650 3 6
Zantac 244 273 (12) (11) 58 (19) (17) 64 (15) (11) 122 (6) (7)
100 18,661 17,100 8 9 9,106 8 8 5,537 8 9 4,018 9 12
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.£% represents growth at actual exchange rates.GSK Annual Report 2006
51
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2005
continued
OTCmedicines This was due to lower charges related to legal matters, equal to a 2%
Over-the-counter medicine sales were £1,437 million, up 1%. Growth reduction in total SG&A, and lower share-based payment charges,
from analgesics, up 6%, and respiratory tract, up 5%, helped offset equal to a 1% decrease in total SG&A, partly offset by higher costs
the loss of sales from the dermatological products divested in 2004. related to programmes to deliver future cost savings equal to a 1%
Panadol growth of 12% in International markets was the key driver increase in total SG&A.
of the growth in analgesics.
Research and development
Oral care R&D expenditure as a percentage of turnover was 14.5%, in line with
Oral care sales grew 2% to £943 million. Sales of Sensodyneand the 2004, and increased 8% compared with the previous year, partly as
denture care brands (Polident, Poligripand Corega) grew by 12% a result of some write-offs of intangible assets. Excluding these write-
and 6%, respectively, helping to offset lower sales of other offs, R&D expenditure grew slightly below turnover growth.
toothpaste products. Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure represented 16.2% of
pharmaceutical turnover.
Nutritional healthcare
Nutritional healthcare product sales grew 7% to £619 million. Other operating income
Lucozade, up 11%, continued to grow strongly in Europe. Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment
disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value
Operating profit
adjustments to the Quest collar and Theravance options. Other
The analysis below of operating profit and subsequent discussion operating income was £364 million in 2005 compared with £235
compares the 2005 results with 2004 results. million in 2004. The increased income in 2005 is predominantly due
to increased product and asset disposal gains compared with 2004,
2005 2004 Growth
£m % £m % CER% £% and a favourable fair value movement of £19 million in the Quest
collar and the Theravance options.
Turnover 21,660 100.0 19,986 100.0 7 8
Cost of sales (4,764) (22.0) (4,360) (21.8) 8 9 Operating profit
Selling, general Overall, the operating profit margin increased 2.9 percentage points
and administration (7,250) (33.5) (7,201) (36.0) – 1 as operating profit of £6,874 million increased 19% in sterling terms.
Research and At constant exchange rates operating profit increased 16% and the
development (3,136) (14.5) (2,904) (14.5) 8 8 margin increased 2.5 percentage points, reflecting the lower charges
Other operating relating to legal matters and share-based payments, higher product
income 364 1.7 235 1.1 and asset disposals and increases in advertising, promotion and selling
that were below the rate of turnover growth. Partially offsetting these
Operating profit 6,874 31.7 5,756 28.8 16 19
items were higher costs related to programmes to deliver future cost
savings and increased R&D expenditure.
Cost of sales
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased 0.2 percentage Profit before taxation
points. At constant exchange rates, the increase was also 0.2
percentage points, reflecting higher costs related to the ongoing The discussion below compares the 2005 results with the 2004 results.
rectification of manufacturing issues at the Cidra site in Puerto Rico, Gains from asset disposals, including associates, were £290 million
which were only partly offset by operating efficiencies compared with (2004 – £295 million), costs for legal matters were £430 million (2004
the previous year. – £595 million) and charges relating to cost-saving programmes were
£141 million (2004 – £104 million). Share-based payments in 2005
Selling, general and administration
were £236 million (2004 – £333 million).
Selling, general and administration (SG&A) as a percentage of
turnover decreased 2.5 percentage points. At constant exchange Share of profits/(losses) of joint ventures and associated
rates, the decrease was 2.2 percentage points, reflecting flat undertakings
expenditure compared with the prior year on a turnover increase of The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Group’s
7%. SG&A costs were in line with 2004 overall, with higher holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc..
advertising, promotion and selling expense being offset by lower Disposal of interest in associates
general and administration expenditure. Advertising, promotion and
There were no disposals of interests in associates in 2005. During
selling expenses increased 3% and accounted for a 2% increase in
2004, the Group disposed of 3.8 million shares from its investment
total SG&A. General and administration costs declined 4% and
in Quest Diagnostics Inc. for cash proceeds of £188 million. A profit
accounted for a 2% reduction in total SG&A.
of £150 million was recognised. The Group’s shareholding in Quest
as at 31st December 2005 was 18.4%.GSK Annual Report 2006
52
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Business review
Financial review 2005
continued
Net finance costs Profit for the year
2005 2004 2005 2004 Growth
Finance income £m £m £m £m CER% £%
Interest income 276 173 Profit after taxation for the year 4,816 4,022 17 20
Unwinding of discount on assets – 3
Profit attributable to
Fair value adjustments (19) – shareholders 4,689 3,908 17 20
257 176 Earnings per share (pence) 82.6p 68.1p 18 21
Earnings per ADS (US$) $3.00 $2.49 18 21
Finance costs Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,674 5,736
Interest costs (427) (346)
Unwinding of discount on liabilities (25) (16) Diluted earnings per share (pence) 82.0p 68.0p
Fair value adjustments 1 – Diluted earnings per ADS (US$) $2.98 $2.49
(451) (362) Weighted average number
of shares (millions) 5,720 5,748
Finance income increased compared with 2004 predominantly due to
higher interest rates and higher cash balances. Finance costs increased Profit for the year was £4,816 million, an increase of 17% (20% in
due to higher interest rates as well as higher interest costs resulting sterling terms). Profit attributable to minority interests was
from the issue of two € 750 million bonds in 2005. £127 million and profit attributable to shareholders was £4,689
million, an increase of 17% (20% in sterling terms).
Taxation
Earnings per share increased 18%, reflecting higher profits and also
2005 2004 the reduction in the weighted average number of shares resulting
£m £m
from the Group’s share buy-back programme. The interest cost of this
UK corporation tax 172 148 programme also impacts the Group’s earnings.
Overseas taxation 1,847 1,519
At actual rates of exchange, earnings per share increased 21%. The
Current taxation 2,019 1,667
favourable currency impact on EPS of three percentage points reflects
Deferred taxation (103) 90
a strengthening of the US dollar and Euro average exchange rates
Total 1,916 1,757 relative to 2004 and compares with a 1% favourable currency impact
on turnover. This difference principally arises from a different mix of
The charge for taxation on profit, amounting to £1,916 million,
currencies in profits compared with turnover.
represents an effective tax rate of 28.5% (2004 – 30.4%). The tax rate
in 2005 of 28.5% benefited from higher tax relief on the actual or
potential exercise of share options by employees, arising from the
increase in the share price in the year.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving
significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a
limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply
routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay
in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which
individual Group companies are liable to tax.Disagreements with,
and between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in
particular the price at which goods should be transferred between
Group companies in different tax jurisdictions, can produce conflicting
claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in
individual territories. Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of
life for GSK. The Group hadsignificant open issues with the revenue
authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada, details of which are
set out in Note12to the financial statements, ‘Taxation’.GSK Annual Report 2006
53
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Corporate governance
This section discusses GlaxoSmithKline’s management structures and
governance procedures.
It contains the company’s reporting disclosures on corporate
governance required by the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance of the Financial Reporting Council (Combined Code),
including the required statement of compliance.
Further, the company reports on compliance with the USlaws and
regulations that apply to it.
The Board 54
Corporate Executive Team 55
Governance and policy 56
Dialogue with shareholders 58
Annual General Meeting 59
Internal control framework 59
Committee reports 60
The Combined Code 62
US law and regulation 63GSK Annual Report 2006
54
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Corporate governance
continued
The Board Dr Daniel Podolsky (Aged 53)
Appointed on 1st July 2006. Non-Executive Director. Dr Podolsky is
Sir Christopher Gent (Aged 58)
Mallinkrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology at
Appointed on 1st June 2004. Chairman. Sir Christopher was the Chief
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School as well
Executive Officer of Vodafone Group plc, until his retirement in July
as Chief Academic Officer of Partners HealthCare System. He ispast
2003. He is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc,
editor-in-chief of the journal Gastroenterology,Past President of the
a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari S.p.A., a member of KPMG’s
American Gastroenterological Association and Chairman of the Board
Chairman’s Advisory Group,a member of the Financial Reporting
andScientific Co-Founder of the GICompany.
Council,a Senior Adviser at Bain &Co. and a member of the advisory
board of Reform. Sir Ian Prosser (Aged 63)
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Senior Independent Director. Sir Ian
Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier (Aged 59)
was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc. He
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Chief Executive Officer. Dr Garnier
was Chairman and Chief Executive of Bass plc and ultimately
was appointed an Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in
Chairman of the demerged InterContinental Hotels Group plc. He
1992, and became Chief Executive Officer in April 2000. He is a Non-
was Chairman of the World Travel andTourism Council and the
Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation and a member
London Stock Exchange Listed Advisory Council. He is Non-Executive
of the Board of Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships. He
Deputy Chairman of BP plc, a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee
holds a PhD in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in
Corporationand a member of the CBI President’s Committee.
France and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz (Aged 68)
Dr Stephanie Burns (Aged 52)
Appointed on 23rd May 2000. Non-Executive Director. Dr Schmitz
Appointed on 12th February 2007. Non-Executive Director. Dr Burns
was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc. He is
is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dow Corning
a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc,a member of
Corporation.She is also a member of the American Chemical Society
the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot
and sits on the Executive Committee of the Society of Chemical
Corporationand a member of the Supervisory Board of SICKAG.
Industry,America Section,serves onthe American Chemistry Council,
on the Board of Directors for the Society for Women’s Health Research Dr Moncef Slaoui (Aged 47)
and on the Board of Trustees of The Conference Board. Dr Burns holds Appointed on 17th May 2006. Chairman, Research &Development.
aPhDin organic chemistry from Iowa State University. Dr Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the
development of a robust vaccines pipeline. He has a PhD in Molecular
Lawrence Culp (Aged 43)
Biology and Immunology from Université Libre de Bruxelles.
Appointed on 1st July 2003. Non-Executive Director. Mr Culp is
President and Chief Executive Officer of Danaher Corporation. Prior Tom de Swaan (Aged 60)
to joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, previously Appointed on 1st January 2006. Non-Executive Director. Mr de Swaan
Andersen Consulting. was a member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial Officer of
ABN AMROuntil 1st January 2006. Hewasa Non-Executive Director
Sir Crispin Davis (Aged 57)
of the Financial Services Authority. He is a member oftheBoard of
Appointed on 1st July 2003. Non-Executive Director. Sir Crispin is
Directors of Zurich Financial Services in Switzerland and a member of
Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC. Prior to that, he was Chief
the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM and Buhrmann in the
Executive of Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Guinness plc,
Netherlands. He isChairman of the Board of the Netherlands Opera
where he was a member of the main board and Group Managing
and a member of the Board of the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra.
Director of United Distillers. He spent his early career with Procter &
Gamble. Sir Robert Wilson (Aged 63)
Appointed on 1st November 2003. Non-Executive Director. Sir Robert
Julian Heslop (Aged 53)
is Non-Executive Chairman of BGGroup plc andThe Economist Group
Appointedon 1st April 2005. Chief Financial Officer. Mr Heslop joined
and was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998. In January 2001,
following the merger, he was appointed Senior Vice President, Other Directors
Operations Controller. Prior to joining Glaxo Wellcome, he held senior Dr Lucy Shapiro, formerly Non-Executive Director, retired from the
finance roles at Grand Metropolitan PLC. Board on 17th May 2006. Dr Tachi Yamada, formerly Chairman,
Research &Development, retired from the Board on 31st May 2006.
Sir Deryck Maughan (Aged 59)
Appointed on 1st June 2004. Non-Executive Director. Sir Deryck is a Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on
Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &Co. He was formerly page57.
Chairman and CEO of Citigroup International and of Salomon
Brothers Inc. He is a Non-Executive Director of Reuters Group plcand
BlackRock Inc. as well as serving on the Boards of Directors of
Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center and NYUMedical Center. He servedas
Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from 1996 to 2000.GSK Annual Report 2006
55
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Corporate governance
continued
Corporate Executive Team (CET) Bill Louv
Chief Information Officer
JP Garnier
Mr Louv succeeded Dr Calhoun as Chief Information Officer on 31st
Chief Executive Officer
January 2007. He is responsible for information technology, a global
As Chief Executive Officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the
function that enables key business processes across all parts of the
management of the Group. He oversees all operational aspects of
Group. He joined the company in 1994 and has held a number of
the Group, including establishing policies, objectives and initiatives,
increasingly senior roles in IT, including for US Pharmaceuticals and
and he directs long-term strategy. He was formerly Chief Executive
GSK’s R&D functions.
Officer of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
Dan Phelan
Rupert Bondy
Senior Vice President, Human Resources
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Mr Phelan is responsible for benefits, compensation, recruitment,
Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, together
organisation development, leadership development and succession
with environmental, health and safety issuesand security. He was a
planning, human resource information systems and employee health
lawyer in private practice before joining SmithKline Beecham in 1995.
management. He was a lawyer in private practice before joining Smith
John Clarke Kline &French in 1981.
President, Consumer Healthcare
David Pulman
Mr Clarke is responsible for the Consumer Healthcare business which
President, Global ManufacturingandSupply
produces oral, over-the-counter and nutritional healthcare products.
Dr Pulman is responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply
He joined Beecham in 1976 and was the President of the Futures
Organisation and Global Procurement. He joined Glaxo in 1978 and
Group before his current appointment in January 2006.
was responsible for the North American supply network,
Marc Dunoyer manufacturing strategy and logistics until his current appointment
President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in 2002.
Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in March
Moncef Slaoui
2003. He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice President and
Chairman, Research & Development
Regional Director, Japan until his current appointment.
Dr Slaoui leads the Group’s complexdrug discovery and development
Russell Greig activities. He joined the Group in 1988 and was Senior Vice President,
President, Pharmaceuticals International Worldwide Business Development until his current appointment in
Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA, Japan June 2006.
and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries. He joined the
David Stout
Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business
President, Pharmaceutical Operations
Development for R&D prior to his current appointment in
Mr Stout is responsible forall pharmaceuticals and vaccinesoperations
March 2003.
worldwide, including the USA, Europe, International, Japan and
Julian Heslop Global Manufacturing and Supply. He joined SmithKline Beecham in
Chief Financial Officer 1996 and was President, USPharmaceuticals, until his current
Mr Heslop became Chief Financial Officer on 1st April 2005. As head appointment in January 2003.
of the finance function Mr Heslop is responsible for activities such as
Chris Viehbacher
financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, finance systems,
President, USPharmaceuticals
internal audit, insuranceand real estate.He joined Glaxo Wellcome
Mr Viehbacher is responsible for US Pharmaceuticals. He joined
as Financial Controller in April 1998.
Wellcome in 1988 and was responsible for GSK’s European
Duncan Learmouth Pharmaceuticals business before his current appointment in 2003.
Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications and
Andrew Witty
Community Partnerships
President, Pharmaceuticals Europe
Mr Learmouth is responsible for the Group’s investor relations, internal
Mr Wittyis responsible for the Group’s pharmaceuticals operationsin
and external communications, its image and partnerships with global
Europe. He joined Glaxo in 1985 andwas Senior Vice President, Asia
communities. He joined Glaxoin 1991 and was Vice President, Global
Pacific until his current appointment in 2003.
Investor Relations, before appointment to his current position in
July 2006. Other members
Mr Ziegler retired as head of theConsumer Healthcare business on
31st January 2006. Mrs Younger left the Group in June 2006and
Dr Calhoun retired as Chief Information Officer on 31st January 2007.
Mr Ingram continues toactas a specialconsultantto the Group and
attendsCET meetings in that capacity.Corporate governance
continued
Governance and policy Sir Ian Prosser was appointed Senior Independent Director (SID) on 1st
January 2005 and held this role throughout 2006.
The Board and Corporate Executive Team
The Directors are listed under ‘The Board’on page54. Board process
The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for
The Board is responsible for the Group’s system of corporate
ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and achieves the
governance and is ultimately accountable for the Group’s activities,
strategic objectives it sets. The Board discharges those responsibilities
strategy and financial performance.
through an annual programme of meetings which includes the
The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is responsible for executive approval of overall budgetary planning and business strategy. The
management of the Group and is assisted by the CET. The CET meets Board reviews the company’s internal controls and risk management
11times per year and otherwise as necessary. The members and policies and approves its governance structure and code of ethics.
their responsibilities are listed under ‘Corporate Executive Team’
The Board appraises and approves major financing, investment and
(page55).
licensingdecisions in excess of defined thresholds. In addition,the
The Board comprisesthreeExecutive andtenNon-Executive Directors. Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a
The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be independent whole. This includes:
in character and judgement. Dr Schmitz has served on the Board for
•engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive
more than nine years, having been appointed to the Board of Glaxo
Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the financial
Wellcome plc on 1st January 1997. During consideration of the
and operating performance of GSK and external issues material to
Annual Review of Board effectiveness at its meeting in December
the Group’s prospects
2006, the Board concluded that Dr Schmitz remained independent,
notwithstanding his length of service. In the opinion of the Board, •evaluating progress toward the achievement of the Group’s financial
Dr Schmitz continued to demonstrate the characteristics of and business objectives and annual plans
independence, such as objectively challenging management and
•monitoring, through reports received directly or from various
taking part in rigorous debate, while at the same time possessing an
committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
outstanding knowledge of the company’s business and affairs,
together with his experience gained as Chairman of the Audit The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for the
Committee. In a long cycle investment business, such as GSK, it was CEO and the other Executive Directors. The Board has given the CEO
considered to be particularly important to have experienced members broad authority to operate the business of the Group, and the CEO
on the Board. When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed to the Board is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, business performance.
as Deputy Chairman, he was determined by the Board to be
CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their areas
independent. Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board on 1st
of responsibility, and the Board meets with all the CET members on
January 2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he was
an annual basis to discuss collectively the Group’s strategy.
excluded from the determination of whether at least half the Board
are independent Non-Executive Directors. Sir Christopher Gent did A primary element of the induction process for new Non-Executive
not hold a position on a Board Committee where independence was Directors is undertaken by members of the CET, and all Non-Executive
required under the Combined Code.He has however been appointed Directors are encouraged to have separate informal discussions at
a member of the Remuneration Committee effective 1st January 2007 their discretion with any CETmembers.
following the recent change to the Combined Code.
The Board metsixtimes in 2006, with each member attending as
The Board considers that Dr Burns, Mr Culp, Sir Crispin Davis,Sir follows:
Deryck Maughan, Dr Podolsky, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz, Mr de Number of meetings Number of
Swaan and Sir Robert Wilson are independent in accordance with Name held whilst a Board member meetings attended
the recommendations of the Combined Code. Sir Christopher Gent 6 6
Dr JPGarnier 6 6
At the date of publication and throughout 2006, a majority of the
Mr J Heslop 6 6
Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent Non-
Dr M Slaoui 4 4
Executive Directors. Dr Shapiro, who left the Board on 17th May 2006
Mr L Culp 6 5
was not considered to be independent due to the remuneration that
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6
she received from the Group as a member of the GlaxoSmithKline
Sir Deryck Maughan 6 4
Scientific Advisory Board.
Dr D Podolsky 3 3
Sir Christopher Gent succeeded Sir Christopher Hogg on 1st January Sir Ian Prosser 6 5
2005 and chaired the company throughout 2006. Dr Garnier is the Dr R Schmitz 6 6
CEO. The Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Board to the Mr T de Swaan 6 5
CEO and other CET members as necessary between Board meetings. Sir Robert Wilson 6 6
The CEO manages the Group and implements the strategy and Dr T Yamada 3 3
policies adopted by the Board. The Chairman and the chairmen of Dr L Shapiro 3 3
Board Committees communicate regularly with the CEO and other
In addition to thesixscheduled meetings, the Board also met on a
CET members. The division of responsibilities between the role of
quorate basis onthreeoccasions.
Chairman and the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by the
Board and appears in full on the company’s website.
GSK Annual Report 2006
56
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
Business environment development Audit Committee
To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important matters, The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting
including legal, governance and regulatory developments, process, the system of internal controls, the management of risks and
presentations are made on a regular basis by both external and the external and internal audit process. The Committee also proposes
internal advisers. to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors and is
directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
Independent advice
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive
The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more
Directors. It meets at least four times a year and otherwise as
of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal and/or
necessary. The Audit Committee Report is on pages60to62.
financial advice at the company’s expense. There is an agreed
procedure to enable them to do so. This is explained in the Corporate Remuneration Committee
Governance section of the company’s website. The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and
remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET
Indemnification of Directors
and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it evaluates
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in section
and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive
309B(1) of the Companies Act 1985) are in force for the benefit of
remuneration policy.The Committee consists entirely of independent
the Directors and former Directors who held office during 2006.
Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman,in accordance
Company Secretary with the Combined Code.It meets at leastfourtimes a year and
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available to otherwise as necessary. Information on the remuneration of Directors
individual Directors in respect of Board procedures. The Company is given in the Remuneration Report on pages65to82.
Secretary is Simon Bicknell, who was appointed in May 2000. He is a
The Chairman of the company and the CEO are responsible for
barrister and joined the Group in 1984. He is secretary to all the Board
evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the
Committees.
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
BoardCommittees
Nominations Committee
The Board has established a number ofCommittees and provides
The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and
sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
composition of the Board and the appointment of memberstothe
Executive Directors are not members of the Audit, Remuneration,
Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board as
Nominations or Corporate Responsibility Committees, although they
appropriate. The Committee also monitors the planning of succession
may be invited to attend meetings. Each Director is a member of the
to the Board and Senior Management. The Committee consists
Corporate Administration &Transactions and Financial Results
entirely of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a majority are
Committees. Membership of theseCommittees isshown in the table
independent, and meets at least once a year and otherwise as
below.
necessary. The Nominations Committee Report is given on page62.
Corporate
Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Committee
Sir Christopher Gent – M C C The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of Non-
Dr Burns – – – – Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the regular
Mr L Culp – M – – review of external issues that have the potential for serious impact
Sir Crispin Davis – M – – upon the Group’s business and reputation andfor the oversight of
Sir Deryck Maughan M – – – reputationand the views of external stakeholders. The Committee is
Dr D Podolsky M – – M also responsible for governance oversight of the Group’s worldwide
Sir Ian Prosser M – M M donations and community support. The Committee meets formally
Dr R Schmitz* M M M – threetimes a year and otherwise as necessary.
Mr T de Swaan* C – – M
Financial Results Committee
Sir Robert Wilson M C – –
The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of
* Mr de Swaan succeeded Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the Audit Committee from the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review and
September 2006.
the convening of the Annual General Meeting, together with the
Key:C = Chairman. M = Member.
preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results. Each Director
The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of each is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a meeting is any
Committee. The current full terms of reference of eachCommittee three members. To be quorate, each meeting must include the
may be obtained from the Company Secretary or theGovernance Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CEO or
section of the company’s website. the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The Committee meets as necessary.
GSK Annual Report 2006
57
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee The Group’s Investor Relations department, with offices in London
The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews and and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors
approves matters in connection with the administration of the Group’s throughout the year.
business, and certain corporate transactions. The Committee consists
The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to hear their
of the Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary. The
views and discuss issues of mutual importance.
Committee meets as necessary.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meetsannuallywith
Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors
major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy.
The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and
Directors during 2006was undertaken by the SID and implemented All Non-Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available
in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen, with the support of to meet with major shareholders if requested.
the Company Secretary. The Board considered the review conclusions
The company’s website provides access to current financial and
at its meeting in December 2006 and agreed a number of minor
business information about the Group.
improvements to its procedures and operating methodology.
Share buy-back programme
An external consultant was appointed to assist in the evaluation of
The company has repurchased £7.8 billion of its own shares for
the Audit Committee.
cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which £1.3billion
was spent in 2006. In October 2006,a programme totalling£6 billion
Dialogue with shareholders
ofshare repurchases over three years commenced. It is expected that
Financial results are announced quarterly. £2 billion worth of shares will be brought back inthe first 12 months.
These programmes cover purchases by the company of shares for
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its
cancellation or to be held as Treasuryshares, in accordance with the
half-year and full-year results are announced. The full-year results are
authority renewed by shareholders at the company’s AGM in 2006.
included in the company’s Annual Report and Annual Review, which
arepublished forshareholders. The company’s half-year results are In May 2006, the company was authorised to purchase a maximum
published in a national newspaper shortly after release. The CEO,CFO of582millionshares. During 2006,92.6million shares, representing
and President, Pharmaceutical Operationsgive presentations on the 1.7% of the issued share capital, were purchasedand held as Treasury
full-year results to institutional investors, analysts and the media. shares (see Note31to thefinancial statements, ‘Share capital and
share premium account’).
There are webcast teleconferences after the release of the first, second
and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts and the The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to
media. The Annual Report, Annual Review and quarterly results are which repurchased shares will be held as Treasuryshares rather than
available on the company’s website. being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent
on market conditions and other factors.
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) takes place in London, and
formal notification is sent to shareholders at least one month in Donations to Political Organisations and EU
advance. At the Meeting, a business presentation is made to Political Expenditure
shareholders and all Directors able to attend are available, formally At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company
during theAGM, and informally afterwards, for questions. Committee to make donations to EU Political Organisations and to incur EU
Chairmen ordinarily attend the AGM to respond to shareholders’ Political Expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties,
questions. The entire Board was in attendance atthecompany’s AGM Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to £100,000 each year.
in May 2006. All resolutions at the AGM are decided on a poll as This authority has since been renewed annually. Although the
required by the company’s Articles of Association. The results of the company does not make and does not intend to make such payments
poll are announced to the London Stock Exchange and posted on or donations to EU political parties, within the normal meaning of
the company’s website. Details of the 2007 AGM are set out in the that expression, the definition in the legislation of ’EU Political
section ‘Annual General Meeting’(seepage59). Organisation’ is wide. It may extend to bodies, which the company
and its subsidiaries might wish to support including those concerned
To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and
with policy review, law reform, the representation of the business
understand the views of major shareholders about the company, the
community and special interest groups, such as those concerned with
Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specific issues, as well
the environment. No donations were made to EU Political
as general shareholder preferences. Atits meeting inSeptember, the
Organisations during 2006. The Group made donations to non-EU
Board received an external review ofshareholder opinion.
Political Organisations totalling £319,000 during 2006
The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders (£320,000 in 2005).
on performance, plans and objectives through a programme of
regular meetings.
GSK Annual Report 2006
58
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
Donations of £290,000(£301,000 in 2005) were made in the USA, • Special business
£27,000(£19,000 in 2005) in Canadaand £2,000 in Australia. The The company will seek authority to:
USA is the largest recipient of political donations, and this reflects the
• make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur EU
US political system, where candidates are sponsored solely by
Political Expenditure
donations from individuals, NGOs, companies and other parties.
• allot Ordinary Shares in the company
In line with US law, the corporate donations by GSK are not made at
a federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the state • give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights when
and local levels. Donations are accepted practice in the USA, and as allotting newShares in connection with rights issues or otherwise
a major employer in a heavily regulated industry, it is important for up to a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and
GSK to engage fully in the political process. Donations are one of the purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of just under
ways of doing this. GSKsupports those candidates who seek an 10% of the current issued share capital
environment that appropriately rewards high-risk, high-investment
• amend the company’sArticles ofAssociationtoenableelectronic
industries and who believe in free market principles and intellectual
communicationwith shareholders,in accordance with the new
property rights.
Companies Act 2006.
The situation is similar in Canada, and donations follow the same
guidelines. In the rest of the world donations are very rare and of Internal control framework
low value.
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and
There is also a GSK Political Action Committee (PAC) in the USA which understandable assessment of the Group’s position and prospects.
gives political donations. PAC’s are employee organisations which The structure of accountability and audit operated in GSK is as follows.
allow employees to contribute to a fund for political donations.
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the adequacy
Employees decide upon the recipients of the PAC donations. In 2006,
and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including
a total of £735,600(£282,000 in 2005) was donated to political
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
organisations by the GSK PAC.
The Board has delegated responsibility for such review to the Audit
Committee, which receives reports from those individuals identified in
Annual General Meeting
the Committee’s Report on pages60to62. It is the responsibility of
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 23rd May 2007 at management, through the CET, to implement Board policies on risk
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, and control. The CET is responsible for identifying, approving,
Westminster, London SW1P 3EE. The business to be transacted at the monitoring and enforcing key policies that go to the heart of how the
meeting will include: Group conducts business. The internal control framework includes
central direction, resource allocation and risk management of the key
• Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline's 2006 Annual
activities of research and development, manufacturing, marketing and
Report
sales, legal, human resources, information systems and financial
•Approving the 2006 Remuneration Report practice. As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning
The Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 82 sets out the system with an annual budget approved by the Board. The results of
remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures operating units are reported monthly and compared to the budget.
on Directors’ remuneration, including those required by the Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
Companies Act 1985 and the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises and
Regulations 2002. A resolution will be proposed to approve the
risk activities are reviewed by the Group’s internal auditors. Commercial
Remuneration Report.
and financial responsibility, however, is clearly delegated to local
• Retirement, election and re-election of Directors business units, supported by a regional management structure. These
Dr Podolsky andDr Burnshave been appointedDirectors since the principles are designed to provide an environment of central leadership
2006AGM and will offerthemselves for election to the Board.Mr coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework for the
Heslop,Sir Deryck Maughan, Dr Schmitz and Sir Robert Wilson will exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
each retire and offer themselves for re-election to the Board under
The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and procedures
article 93 of the company’s Articles of Association.
designed to achieve appropriate accountability and control. A Group
• Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors policy, ‘Risk Management and Legal Compliance’, mandates that
Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers business units establish processes for managing and monitoring risks
LLP as auditors and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine significant to their businesses and the Group.
their remuneration.
The internal control framework also relies on the following for
overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
GSK Annual Report 2006
59
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
Risk Oversight and Compliance Council (ROCC) Areas of potentially significant risk
The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board For details of risks affecting the Group, see‘Risk factors’ on pages 44
to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and to 47 and Note43to thefinancial statements, ‘Legal proceedings’.
internal control activities of the Group. Membership comprises several
Effectiveness of controls
CETmembers and some of the heads of departments with internal
The internal control framework has been in operation for the whole
control, risk management, audit and compliance responsibilities.
of the year under review and continues to operate up to the date of
The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant approval of this report. The system of internal controls is designed to
risks and their mitigation plans. The ROCC, responding to the Group manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business
policy referred to above, has provided the business units with a objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute
framework for risk management and upward reporting of significant assurance against material misstatement or loss.
risks. Mitigation planning and identification of a manager with overall
The Audit Committee receives reports on areas of significant risk to
responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
the Group and on related internal controls. Following consideration
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) of these reports, the Audit Committee reports annually to the Board
Risk Management and Compliance Boards (RMCBs) have been on the effectiveness of controls. Such controls may mitigate but
established in each of the major business units. Membership often cannot eliminate risks. In addition, there are areas of the Group’s
comprises members of the senior executive team of the respective business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve a satisfactory
business unit, augmented by specialists where appropriate. The RMCBs return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D and in acquiring
oversee management of all risks that are considered important for their new products or businesses. In these cases, it is the Group’s objective
respective business units, including those risks that are designated as to apply its expertise in the prudent management rather than
significant to GlaxoSmithKline as a whole, thus increasing the number elimination of risk. The Directors’ review relates to the company and
of risks that are actively managed across the Group. its subsidiaries and does not extend to material associated
undertakings, joint ventures or other investments.
Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its significant risks
to the ROCC. The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
Compliance functions
in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the system
In a number of risk areas, specific standards that meet or exceed
of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by
requirements of applicable law have been established. Specialist audit
this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board. The process
and compliance functions (for example:Corporate Environment,
followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal controls
Health & Safety, Global Quality Assurance and Worldwide Regulatory
accords with the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull
Compliance) assist in the dissemination, implementation and audit
Committee in 1999.
of these standards.
Corporate Ethics & Compliance (CEC) Committee reports
The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance
Audit Committee Report
department which is responsible for supporting the development and
The Audit Committee’s role flows directly from the Board’s oversight
implementation of practices that facilitate employees’ compliance
function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity
with laws and Group policy.
within its terms of reference. The Committee has written terms of
The thrust of the Group’s compliance effort is due diligence in reference which have been approved by the Board. The Committee
preventing and detecting misconduct and non-compliance with law reports regularly to the Board on the performance of the activities it
or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with all laws has been assigned. The Committee’s main responsibilities include
and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levelsand effective reviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting process,
compliance systems. monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, evaluating the
system of internal control and the management of risks, overseeing
The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance Officer, who
activities of each of the Group’s compliance audit functions and
reports directly to the CEO. The Corporate Compliance Officer chairs
overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of
the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCC’s activities and
practice. The Committee’s oversight role requires it to address regularly
the Group’s significant risks to the CET and the Audit Committee on
the relationships between management and the internal and external
a regular basis.The Corporate Compliance Officer’s direct reporting
auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting relationships and
line to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism for bypassing the
tiers of accountability between them.
executive management should the need ever arise.
GSK Annual Report 2006
60
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET In 2006, the Committee worked to a structured programme of
and senior managers covering the key compliance activities of the activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to
Group, including those concerning R&D, manufacturing, sales and consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to
marketing and EHS. coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle:
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting •the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical
experience to the Committee’s work. Members have past accounting policies and practices used by the company, alternative
employment experience in either finance or accounting roles or accounting treatments which had been discussed with
comparable experience in corporate activities. management and the resultant conclusion by the external auditors,
material written communications with management and any
Dr Schmitz was the Chairman of the Committee from April 2001 until restrictions on access to information
September 2006. Prior to his appointment as a Non-Executive Director
•the CFO reported on the financial performance of the company
of the company, he was a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome
and on technical financial and accounting matters
plc, where he served on the Audit Committee. Dr Schmitz has also
been a member of the Executive Board of Directors of Deutsche Bank •the General Counsel reported on material litigation
AG. He retired from that Board in 2000 having been in charge of •the Company Secretary reported on corporate governance
investment banking. Dr Schmitz was formerly a member of the
•the Heads of each of the Group’s compliance and audit groups
Executive Board of Directors of BASF from 1980 to 1990, including
reported on their audit scope, annual coverage, audit resources and
CFO from 1985 to 1990. He holds an MBA from Insead.
on the results of audits conducted throughout the year
Mr de Swaan joined the Board and the Committee with effect from
• the Corporate Compliance Officer reported on the activities
1st January 2006. He succeeded Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the
undertaken by the ROCC
Committee with effect from September 2006. When appointing Mr
•the Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee,
de Swaan to the Committee, the Board determined that he had recent
reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure
and relevant financial experience,in accordance with the Combined
of financial and other material information to the Board, to the
Code. In coming to this conclusion, the Board paid particular attention
public markets and to shareholders. This enabled the Committee to
to Mr de Swaan’s role as Chief Financial Officer of ABN AMRO, from
review the clarity and completeness of the disclosures in the
which he retired on 31st December 2005. The Board also considers
published annual financial statements, interim reports, quarterly
Mr de Swaan to be an Audit Committee Financial Expert as defined
and preliminary results announcements and other formal
by Sarbanes-Oxley.
announcements relating to financial performance prior to their
Sir Deryck Maughan is a Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis release by the Board.
Roberts &Co (KKR) and Chairman of KKR Asia. He was Chairman and
The Audit Committee, management, internal auditors and the full
CEO of Citigroup International and Vice Chairman of Citigroup Inc.
Board work together to ensure the quality of the company’s corporate
Prior to the creation of Citigroup, he was Chairman and Co-Chief
accounting and financial reporting. The Committee serves as the
Executive Officer of Salomon Smith Barney. He was also Chairman and
primary link between the Board and the external and internal auditors.
Chief Executive Officer of Salomon BrothersInc..
This facilitates the necessary independence from management and
Sir Ian Prosser was CFO and later CEO of Bassplcand is a member of
encourages the external and internal auditors to communicate freely
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
and regularly with the Committee. In 2006, the Committee met both
Sir Robert Wilson began his professional career as an economist. He collectively and separately with the external auditors and the Head of
is Chairman of BGGroup plc. He held senior management positions GIA, without members of management being present.
at Rio Tinto plc culminating in his appointment as Executive Chairman,
The Committee has primary responsibility for making a
from which he retired in 2003.
recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, reappointment
Dr DanielPodolsky was appointed to the Committee with effect from and removal of the external auditors by annually assessing the
1st January 2007. He is a world-renowned researcher who has qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external
advanced knowledge of underlying mechanisms of disease and new auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
therapies for gastrointestinal disorders. His background will enable
him to bring scientific expertise to the Committee’s deliberations.
The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who attends
the Committee’s meetings, and it has available to it financial resources
to take independent professional advice when considered necessary.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman, CEO,
CFO, General Counsel, Head of Global Internal Audit (GIA), Corporate
Compliance Officer and the external auditors.
GSK Annual Report 2006
61
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new
detail the relevant regulatory requirements relating to external auditors Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience and
and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their compliance taking account of their different backgrounds. This process includes
with the requirements. Where the external auditors provide non-audit meeting members of the CET and other senior executives and visiting
services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and particular operational facilities of the Group.
independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval
The Committee continued to keep under review the succession
by the Audit Committee for such services. These services may include
planning for senior executive positions, including that of the CEO.
audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services.
During 2006, the Committee agreed the process for selecting Dr
Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or categories of
Garnier’s successor as CEO of GSK.
services, and is subject to a specific budget. The external auditors and
management report regularly to the Committee regarding the extent When appointingnew Executive Directors, and CETmembers, the
of services provided in accordance with this pre-approval and the fees Committee considers theskills, knowledge and experience required
for the services performed. The Committee may also pre-approve for the particular executive position. The Committee will consider
additional services on a case-by-case basis. Expenditure on audit and potential external and internal candidates before recommending to
non-audit services is set outin Note 7 to the financial statements the Board to approve the new appointment.All new Directors offer
‘Operating profit’. themselves for election at the company’s next AGM. Their
appointments are announced publicly.
The guidelines set out in the company’s policy on engaging the
external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining The Committee recommended the appointment of Dr Podolsky tothe
that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a Corporate Responsibility Committee with effect from June 2006 and
suitable supplier of the non-audit services; adequate safeguards are then to the Audit Committeewith effect from 1st January 2007.
in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit are not The Committee also recommended the appointment of
compromised; and the fee levels relative to the annual audit fee are Sir Christopher Gent to the Remuneration Committee with effect
within the limits set by the Committee. from 1st January 2007.
The company also has well-established policies, including a Code of The Committee met four times during 2006 in full session.
Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility for the All members were present at the full meetings.
reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.No waivers to the
Remuneration Report
Code were made in 2006.
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages65to82.
The Committee met in full sessionfivetimes in 2006 andfivetimes
Corporate Responsibility Committee Report
on a quorate basis. Each full session was attended by all members
During the year the Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed
exceptMrde Swaan and Sir Deryck Maughan who were each unable
GSK’s activity in a number of responsibility areas including access to
to attendonemeeting.
medicines, community partnerships, reputation management, caring
Nominations Committee Report for the environment, ethical conduct, Direct To Consumer (DTC)
The Nominations Committee’s terms of reference include responsibility advertising and GSK’s commercial practices codes.
for proposing the appointment of Board and Committee members.
Membership of the Committee changed during the year. Following
During 2006, the Committee made recommendations to the Board
Dr Shapiro’s retirement from the Board in May 2006, Tom de Swaan
on the appointment ofDr Podolsky as a Non-ExecutiveDirectorand
and Dr Daniel Podolsky joined the Committee.
Scientific/Medical expert.
The Committee met five times during 2006. Each meeting was
In February 2006, the Committee recommended to the Board that Dr
attended by all Committee members except Sir Ian Prosser who was
Moncef Slaoui, would succeed Dr Yamada as Chairman, Research &
unable to attend one meeting, and Dr Shapiro who was unable to
Development,on his retirement from the company on 31st May 2006.
attend two meetings.
In February 2007, the Committee with the Board’s approval,
GSK’s Corporate Responsibility Report can be accessed on
appointed Dr Stephanie Burns as a Non-Executive Director.
www.gsk.com.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers
the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit The Combined Code
the Board most significantly for each appointment. Broad selection
Throughout 2006, the company complied with the Code provisions
criteria are used which focus on achieving a balance between the
of the Combined Code, except as follows:
representation of European, UK and US markets, and having
individuals with CEO experience and skills developed in various sectors •B.1.1–In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration,
and specialities. During 2006, particular focus was placed upon the Remuneration Committee should follow the provisions in
recruiting a Non-Executive with scientific and medical expertise. Schedule A to the Code. Item 6 of Schedule A states that, in general,
Professional search agencies are engaged specialising in the only basic salary should be pensionable. The company’s position is
recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors. Dossiers of explained in the Remuneration Report on pages65to82.
potentialNon-Executive appointees are provided to the Committee
and candidates are short-listed for interview after considering their
relevant qualifications.
GSK Annual Report 2006
62
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
US law and regulation Section 302:Corporate responsibility for financial reports
Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the
A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK
CFO to complete formal certifications, confirming that:
because the company’s shares are quoted on the New York Stock
•they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F
Exchange (NYSE) in the form of ADSs.
NYSE rules • based on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements or
omissions
In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK corporate
governance practices instead ofthoseapplied in the USA, provided •based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other
that the company explains any significant variations. This explanation financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the
ison the company’s website.NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of the
require the company to file annual and interim written affirmations dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and
concerning the Audit Committee and the company’s statement on Form 20-F
significant differences in corporate governance.
•they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure
Sarbanes-Oxley Actof 2002 controls and procedures that ensure that material information is
Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the USA, made known to them, have evaluated the effectiveness of these
Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Actof 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley). controls and procedures as at the year end, the results of such
Sarbanes-Oxley is a wide ranging piece of legislation concerned largely evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F
with financial reporting and corporate governance.
•they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control
As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), over financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance
GSK has established a Disclosure Committee. The Committee reports regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit Committee. It is chaired by the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers generally accepted accounting principles
from finance, legal, compliance, corporate communications and
•they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any
investor relations.
changes in internal controls over financial reporting during the
External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to attend period covered by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have
its meetings periodically. It has responsibility for considering the materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the
materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the company’s internal control over financial reporting
disclosure of that information. It has responsibility for the timely filing
•they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of
of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report
internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and
and Form 20-F. In 2006, the Committee met14times.
the Audit Committee all significant deficiencies and material
Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a statement weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over
as to whether a member of the company’s Audit Committee is an financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely
audit committee financial expert. For an explanation and details of the the company’s ability to record, process, summarise and report
basis for the Board’s judgement on this matter, refer to page61. financial information and any fraud (regardless of materiality)
Additional disclosure requirements arise under Section 302 and involving persons that have a significant role in the company’s
Section 404 in respect ofdisclosure controls and procedures,and internal control over financial reporting.
internal control over financial reporting.
The Group has carried outanevaluation under the supervision and
with the participationof the Group’s management, including the CEO
and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the
Group’s disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2006.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of
disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility of human
error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls and
procedures. Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and
procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their
control objectives.
The CEO and CFO expect to complete these certifications and report
their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure controls and
procedures on 2nd March 2007, following which the certificates will
be filed with the SEC as part of the Group’s Form 20-F.
GSK Annual Report 2006
63
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERCorporate governance
continued
Section 404: Management’s annual report on internal
control over financial reporting
In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of Sarbanes-
Oxley, the following report is provided by management in respect of
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the USSecurities Exchange Act
of 1934):
•Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes
in accordance with IFRS, including the reconciliations required under
USGAAP
•Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in
Internal Control – Integrated Frameworkissued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission
•There have been no changes in the Group’s internal control over
financial reporting during 2006 that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to affect materially, the Group’s internal control
over financial reporting
•Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, as at 31st December 2006,andits conclusion
will be filedas part ofthe Group’s Form 20-F
•PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which has audited the consolidated
financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st December
2006, has also audited management’s assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the
effectiveness of the Group’s internal control over financial reporting
under Auditing Standard No. 2 of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Their audit report will be filed with
the Group’s Form 20-F.
GSK Annual Report 2006
64
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERGSK Annual Report 2006
65
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Remuneration Report
The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policies operated
by GSK in respect of the Directors and Corporate Executive Team
(CET) members, together with disclosures on Directors’ remuneration
including those required by The Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 (the Regulations). In accordance with the
Regulations, the following sections of the Remuneration Report are
subject to audit: Annual remuneration; Non-Executive Directors’
remuneration; Share options; Incentive plans; performance criteria on
Performance Share Plans and share options; and Pensions for which
the opinion thereon is expressed on page166. The remaining sections
are not subject to auditnor are the pages referred to from within the
audited sections.
This Report is submitted to shareholders by the Board for approval at
the Annual General Meeting, as referenced in the notice of Annual
General Meeting.
Throughout the Remuneration Report the Executive Directors and
CETmembers are referred to as the ‘Executives’.
References to GlaxoSmithKline shares and ADSs mean, respectively,
Ordinary Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc of 25p and American
Depository Shares of GlaxoSmithKline plc. Each ADS represents two
GlaxoSmithKline shares.
Introduction 66
Remuneration policy 66
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 71
Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 72
Directors and Senior Management remuneration 72
Annual remuneration 73
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 74
Directors’ interests 76
Share options 76
Incentive plans 79
Pensions 81
Directors and Senior Management 82
Directors’ interests in contracts 82GSK Annual Report 2006
66
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Remuneration Report
continued
Introduction Two quorate meetings were held during the year to approve the
formal grant of share options and performance share awards in
The Remuneration Committee (or Committee) is responsible for
accordance with GSK remuneration policy.
making recommendations to the Board on the company’s
remuneration policy and, within the terms of the agreed policy, With the exception of Mr Bicknell (Company Secretary), no employees
determining the total individual remuneration packages of of the company were involved in the conduct of Committee meetings.
the Executives. Dr Garnier (CEO) and Mr Phelan (Senior Vice President, Human
Resources), were invited to attend part of some meetings of the
GSK’s remuneration policy was agreed after an extensive consultation
Committee as required.
process with shareholders and institutional bodies during the course
of 2003 and 2004. The appropriateness of the elements of the policy Deloitte &Touche LLP(Deloitte) have been appointed by the
is kept under review by the Committee. Committee to provide it with independent advice on executive
remuneration.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continues to have
regular dialogue with institutional investors regarding GSK’s Deloitte provided other consulting services to GSK during the year, but
remuneration policy. did not provide advice on executive remuneration matters other than
to the Committee.
GlaxoSmithKline’s remuneration policy is designed to establish a
framework for remuneration that is consistent with the company’s Towers Perrin provides market data and data analysis to
scale and scope of operations,meets the recruitment needs of the the Committee.
business and is closely aligned with UK shareholder guidelines. As at
31st December 2006, the company was the second largest Remuneration policy
pharmaceutical company in the world by revenue, with operationson
Principles
five continents with products sold in over140countries and withover
The remuneration policy for GlaxoSmithKline is designed to
50%of sales being generated in the USA.
secure outstanding executive talent, and to provide pay for
Remuneration Committee performanceand only for performance,within a transparent and
Sir Robert Wilson has been Chairman of the Committee since 17th robust governance structure.
May 2004. Sir Crispin Davis, Mr Culp and Dr Schmitz were members
The Committee determined thatGSK’s remuneration policy would
of the Committee throughout 2006. The Board deemed all of the
be based on the following key principles:
members of the Committee to be independent Non-Executive
Directors in accordance with the Combined Code. •the remuneration structure must support the needs of the business
in a very competitive market place
Following the change to the Combined Code made by the Financial
•UK shareholder guidelines will be followed to the maximum extent
Reporting Council, with effect from 1st November 2006, Sir
consistent with the needs of the business and the company would
Christopher Gent was appointed a member of the Committee with
maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders
effect from 1st January 2007.
•global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay comparator
The Committee met four times during 2006 with each member group
attending as follows: •performance conditions would be based on the measurable delivery
of strong financial performance and the delivery of superior returns
Number of meetings Number of meetings
held whilst a attended by to shareholders as compared with other pharmaceutical companies
Name Committee member Committee member •a high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity will be
Sir Robert Wilson 4 4 based on performance-related remuneration which will be delivered
Mr Larry Culp 4 3 over the medium to long term
Sir Crispin Davis 4 4 •remuneration would be determined using the projected value
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz 4 4 method (see ‘Benchmarking’ below)
•there would be one remuneration structure for Executive Directors
At these meetings, amongst other items, the Committee considered:
and the CETwith the same performance conditionsapplying equally
•the terms of service and remuneration levels for new Executive to their long-term incentive awards
appointments •no ex-gratia payments will be made
•the competitiveness of the company’s total reward package, •pay structures would be as simple as is consistent with the
including the level of annual and long-term incentive opportunity business needs.
•the effectiveness of the annual bonus plan, particularly for
Overall, the policy is intended to provide median total remuneration
R&D employees
for median performance, with the opportunity to earn upper quartile
•the structure and competitiveness of US pension arrangements.
total remuneration for exceptional performance. Poor performance
The policy aspects above were discussed by the Chairman and the will result in total remuneration significantly below the pay comparator
Chairman of the Committee at their annual meetings with group median.
institutional investors. In addition,each year following the AGM, the
This strong alignment with performance is demonstrably in the
Committee considers GSK’s remuneration policy in the context of
interests of shareholders and provides the Executives with
market and best practice.
unambiguous signals about the importance of delivering success to
the company’s shareholders.GSK Annual Report 2006
67
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Remuneration Report
continued
Commitment For performance in line with expectations, total remuneration is
The Committee will apply this policy on a consistent and transparent targeted at the median of the pay comparator group and the long-
basis. Any significant changes in the measures used to assess term incentive opportunity is set in a way which provides for
performance will be discussed with shareholders. In the use of positioning of total remuneration at the median of this group.
comparators for pay benchmarking, the Committee will use its
Valuation method
discretion to ensure that remuneration levels are reasonable, and if it
The projected value method is used to benchmark total remuneration.
believes that changes may cause concern amongst shareholders, the
This method projects the future value of the remuneration package
position will be discussed with shareholders prior to implementation.
under different performance scenarios. This method, taken together
Pay and performance comparators with an assessment of the pay comparator groups’ incentive policies
The following table sets out the companies used for pay and overseveral years, moderates the impact of market fluctuations in
performance comparison: the short term and strengthens the focus on performance.
Market Cap
31.12.06 Following the independent review in 2003, the Committee made a
Company Country £m
deliberate and conscious decision to use the projected value method
Abbott Laboratories USA 38,144 for pay benchmarking purposes as it enables a comparison of
Amgen USA 40,656 packages with different structural characteristics and provides an
AstraZeneca UK 42,036 insight into the value gearing of different equity instruments.
Bristol-Myers Squibb USA 26,410
Individual elements of remuneration
Eli Lilly USA 30,079
The balance between the fixed (base salary) and variable (annual
GlaxoSmithKline UK 77,362
bonus and long-term incentive) elements of remuneration changes
Johnson &Johnson USA 97,661
with performance. The chart below shows the anticipated normal
Merck USA 48,294
range of the mix between fixed and variable pay at different levels of
Novartis Switzerland 77,066
performance for the CEO and the typical case for the other Executive
Pfizer USA 95,281
Directors (ED). In some years, the ranges may be higher or lower,
Roche Holdings Switzerland 80,157
depending on the performance of the company and the individual.
Sanofi-Aventis France 64,166
Schering-Plough USA 17,882 CEO 5%-40% 10%-15% 45%-85%
ED 5%-50% 10%-20% 30%-80%
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company* Japan 31,182
100 %
Wyeth USA 34,987
* only included for performance comparison
The merger of Aventis and Sanofi-Synthelabo during 2004 reduced
the size of the comparator group to 13 companies and Base salary Annual bonus Long-term incentives
GlaxoSmithKline.During the year, the Committee reviewed thisgroup,
as part of its continuous appraisal of GSK’s remuneration Base salary
arrangements and as a result determined that Amgen should be Base salaries are set by reference to the median for the relevant
added to thegroup with effect from 1st January 2007. market. For Executives, this is the pharmaceutical pay comparator
group. Actual salary levels are reviewed annually andare influenced
Benchmarking
by an Executive’s experience, responsibility and market value. Any
For benchmarking purposes, total remuneration incorporates base
changes usually take effect from 1st April.
salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives. Notwithstanding this,
when setting pay, the Committee also has due regard to the The table below sets out base salary increases that took effect during
Executives’ pension arrangements. the year and those that will take effect in April 2007.
Base salary from Percentage Base salary from
The global pharmaceutical industry is used as the primary pay
1st April 2006 increase 1st April 2007
comparator for Executives, as it is the appropriate marketplace for
Dr Garnier $1,730,000 6% $1,834,000
the company’s most senior executive talent.
Mr Heslop* £400,000 12.5% £450,000
In the first instance, pay is benchmarked to publicly available Dr Slaoui* $600,000** 21% $725,000
remuneration data for these companies.To provide additional context
* These base salary increases reflect theCommittee’s assessment of performance in their
reference is also made to the Towers Perrin annual global
respective roles sinceappointment.
pharmaceutical pay survey for the Pharmaceutical Human Resources **Dr Slaoui was appointed to the Board with effect from 17th May 2006 and succeeded
Dr Yamada with effect from1st June2006.
Association (PHRA). To ensure that the global pharmaceutical industry
benchmark is subject to scrutiny and review, the Committee also
regularly considers pay data from other global businesses primarily in
theconsumer and the manufacturing sectors.
Prior to determining the annual long-term incentive opportunity, the
Committee considers a range of payout levels that may be achieved
based on different assumptions, such as share price growth,
performance levels etc.Remuneration Report
continued
Annual bonus The annual grant of LTIawards using more than one plan is consistent
All bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal review of annual with the practice of the pay comparator group and other leading UK
performance against stretching financial targets based on profit companies.LTIs for the CET are provided on the same basis as the
before interest and tax and are subject to detailed assessment of Executive Directors. The level of the annual LTI opportunity is
individual, business unit andGroup achievements against objectives. considered carefully year-on-year by the Committee in the context of
No bonus is payable if financial performance is less than 96% of the market practice and GSK’s policy on market positioning.Following this
target. The maximum bonus that Executives can earn based solely on review in 2006, the Committee determined it appropriate to make
corporate performance is approximately two-thirds of the maximum adjustments to the LTI awards for a number of Executives in line with
bonus opportunity. The individual performance against objectives can the policy.
increase or decrease the bonus level by a factor which can range from
To align the award cycles more closely with GSK’s financial year and
zero to 1.5. Bonuses are subject to upper limits which, for the
budgeting process, the Committee decided in 2005 to change the
Executives other than the CEO, range between 100% and 200% of
annual grant date forLTI awards for all eligible employees from the
base salary. The CEO’smaximum bonus opportunityis 200%.
fourth quarter of each year to the first quarter of each year. No
Following the review of the Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee compensation was provided for the change in the award cycle.
determined that bonus measures linked to the pipeline would be
Historically, the performance period for awards made in the fourth
introduced for R&D employees including Dr Slaoui. A robust
quarter started on 1st January following the date of award. For LTI
governance structure has been established to ensure that the bonus
awards made in 2006 and thereafter, the performance periodstarts
payable under the revised arrangements fairly reflects R&D
on 1st January of the year of award (i.e. 1st January 2006 for awards
productivity and performance as well as profit targets. The Committee
made in February 2006).
will review the bonus arrangements after the first year of operation.
Performance share awards and share options are delivered to US
The aim of the remuneration policy is to deliver annual cash in line with
resident executives in the form of ADSs. Awards are delivered in the
the median of the pay comparator group for on-target business
form of Ordinary Shares to executives resident in the UK and other
performance.
countries. All awards are made under plans which incorporate
In the case of the CEO, the bonus targets are set by the Board. In dilution limits consistent with the guidelines provided by the
setting the objectives for the CEO, the Board takes into account the Association of British Insurers, the National Association of Pension
strategies that have been developed by the company, and are set out Funds and other shareholder representative bodies. Current
on page2of the Annual Report. estimated dilution from existing awards under all GlaxoSmithKline
employee share schemes made since the merger is approximately
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the specific objectives set against
6.6%of the company’s share capital at 31st December 2006.
the strategic business drivers as set out on page 2 are kept
confidential. Following the end of the financial year, theBoard reviews a) Performance shares
the CEO’s performance generally and againsttheset objectives, and For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting is based
the Committee then determines the bonus payable. For the other on the company’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) relative to the
Executives, the CEO makes recommendations to the Committee performance comparator group (see page 67) over a three-year
regarding the performance level achieved against objectives. These measurement period. TSR was chosen as the most appropriate
recommendations are then considered by the Committee to comparative measure since it focuses on the return to shareholders,
determine the resultant bonus. is a well-understood and tested mechanism to measure performance
and allows comparison between companies operating in different
The objectives set for 2006 focused in particular on building the best
countries.
product pipeline in the industry and delivering commercial and
operational excellence. TSR is measured in Sterling over the performance period and
represents the change in the value of a share together with the value
The Committee took into account thecompany’s success in achieving
of reinvested dividends paid. In order to remove the impact of the
these objectives, as well as individual Executives’performance, when
varying tax treatments of dividends in different jurisdictions, all
determining the bonus awards for 2006.
dividends are reinvested gross.
Long-term incentives
The table below sets out the performance share awards made in
Executives are eligible for performance share awards and share
February 2007,for which full disclosure will be made in the 2007
options. The remuneration policy provides that annual long-term
RemunerationReport.
incentive (LTI) awards will normally be made up of a performance
Market price on
share award and a share option award. Executive Director Performanceshareaward date of grant
Dr Garnier 240,000ADSs $58.00
The Committee considers that performance shares provide a stronger
Mr Heslop 105,000shares £14.88
alignment to shareholderinterests, and therefore the remuneration
Dr Slaoui 69,000ADSs $58.00
policy places greater emphasis on the use of performance shares.LTI
awards are determined such that for on-target performance more than
If GSK is ranked at the medianof the performance comparator group,
half of the LTI rewardshould bederived from performance shares.
35% of the shares will vest. Any ranking below this point will result
in no shares vesting. Only if GSK is one of the top two companies will
all of the shares vest. When determining vesting levels, the Committee
has regard for the company’s underlying financial performance.
GSK Annual Report 2006
68
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
The table below sets out thevesting schedule for the 2007 awards The following key principles govern the use of EPS as a performance
based on a performance comparator group comprising 14companies measure:
excluding GSK.
•adjustments will only be considered for major items
Percentage of •adjustments will be for the judgement of the Committee
TSR rank award vesting*
•the purpose of the adjustments is to ensure that the performance
1 100%
measurement is fair and reasonable to both participants and
2 100%
shareholders
3 90%
•any discretion exercised by the Committee will be disclosed to
4 80%
shareholders in the Annual Report.
5 70%
6 60% The Committee will set out the basis of its decision if it considers it
7 50% appropriate to make any adjustment.
Median 35%
The table below sets out the share option awards made in February
Belowmedian 0%
2007,for which full disclosure will be made in the 2007 Remuneration
*TSR is measured on a pro-rata basis. Where GlaxoSmithKline’s performance Report.
falls between two of the comparators, the level of vesting will be determined
Executive Director Share option award Option price
by the actual relative level of TSR rather than simple ranking.
Dr Garnier 550,000ADSs $58.00
To provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments to
Mr Heslop 242,750shares £14.88
the Executives, notional dividends are reinvested and paid out in
Dr Slaoui 158,750ADSs $58.00
proportion to the vesting of the award. The receipt of dividends has
been incorporated into the benchmarking of award levels. In addition, Forshare option grants in 2007, vesting increases on a straight-line
performance shares earned by the Executives cannot be sold, except to basis for EPS performance between the hurdles set out in the
meet related tax liabilities, for a further two years following the end of following graph.
the vesting period. The Committee believes that this further aligns the
interests of the Executives with the long-term interests of shareholders.
The Performance Share Plan awards granted inDecember 2003, with
the performance period starting on 1st January 2004 and ending on
31st December 2006 did not vest for the Executives who were in office
in 2003 because GSK’s relative TSR performance was below the median
and as a result the awards lapsed.
The awards made in 2003 to other senior executives, including Dr Slaoui
and Mr Heslop, were dependent in part on TSR performance and in part
on EPS performance. Half of these awards vested as GSK’s EPS
performance reached the target level for full vesting.
The vesting tables for the performance share awards granted in 2003,
2004 and 2006 are given on page80.
b) Share options
Share options allow a holder to buy shares at a future date at the
share price prevailing at the time of grant. Share options are granted
to more than12,000managers at GlaxoSmithKline, including the
Executives. Thevesting of the share options granted to the Executives This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK
is linked to the achievement of compound annual EPS growth over shareholder guidelines and expectations and is demanding when
the performance period.EPS is measured at constant exchange rates compared with those operated by other global pharmaceutical
(CER) as it is GSK’s practice to measure performance on a CERbasis. companies. This is consistent with the policy of providing pay for
performance and only for performance.
The Committee considers that EPS is the key measure of the
performance of the business andisfully reflected through the business Performance is measured overperiods of three financial years.The
measures extended throughout the Group, ensuring organisational performance period startsin the year of awardwith the base year
alignment. being the preceding financial year. There is no performance retesting,
so if the performance condition is not met after the three-year period
When setting EPS targets, the Committee considers prior to each
the options will lapse.
grant, the company’s internal projections and analysts’ forecasts for
GlaxoSmithKline’s EPS performance, as well as analysts’ forecasts for The Share Optionsgranted in2003vested in full.
the pharmaceutical industry.
After extensive and careful consideration, the Committee agreed that
the annualised growth in EPS to achieve 100% vesting for the share
option awards granted inFebruary 2007would beRPI + 6%.
GSK Annual Report 2006
69
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
100%
RPI+3%
p.a.
egatnecrep
gnitseV
Exceptional
Superior
Baseline
Threshold
50%
0%
RPI+4% RPI+5% RPI+6%
p.a. p.a. p.a.
EPS TargetRemuneration Report
continued
Pensions Share ownership requirements
The Executives participate in GlaxoSmithKline senior executive pension To align the interests of executives with those of shareholders,
plans. The pension arrangements are structured in accordance with executives are required to maintain significant holdings of shares in
the plans operated for executives in the country in which the GlaxoSmithKline. These requirements are an important part of
executives are likely to retire. Details of individual arrangements for the aligning the interests of executives with shareholders. The CEO is
Executive Directors are set out on page81. In response to the new required to hold shares to the value of four times base salary. Other
pensions regime in the UK, the Committee carefully considered the Executive Directors are required to build a shareholding to the value
impact of the change in legislation anddecided the following: of three times base salary. Members of the CET are required to build
a shareholding to a value of two times base salary. The other top 700
•the company will continue to fulfil its obligations under existing
executives in the Group are required to build a shareholding to the
pension arrangements
value of one times base salary and are required to confirm this holding
•no compensation will be provided if participants are adversely
which is audited by KPMG on an annual basis.
affected by the new pension regime.
In order for shares to qualify for these share ownership requirements
The GSK pension policy for executives in the UK is:
they must be held personally by the Executive or their spouse (except
•newly employedexecutivesbenefit from a company contribution of where the spouse is also employed by GSK andis also subject to these
15%of base pay under the defined contribution plan together with requirements) or minor children or have been earned but deferred
the opportunity to receive up to a further 4% in matched under one of the share programmes operated by the company.
contributions Unexercised share options are not included in this calculation.
•legacy final salary plans which provide for two-thirds of final salary
As at 31st December 2006, Dr Garnier’s holding was497,545ADSs,
at age 60 were grandfathered for existing employees and no new
Dr Slaoui’s was114ADSs and42,815ordinary sharesand Mr Heslop’s
entrants have been allowed
was28,554ordinary shares. Dr Garnier’sholding was in excess of the
•for capped employees, benefits in excess of the cap are currently all
share ownership requirements. Mr Heslop has until December 2008
provided through unfunded arrangements
and Dr Slaoui has until December 2009 to build their holdings to the
•under the legacy final salary plans, actuarial reduction factors apply
value of three times base salary.
where a participant leaves employmentofhis own accord before
the age of 60,effectively spreading the value of the pension earned Executives are required to continue to satisfy these shareholding
over a longer life expectancy. If employment is terminated by the requirements for a minimum of twelve months following retirement
company (e.g. redundancy) the reduction factors will not apply. from the company. Dr Yamada and Mr Coombe, who retired on
31st May 2006 and 31st March 2005 respectively, both met
In the USA, GSK operates a US cash balance plan which provides for
this requirement.
an annual contribution and interest on the sum accumulated in the
cash balance plan but with no contractual promise to provide specific Other remuneration elements
levels of retirement income. The Executives participate in various legacy Glaxo Wellcome and
SmithKline Beecham all-employee share plans in either the UK or the
In light of market data, an extensive review of the pension
USA and in the GlaxoSmithKline plans that replaced them.
arrangements for US executives was undertaken by the Committee
during 2006. This review took account of the cost implications for the The Sharesave plan and the ShareReward plan are UK HM Revenue
company as well as the competitiveness of the current arrangements. andCustoms approved plans open to all UK employees on the same
The conclusion was that the pension offered by GSK in the USA had terms. Mr Heslop is a member of the Sharesave plan, into which he
fallen significantly behind the market at the senior level. contributes£250 a month. This provides him with the option to buy
shares at the end of the three-year savings period in line with the
In view of this and taking account of concerns raised by both
opportunity available to all UK employees.
institutions and investors in relation to the basis on which
contributions were previously determined under the US cash balance Mr Heslop also contributes£125 per monthto buy shares under the
plan, the Committee approved the introduction of a new US ShareReward plan. The company matches the number of shares
executive cash balance plan. This change took effectfrom 1st January bought each month.
2006forsenior US executives with the exception of the CEO, whose
The Executives also receive other benefits including healthcare
provisions were grandfathered in light of hisanticipatedretirement
(medical and dental), personal financial advice and life assurance. The
in 2008. Under this plan contributions are determined solely by
cash value of the benefits received by the Executive Directors in 2006
reference to the executive’s base salary. Contribution rates under the
is shown on page73.
plan range from 15% to 38% of base salary. For capped employees
in the USA benefits above the cap are provided by an unfunded non-
qualified plan.
GSK Annual Report 2006
70
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Executive Director terms, conditions and In addition, Dr Garnier is entitled to receive one year’s worth of
remuneration pension contributions on termination.
Executive Director contracts The following table sets out the details of the ExecutiveDirectors'
The policy set out below provides the framework for contracts for service contracts:
Executive Directors appointed since 2003 and going forward. Current Directors Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
Dr Garnier 03.03.04 01.01.04 31.05.08
Aspect Policy Mr Heslop 16.03.05 01.04.05 31.01.14
Notice period on 12 calendar months Dr Slaoui 16.05.06 01.06.06 01.08.19
termination by the
employing company Former Directors Date of contract Effective date Expiry date
or executive Dr Yamada* 27.07.04 01.01.04 30.06.07
Termination payment – 1x annual salary and Mr Coombe 03.03.04 01.01.04 31.03.05
1x annual ’on-target’ bonus 1 * Dr Yamada retired from the Board and the company on 31st May 2006.
– No mitigation required 2
No termination payments will be made in respect of any part of a
Benefits Governed by benefits policy, notice period extending beyond the contract expiry dates.
including:
Individual pension arrangements
– healthcare (medical and dental)
– personal financial advice For individual pension arrangements for the Executive Directors refer
– life assurance contributions to page81.
Vesting of long-term Rules of relevant equity incentive Other entitlements
incentives plan3 In addition to the contractual provisions outlined above, in the event
Pension Based on existing arrangements and thatExecutive Directors’service agreements are terminated by their
terms of the relevant pension plan employing company, the following would apply:
Non-compete clause 12 months from termination •in the case of outstanding awards under the GlaxoSmithKline
notice date 2 Annual Investment Plan, provided that their agreement is terminated
other than for cause, any deferred amount, and any income and
1 Dr Garnier’s target bonus is 100% of salary,Dr Slaoui’s is 85% of salary and Mr Heslop’s
gains, are automatically distributed as soon as administratively
is 75% of salary. When reviewing the level of severance payments, the Committee
considered investor and DTI guidance. However, it determined that in line with practicable after termination. If they resign, retire or the termination
competitive practice it is appropriate to provide for the payment of salary and target is for cause, then any deferred amount is not distributed until the
bonus on termination. end of the minimum three-year deferral period
2 The imposition of a 12-month non-compete period on the Executives is considered
• in line with the policy applicable to US senior executives, Dr Garnier
vitally important by the company in order to protect the Group’s intellectual property.
In light of the non-compete clause and competitor practice, the Committee believes and Dr Yamada are entitled to receive continuing medical and dental
that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in the contracts. insurance. Dr Slaoui is a member of the same plan and may become
3 As approved by shareholders of GlaxoSmithKline, Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing medical and dental
Beecham, as appropriate. cover into retirement
In 2003, Dr Garnier agreed to changes to his previous contractual •following the merger, those participants in the legacy share option
terms without compensation to come broadly in line with the new schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options
contractual framework, including the reduction of contractual notice over GlaxoSmithKline shares will receive an additional cash benefit
period from 24 to 12 calendar months. However, in order to honour equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option. This
certain aspects of his ‘old’ contractual terms, there are a number of additional benefit is triggered when the new option is exercised or
individual features which were retained. lapses. To qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants had
These include the entitlement to reimbursement of excise tax on to retain their options until at least the second anniversary of the
change of control related paymentsand, life insurance benefit funded effective date of the merger.
by the company to age 65. Outside appointments for Executive Directors
In relation to LTI awards, thesearesubject to performance testing, and Any outside appointments must be approved by the Chairman on
any options or performance share awards made within 12 monthsof behalf of the Board. It is the company’s policy that remuneration
the termination notice date will lapse. However, on termination by the earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual
company (other than for cause), on retirement or on resignation for Executive Director.
‘good reason’(i.e. resignation due to not being elected or retained as
a director of the company or any merged company, or as a result of
a change of control provided that such resignation occurs on or within
30 days of the first anniversary of the change in control)options
remain exercisable for the full option term.
GSK Annual Report 2006
71
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Non-Executive Director terms, conditionsand fees Chairman
Sir Christopher Gent’s letter of appointment to the Board was dated
Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline do not have service
26th May 2004, under which it was agreed that he serve the company
contracts but instead have letters of appointmentunder which it is
as Deputy Chairman until 31st December 2004 and from 1st January
agreed that they serve the company as a Non-Executive Director until
2005 as Chairman until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting
the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting following the third
following the third anniversary of his appointment. This may be
anniversary of their appointment. In each case this can be extended
extended for a further term of three years by mutual agreement.In
for a further term of three years by mutual agreement. No Directors
2006, he received £400,000 per annum plus an allocation of
serve a term longer than three years without offering themselves for
GlaxoSmithKline shares to the value of £100,000 per annum as
re-election by the shareholders. The company aims to provide Non-
Chairman.Following a review, theBoard agreed to increase his fees
Executive Directors with fees that are competitive with other
with effect from 1st January 2007,to £460,000per annum plus an
companies of equivalent size and complexity.
allocation of GlaxoSmithKline shares to the value of £115,000per
The following table shows the date of the initial letter of appointment annum.
of each Non-Executive Director:
TSRperformance graph
Non-Executive Date of letter The following graph sets out the performance of the company relative
Director of appointment
to the FTSE 100Index of which the company is a constituent and to
Dr SBurns 12.02.07
the performance comparator group from 1st January 2002to 31st
MrL Culp 09.06.03
December 2006. The graph has been prepared in accordance with the
Sir Crispin Davis 09.06.03
Regulations and is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards
Sir Deryck Maughan 26.05.04
granted under any of the company’s incentive plans.
Dr D Podolsky 03.07.06
Sir Ian Prosser 19.06.00
Dr R Schmitz 19.06.00
Mr T de Swaan 21.12.05
Sir Robert Wilson 09.06.03
The fee structure for the Non-Executive Directors is as follows:
Per annum
Standard annual cash retainer fee £60,000
Supplemental fees
Senior Independent Director, the Audit Committee
Chairman and Scientific/Medical Experts £30,000
Chairmen of the Remuneration and
Corporate Responsibility Committees £20,000
Non-Executive Director undertaking
intercontinental travel to meetings £5,000 per meeting
Exchange rate
Fees that are paid in USdollars are converted at a rate of
£1/US$1.8162, being the exchange rate that applied on 29th July
2004 when the new fee arrangements were approved by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors’ share allocation plan Directors and Senior Management remuneration
To enhance the link between Directors and shareholders
GlaxoSmithKline requires Non-Executive Directors to receive a The following tables set out for the Directors of GlaxoSmithKline plc
significant part of their fees in the form of shares. At least 25% of the the remuneration earned in 2006, their interests in shares of
Non-Executive Directors’ total fees, excluding the Chairman, are paid GlaxoSmithKline plc, their interests in share options and incentive
in the form of shares or ADSs and allocated to a share account. The plans and their pension benefits. The members of the CET and the
Non-Executive Directors may also take the opportunity to invest part Company Secretary, known as the Senior Management, also
or all of the balance of their fees into the same share account. participate in the same remuneration plans as the Executive Directors
and the aggregate remuneration and interests of the Directors and
The shares or ADSs which are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive Senior Management are also provided.
Directors and allocated to their interest accounts are included within
the Directors’ interests tables on page76. The accumulated balance
of these shares or ADSs, together with notional dividends subsequently
reinvested, are not paid out to the Non-Executive Directors until
retirement. Upon retirement, the Non-Executive Directors will receive
either the shares or ADSs or a cash amount equal to the value of the
shares or ADSs at the date of retirement.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation if their
appointment is terminated.
GSK Annual Report 2006
72
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
150
125
100
75
50
31/12/01 31/12/02 31/12/03 31/12/04 31/12/05 31/12/06
GlaxoSmithKline Total Return Index
GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index
FTSE 100 Total Return IndexRemuneration Report
continued
Annual remuneration
2006 2005
Total Total
Fees and Other Annual annual Fees and Other Annual Deferred annual
salary benefits bonus remuneration salary benefits bonus* bonus remuneration
Footnote 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier a,b,c $1,700 $633 $3,080 $5,413 $1,582 $641 $2,812 $1,556 $6,591
Dr M Slaoui $370 $317 $497 $1,184 – – – – –
Mr J Heslop £380 £31 £437 £848 £240 £9 £280 – £529
Non-Executive Directors
Sir Crispin Davis £70 – – £70 £70 – – – £70
Sir Christopher Gent £500 £1 – £501 £500 – – – £500
Sir Ian Prosser £95 – – £95 £100 – – – £100
Dr R Schmitz £90 – – £90 £95 – – – £95
Mr T de Swaan £70 – – £70 – – – – –
Sir Robert Wilson £90 – – £90 £90 – – – £90
Mr L Culp $136 – – $136 $136 – – – $136
Sir Deryck Maughan $136 – – $136 $146 – – – $146
Dr D Podolsky $100 – – $100 – – – – –
Former Directors
Mr J Coombe c,d – £22 – £22 £139 £32 – – £171
Dr M Barzach e £57 – – £57 £58 – – – £58
Sir Roger Hurn – – – – – £5 – – £5
Sir Peter Job – – – – – £5 – – £5
Sir Richard Sykes – £1 – £1 – £1 – – £1
Dr T Yamada a,b,c $428 $493 $281 $1,202 $763 $739 $1,110 $698 $3,310
Dr L Shapiro f $144 $11 – $155 $230 – – – $230
Total Remuneration £2,982 £841 £2,523 £6,346 £2,862 £810 £2,436 £1,238 £7,346
Analysed as:
Executive Directors £1,499 £545 £2,371 £4,415 £1,109 £361 £1,826 £855 £4,151
Non-Executive Directors £1,116 £1 – £1,117 £1,010 – – – £1,010
Former Directors £367 £295 £152 £814 £743 £449 £610 £383 £2,185
Total Remuneration £2,982 £841 £2,523 £6,346 £2,862 £810 £2,436 £1,238 £7,346
Remuneration for Directors on the US Payroll is reported in Dollars. Dollar amountsare included in the totals based on conversion to Sterling at the average exchangerates for each year.
a) Following the merger,and in order to encourage employees to convert their non-savings related options, held over GlaxoWellcome or SmithKline Beecham shares or ADSs,
for options over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, employees were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option. This additional
benefit, known as the Exchange Offer Incentive (EOI), is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value. To qualify for this additional cash benefit,
participants had to retain these options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger. During the year, Dr Garnier received $192,639(2005 –
$174,472) and Dr Yamada received $60,204(2005 – $167,405) relating to options exercised (page78).
b) Dr Garnier is a Non-Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation, in respect of which in 2006 he received $230,000in the form of deferred stock units. In2005,
Dr Garnier received$110,000in the form of deferred stock units and3,000stock options with a grant price of $101.05.Dr Yamadaisa member of the Advisory Board of
Quaker BioVentures, Inc., for which, in the period from 1st January 2006 until his retirement from GlaxoSmithKline on 31st May 2006,he received $5,000(2005 – $12,000).
c) In 2001, following the merger, Dr Garnier, Mr Coombe and Dr Yamada were awarded a one-off special deferred bonus as members of the CET. Each was awarded an amount
equivalent to his annual salary on 31st December 2001 and this was notionally invested in GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs on 15th February 2002 and deferred for three
years. The deferred bonus vested on 15th February 2005 and the amounts paid were equivalent to the then value of GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs notionally acquired in
February 2002 plus dividends reinvested over the period. Dr Garnier received $1,556,324, and Dr Yamada received $697,663. Mr Coombe waived his deferred bonus of
£383,924. The company made a contribution to the pension plan in 2005 of £383,924 to enhance his pension entitlements. This amount is not included in the table above.
d) Mr Coombe waived his prorated 2005 bonus of £106,870. The company madecontributionsto the pension plan in 2005 of £106,870to enhance his pension entitlements.
These amounts are not included within fees and salary above.
e) Dr Barzach received fees of € 84,244 (2005 – € 84,244) from GlaxoSmithKline France for healthcare consultancy provided. These are included within fees and salary above.
f) Although Dr Shapiro retired from the Board on 17th May 2006 she continuesto bea member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Boardfor which during 2006, she received
fees of $85,000(2005 – $85,000), of which $30,000(2005 – $30,000) was in the form of ADSs. These are included within fees and salary above.
None of the above Directors received expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as required by the Regulations.
Dr S Burns joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on12th February2007, therefore no fees were paid to her in 2006.
* In light of the low take up levels and in response to concerns expressed by institutional investors in relation to the 1 for 10 non-performance related match provided under the
Annual InvestmentPlan (AIP), the Committee decided in 2005 to discontinue the AIP. This was open to approximately 700 senior executives who all participated on the same
terms. The last deferral elections under the AIP were made in respect to bonuses earned during 2005. Although the AIP has now closed, GSK will continue to manage the
ongoing administration of subsisting awards as required by the AIP rules.
GSK Annual Report 2006
73
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
GSK Annual Report 2006
74
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration
2006 2005
Total Cash Shares/ADSs Total Cash Shares/ADSs
Fees 000 000 000 000 000 000
Current Non-Executive Directors
Sir Crispin Davis £70 – £70 £70 – £70
Sir Christopher Gent £500 £400 £100 £500 £400 £100
Sir Ian Prosser £95 £48 £47 £100 £50 £50
Dr R Schmitz £90 £54 £36 £95 £57 £38
Mr T de Swaan £70 £53 £17 – – –
Sir Robert Wilson £90 £68 £22 £90 £68 £22
Mr LCulp $136 – $136 $136 – $136
Sir Deryck Maughan $136 – $136 $146 – $146
Dr D Podolsky $100 $50 $50 – – –
Former Non-Executive Directors
Dr L Shapiro $59 $52 $7 $145 $109 $36
Total Remuneration £1,148 £678 £470 £1,090 £635 £455
The table above sets out the remuneration received as Non-Executive Directors of GlaxoSmithKline. Accordingly, it does not include Dr Shapiro’s
fees received as a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board.
From the formation of GSK,the Non-Executive Directorshave been required to take at least a part of their total fees in the form of shares
allocated to a share account. At least 25% of Non-Executive Directors fees, except those of the Chairman(see page72for further details)must
be taken under the fee allocation arrangement. Non-Executive Directors can then elect to receive either all or part of the remaining cash
payment in the form of further shares or ADSs. The total value of these shares and ADSs as at the date of award, together with the cash payment,
forms their total fees, which are included within the Annual remuneration table under ‘Fees and salary’. The table above sets out the value of
their fees received in the form of cash and shares and ADSs.Remuneration Report
continued
The table below sets out the accumulated number of shares and ADSs held by each Non-Executive Director in relation to their fees received
as Board members as at 31st December 2006, together with the movements in their account over the year.
Number of shares and ADSs
Dividends
Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements Footnote At 31.12.05 Elected reinvested Paid out At 31.12.06
Current Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Sir Crispin Davis 12,758 4,839 460 – 18,057
Sir Christopher Gent 10,386 6,952 383 – 17,721
Sir Ian Prosser 16,590 3,295 580 – 20,465
Dr R Schmitz 13,898 2,477 487 – 16,862
Mr T de Swaan – 1,226 7 – 1,233
Sir Robert Wilson 3,047 1,557 112 – 4,716
ADSs
Mr LCulp 6,227 2,552 200 – 8,979
Sir Deryck Maughan 4,242 2,552 139 – 6,933
Dr D Podolsky – 942 – – 942
Former Non-Executive Directors
Shares
Dr L Shapiro a 1,723 – 40 – 1,763
Sir Roger Hurn b 10,284 – – (10,284) –
ADSs
Dr L Shapiro a 3,426 130 73 – 3,629
Dividends are notionally reinvested at the end of the financial year in which payment is made.
The table below sets out the settlement of former Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements on their leaving the Board:
Value of Value of
awards on awards on Payments
Date of leaving allocation leaving in 2006
Current year
Dr L Shapiro a,c 17.05.06 $196,673 $259,163 $259,163
Prior years
Sir Roger Hurn b 05.06.03 – – £151,948
a)Dr Shapiro’s closing balance appears as at 17th May 2006, the date when she left the Board.All share arrangements with Dr Shapiro were settled in September
2006 with a lump sum cash payment.
b) On leaving the Board, Sir Roger Hurn elected to receive the settlement of his Non-Executive Directors’share arrangements in 40 quarterly cash payments. In July
2006, Sir Roger agreed to receive the outstanding balance of this plan as a lump sum.
c)The change in value of awards between allocation and leaving is attributable to dividends re-invested and the change in share price between the dates of award
and the dates of leaving.
GSK Annual Report 2006
75
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Directors’ interests
The following beneficial interests of the Directors of the company are shown in the register maintained by the company in accordance with
the Companies Act 1985:
Shares ADSs
23rdFebruary 31st December 1st January 23rdFebruary 31st December 1st January
Footnote 2007 2006 2006 2007 2006 2006
Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier a – – – 251,124 250,528 225,896
Dr M Slaoui b 39,659 36,955 38,821 156 114 –
Mr J Heslop c 41,331 28,554 18,885 – – –
Non-Executive Directors
Dr S Burns d 44 – – 95 – –
Mr L Culp e – – – 8,979 8,979 6,227
Sir Crispin Davis e 23,224 23,224 17,925 – – –
Sir Christopher Gent e 17,721 17,721 10,386 – – –
Sir Deryck Maughan e – – – 6,933 6,933 4,242
Dr D Podolsky e,f – – – 942 942 –
Sir Ian Prosser e 21,375 21,375 17,500 – – –
Dr R Schmitz e 22,542 22,542 13,898 – – 2,840
Mr T de Swaan e 1,233 1,233 – – – –
Sir Robert Wilson e 5,844 5,844 4,175 – – –
Former Directors
Dr T Yamada a,g – – – – 73,912 67,512
Dr L Shapiro e,g – 1,763 1,723 – 7,900 7,401
One GlaxoSmithKline ADS represents two GlaxoSmithKline shares.
a)Includes the equivalent number of ADSs purchased in the GlaxoSmithKline Stock Fund within the 401(k) plan.
b)In the case of Dr Slaoui, the opening number of shares is shown as at 17th May 2006.
c)Includes shares purchased through the GlaxoSmithKline ShareReward Plan for Mr Heslop totalling 1,250 at 31st December 2006 (31st December 2005 – 1,013)
and1,295shares at 23rd February2007.
d)Dr Burns joined the Board on12th February 2007.
e)Includes shares and ADSs received as part or all of their fees as described under Non-Executive Directors’ share arrangements on page72. Dividends received on
these shares and ADSs were converted to shares and ADSs as at 31st December 2006. These are also included in the Directors’ interests above.
f) Dr Podolsky joined the Board on 1st July 2006 and did not own any shares in GlaxoSmithKline at that date.
g)Dr Yamada left the Board on 31st May 2006 and Dr Shapiro left the Board on 17th May 2006. Therefore their closing interests are recorded in the table above at
these dates and are not included at 23rd February 2007.
The interests of the above-mentioned Directors at23rdFebruary 2007 reflect the change between year-end and that date.
Share options
Options –Shares Granted
Footnote At 31.12.05 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.06
Dr M Slaoui a,b 170,712 – – – – – 170,712
Mr JHeslop a 365,504 21.02.06 21.02.09 – 20.02.16 £14.68 231,000 54,000 542,504
Options –ADSs Granted
At 31.12.05 Date of grant Exercise period Grant price Number Exercised At 31.12.06
Dr JPGarnier a 3,765,594 21.02.06 21.02.09 – 20.02.16 $51.02 500,000 68,411 4,197,183
Dr TYamada c 1,148,490 – – – – 21,380 1,127,110
a) As part of the main option grant that occurred on 20th February 2007, with a vesting period of 20th February 2007 to 20th February 2010, Dr Garnier and
Dr Slaoui were awarded 550,000 and 162,320 ADS options respectively with a grant price of $58.00. As part of the same grant Mr Heslop was awarded 242,750
share options with a grant price of £14.88.
b) DrSlaouijoined the Boardon 17th May 2006. These details cover the period from 17th May 2006 to 31st December 2006and include the interests of his wife
who is also an employee of GSK.
c)Dr Yamada retired on 31st May 2006and as such was excluded from the grant of options on 21st February 2006, as he retired from the company within 12 months
of the date of the grant. These details cover the period from 1st January 2006 to 31st May 2006.Dr Yamada’s unvested awardswill vest at the end of the relevant
performance period, subject to performance.
GSK Annual Report 2006
76
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
For those options outstanding at 31st December 2006, the earliest and latest vesting and lapse dates for those above and below the market
price for a GlaxoSmithKline share at the year end are given in the table below.
Vesting date Lapse date
Weighted average
Dr JPGarnier grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options $59.46 1,133,448 23.11.01 24.11.02 22.11.08 23.11.09
Below market price at year end: vested options $45.18 2,103,735 24.03.00 15.12.06 23.03.07 14.12.13
unvested options $47.53 960,000 02.12.07 21.02.09 01.12.14 20.02.16
Total ADS options as at 31st December 2006 $49.57 4,197,183
Vesting date Lapse date
Weighted average
Dr M Slaoui grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options £18.56 15,522 24.11.02 24.11.02 23.11.09 23.11.09
unvested options £14.68 73,340 21.02.09 21.02.09 20.02.16 20.02.16
Below market price at year end: vested options £11.79 52,800 03.12.05 03.12.05 02.10.12 02.10.12
unvested options £11.23 29,050 02.12.07 02.12.07 01.12.14 01.12.14
Totalshareoptions as at 31st December 2006 £13.55 170,712
This includes those share options held byDr Slaoui’s wife, who is also an employee of GSK.
Vesting date Lapse date
Weighted average
Mr JHeslop grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options £17.04 194,438 31.07.01 28.11.04 30.07.08 27.11.11
unvested options £14.68 231,000 21.02.09 21.02.09 21.02.16 21.02.16
Below market price at year end: vested options £12.70 54,000 28.10.06 28.10.06 26.10.13 26.10.13
unvested options £11.23 63,066 03.12.07 27.10.08 01.12.14 26.10.15
Total share options as at 31st December 2006 £14.93 542,504
Vesting date Lapse date
Weighted average
Dr TYamada grant price Number earliest latest earliest latest
Above market price (“underwater”) at year end: vested options $60.91 320,519 15.03.02 24.11.02 31.05.08 31.05.08
Below market price at year end: vested options $47.02 530,591 13.11.00 03.12.05 12.11.07 31.05.08
unvested options $44.15 276,000 01.06.06 01.06.06 31.05.08 01.12.08
Total ADS options as at 31stMay2006 $50.27 1,127,110
The lapse dates for Dr Yamada’s options have been modified to reflect his retirement in 2006.
GSK Annual Report 2006
77
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
GSK grants share options to Executive Directors and Senior Managers on an annual basis. The Directors hold these options under the various
share option plans referred to in Note40to the financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’. None of the other Directors had an interest
in any option over the company’s shares.
The table below sets out, forgrants of share optionsin respect of the last four financial years, the grant year, theperformance period, whether
or not the options have vested, and the performance targets.
Performance target
Annualised growth Percentage of
Grant Performance period Vesting status in EPS award vesting
November 2002 01.01.03 - 31.12.05 Vested > RPI + 5% 100%
RPI+ 4% 75%
RPI + 3% 50%
< RPI+ 3% 0%
December 2003 01.01.04 - 31.12.06 Vested >RPI+ 5% 100%
RPI+ 4% 75%
RPI+ 3% 50%
< RPI+ 3% 0%
December 2004 01.01.05 - 31.12.07 Not yet vested > RPI+ 5% 100%
RPI+ 4% 75%
RPI+ 3% 50%
< RPI+ 3% 0%
February 2006 01.01.06 - 31.12.08 Not yet vested > RPI+ 6% 100%
RPI+ 5% 83%
RPI+ 4% 67%
RPI+ 3% 50%
< RPI+ 3% 0%
Following the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on 1st January 2005, the Committee considered what EPS
measurement basis, either IFRSor UKGAAP, should be used for shareawards having performance periods that straddled the IFRS conversion
data. The Committee determined that UKGAAP would be used for the 2002 grant (performance period 1st January 2003 to 31st December
2005) as two out of the three years would be reported under UKGAAP, and thereafter IFRS would apply.
2006 2005
Grant Market
Options exercised Date Number price price Gain Gain
Dr JPGarnier 30.10.06 68,411 $28.16 $53.12 $1,707,351 $2,029,561
Mr J Heslop 27.04.06 54,000 £11.79 £15.41 £195,480 £5,665
Dr T Yamada 03.05.06 21,380 $28.16 $56.77 $611,712 $2,083,931
Aggregate gain on options exercised £1,449,028 £2,265,825
Dr Slaoui did not exercise any options between 17thMay 2006 and 31st December 2006.
At the average exchange rate for the year, the above gain made by Dr Garnier amounted to £922,893. An EOI benefit of $192,639(£104,129)
was paid to Dr Garnier on exercise of these options. This benefit has been included in the table on page73.
On 8th February 2007, Dr Garnier exercised a further 68,411 options with agrantprice of $32.09 (market price on date of exercise was $55.81)
giving rise to a gain of $1,622,709(£877,140). Dr Garnier also received$219,531(£118,665)in respect of the EOIbenefit arising on the exercise
of these options.
At the average rate for the year, the above gain made by Dr Yamada amounted to £330,655. An EOI benefit of $60,204(£32,543) was paid
to Dr Yamada on the exercise of these options. This benefit has been included in the table on page73.
The highest and lowest closing prices during the year ended 31st December 2006 for GlaxoSmithKline shares were £15.77and £13.26,
respectively. The highest and lowest prices for GlaxoSmithKline ADSs during the year ended 31st December 2006 were $58.38and $50.15,
respectively. The market price for a GlaxoSmithKline share on 31st December 2006 was £13.44(31st December 2005 – £14.69) and for a
GlaxoSmithKline ADS was $52.69(31st December 2005 – $50.48). The prices on23rdFebruary 2007 were £14.50per GlaxoSmithKline share
and $56.92per GlaxoSmithKline ADS.
GSK Annual Report 2006
78
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Incentive plans
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards
Dr JP Garnier – ADSs Market Additional
Number price on Vested & deferred ADS by Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 31.12.05 2006 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.06 in 2007
01.01.03 – 31.12.05 70,000 – $37.25 35,000 $51.35 $1,797,247 35,000 – – –
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 212,763 – $44.57 – – – – 6,629 219,392 –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 204,881 – $43.73 – – – – 6,383 211,264 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 – 220,000 $51.02 – – – – 3,186 223,186 –
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 – – $58.00 – – – – – – 240,000
Dr Garnier held73,323 deferredPSPs at year-end.The increase in this balanceof36,648relates to dividends reinvestedduring the year of
1,648 and a further 35,000 PSPs which vested during the year that Dr Garnier elected to defer. The total value of the awards vesting during
2006 was $1,797,247.
Dr MSlaoui – Shares and ADSs Market Additional
Number price on Vested & exercised shares by Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 17.05.06 2006 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.06 in 2007
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 5,000 – £12.70 – – – – – 5,000 –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 13,559 – £11.63 – – – – 201 13,760 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 28,720 – £14.68 – – – – 427 29,147 –
Market Additional
Number price on Vested & exercised ADSby Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 31.12.05 2006 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.06 in 2007
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 – – $58.00 – – – – – – 70,570
This includes those PSPs held byDr Slaoui’s wife, who is also an employee of GSK.
Mr JHeslop – Shares Market Additional
Number price on Vested & exercised shares by Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 31.12.05 2006 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.12.06 in 2007
01.01.03 – 31.12.05 5,000 – £11.79 2,500 £14.65 £36,625 2,500 – – –
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 5,000 – £12.70 – – – – – 5,000 –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 15,885 – £11.63 – – – – 501 16,386 –
01.01.06 – 31.12.08 – 100,000 £14.68 – – – – 1,487 101,487 –
01.01.07 – 31.12.09 – – £14.88 – – – – – – 105,000
Dr TYamada – ADSs Market Additional
Number price on Vested & exercised ADS by Number
Unvested granted in date of Market dividends Unvested granted
Performance period at 31.12.05 2006 grant Number price Gain Lapsed reinvested at 31.05.06* in 2007
01.01.03 – 31.12.05 20,000 – $37.25 10,000 $51.35 $513,500 10,000 – – –
01.01.04 – 31.12.06 63,829 – $44.57 – – – – 1,049 64,878 –
01.01.05 – 31.12.07 61,464 – $43.73 – – – – 1,010 62,474 –
*Dr Yamada’s unvested awardswill vest at the end of the relevant performance period, subject to performance.
At the average exchange rate for the year, the above gains by Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada amounted to £971,485and £277,567respectively.
The total gain on vesting of PSP awards made by Executive Directors is £1,285,677 (2005 – £1,431,804).The PSP is a medium-term incentive
scheme introduced during 2001.
Under the terms of the PSP the number of shares actually vesting is determined following the end of the relevant three-year measurement
period and is dependent on GSK’s performance during that period as described on pages68and69. The share awards were previously granted
annually in November or Decemberprior to the start of the performance period, but since the 2006grant they are granted in February of the
first year of performance period.
The measurement period commences on1st January ending after three years on 31st December. For awards with a performance period
commencing on 1st January 2005 and subsequent awards, dividends are reinvested on the PSPs awarded to members of the CET. Dividends
are reinvested in the quarter in which payment is made. Under the terms of the PSP, US participants may defer receipt of all or part of their
vested awards.
ThePSPawards granted in December 2003, with the performance period starting on 1st January 2004 and ending on 31st December 2006
did not vest for the Executives who were in office in 2003because GSK’s relative TSR performance was below the median and as a result the
awards lapsed.The awards made in 2003 to other senior executives, including Dr Slaoui and Mr Heslop, were dependent in part on TSR
performance and in part on EPS performance. Half of these awards vested as GSK’s EPS performance reached the target level for full vesting.
GSK Annual Report 2006
79
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
Share Value Plan awards
Dr MSlaoui – Sharesand ADSs Market Number
Number price on Vested & exercised ofADSs
Unvested granted date of Market Unvested granted
Plan year at17.05.06 in 2006 grant Number price Gain Lapsed at 31.12.06 in 2007
2004 4,660 – £11.23 – – – – 4,660 –
2006 1,200 – £14.68 – – – – 1,200 –
2007 – – $58.00 – – – – – 890
In his capacity as SVP, Worldwide Business Development, Dr Slaoui was eligible to participate in the GSK Share Value Plan.Both Dr Slaoui and
his wife, an employee of GSK, received awards under the Share Value Plan. Following the announcement of his appointment to the Board, in
February 2006, he ceased to be eligible to receive awards under this plan. The awards aresubject to a 3-year vesting period and the vesting is
contingent ontheircontinued employment with GSK.
Vested and Additional ADS Vested and
deferred by dividends deferred
participations reinvested participations
Mid-Term Incentive Plan – ADSs at 31.12.05 in 2006 at 31.12.06
Dr JP Garnier 168,464 5,230 173,694
The Mid-Term Incentive Plan (MTIP) was a share award scheme operated by SmithKline Beecham. Theplan closed to new entrants upon
completion of the merger and no further participations have been granted.
Where a final award of ADSs is made, receipt of the award may be deferred by a Director. Dr Garnier deferred receipt of the full amounts
vested in 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003. The deferred awards, together with any additional ADSs subsequently received through dividend
reinvestment, arenot included in the Directors’ interests table on page76since they are retained in the MTIP until paid out.
GSK Annual Report 2006
80
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
The following vesting schedulesapply to awards made in 2003, 2004 and 2006.
Vesting schedule
Award Performance Period TSR rank with 14 companies* Percentage of award vesting**
2003 1st January 2004 to 31st December 2006 1 100%
2004 1st January 2005 to 31st December 2007 2 100%
3 90%
4 80%
5 70%
6 60%
7 50%
Median 35%
Below median 0%
Vesting schedule
Award Performance Period TSR rank with 13 companies Percentage of award vesting**
2006 1st January 2006 to 31st December 2008 1 100%
2 100%
3 87%
4 74%
5 61%
6 48%
Median 35%
Below median 0%
* The performance comparator group for these awards comprised 14 other companies and GlaxoSmithKline. Both Aventis and Sanofi-Synthelabo were in the comparator group
prior to their merger to form Sanofi-Aventis. For the purposes of calculating TSRover the performance period for the awards granted in December 2003, the starting price of the
shares of the two individual companies will be compared to the price of the merged company at the end of the performance period, adjusted by the merger ratio. Dividends will
be treated as having been reinvested during the performance period.
**TSR is measured on a pro-rata basis. Where GlaxoSmithKline’s performance falls between two of the comparators, the level of vesting will be determined by the actual relative
level of TSR rather than simple ranking.Remuneration Report
continued
Average
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) – ADSs At 31.12.05 At 17.05.06 grant price
Dr L Shapiro 872 872 $57.25
Dr Shapiro did not exerciseanySARS in 2006. Her gain on exercise in 2005 was $6,380.
All SARs held by Dr Shapiro had a grant price above the market price of a GlaxoSmithKline ADS at 17th May 2006, the date she retired from
the Board of GlaxoSmithKline.
Dr Shapiro is a member of GlaxoSmithKline’s Scientific Advisory Board (SAB). Dr Shapiro was a member of SmithKline Beecham’s SAB from
1993 until the completion of the merger with Glaxo Wellcome. Along with other members of the SAB, she received annual grants of SmithKline
Beecham SARs which, in general, vested three years from the date of grant and will expire 10 years from the date of grant. Grants of SARs to
SAB members ceased in 1999.
SARs entitle the holder to a cash sum at a future date based on share price growth between the date of grant and the date of exercise.
Full provision is made in the financial statements for accrued gains on SARs from the date of grant. In connection with the merger, all previously
granted SARs became immediately exercisable.
Pensions
The accrued annual pension benefits and transfer values for Executive Directors on retirement are set out below.
The regulations require disclosure of the accrued benefit at the end of the year, the change in accrued benefit over the year, the transfer value
at both the beginning and end of the year, and the change in the transfer value over the year. The Listing Rules require additional disclosure
of the change in the accrued benefit net of inflation and the transfer value of this change. Pensions for the Executive Directors have been disclosed
in the currency in which the pension is payable.
Personal Change in
Change in contributions accrued Transfer value
Accrued Accrued accrued made to the Transfer Transfer Change benefit over of change
benefit at benefit at benefit scheme during value at value in transfer year net in accrued
31.12.05 31.12.06 over year the year 31.12.05 at 31.12.06 value* of inflation benefit*
000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000
Current Executive Directors
Dr JP Garnier $1,093 $1,202 $109 – $13,240 $14,680 $1,440 $87 $1,440
DrMSlaoui – $26 $26 – – $131 $131 $26 $131
€ 52 € 53 € 1 – € 493 € 538 € 45 – € 45
Mr JHeslop £75 £111 £36 £11 £1,260 £1,930 £659 £34 £415
Former Executive Directors
Dr TYamada $168 $169 $1 – $1,985 $2,110 $125 – $125
*Theseare shown net of contributions made by the individual.
DrGarnier is a member of theAllEmployee USCashBalancePensionPlan, under which GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions calculated
as a percentage of the employee’s base salary and bonus. GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions of 15% of Dr Garnier’s annual salary
and bonus, as detailed in his contract.The fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance based on the 30 year US treasury bond
rate to provide a cash sum at retirement. This cash sum is used to purchase a pension atretirement based on the annuity rates applicable at
that time. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases, other than by reducing the executive’s own initial pension.
The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Garnier’s plan has increased by $1,440,430over the year as a result offurther accumulation of interest
and contributions paid by the company.
With effect from 1st June 2006, Dr Slaoui became a member of the US ExecutiveCashBalancePensionPlan, under which GlaxoSmithKline
makes annual contributions calculated as a percentage of the executive’s base salary. GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions of 38% of
Dr Slaoui’s annual salary. The fund increases at an interest rate set annually in advance based on the 30year US treasury bond rate to provide
a cash sum at retirement.This cash sum is used to purchase a pension at retirement based on the annuity rates applicable at that time. The
plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to pension increases, other than by reducing theexecutive'sown initial pension.
Dr Slaoui was an active participant of the Belgium Fortes Plan until 31st May 2006. This plan is a defined benefit plan with a lump sum payable
at Normal Retirement age for the plan which is 60 years of age.The transfer value, or cash sum, of Dr Slaoui’s plan has increased by€ 45,042
over the year as a result of the further accumulation of interest and contributions paid by the company.
Mr Heslop participates in the Glaxo WellcomeDefinedBenefitPlan with an accrual rate of 1/30th of final pensionable salary per annum. In
2000 all benefits accrued under the Glaxo Wellcome UKpension arrangements were augmented by the Trustees of the plans by 5% to reflect
a distribution of surplus. This augmentation will apply to that element of Mr Heslop’s pension earnings before 31st March 2000.
GSK Annual Report 2006
81
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPERRemuneration Report
continued
MrHeslop’s transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial
advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11. The
transfer value represents the present value of future payments to be
made under the pension plan. Mr Heslop’s annual accrued benefit has
increased by £36,401 (£34,389 excluding the effects of inflation),
and the transfer value less personal contributions has increased by
£658,794 over the year. The increase in Mr Heslop’s pensionable salary
of £80,000 is the primary reason for the increase in transfer value.
Dr Yamada retired on 31st May 2006. He is a member of the
All Employee USCash Balance Pension Plan, under which
GlaxoSmithKline makes annual contributions calculated as a
percentage of the employee’s base salary and bonus. GlaxoSmithKline
made annual contributions of 18% of Dr Yamada’s annual salary and
bonus (as detailed in his contract). The fund increases at an interest
rate set annually in advance based on the 30 year US treasury bond
rate to provide a cash sum at retirement. This cash sum is used to
purchase a pension at retirement based on the annuity rates applicable
at that time. The plan has no entitlement to a spouse’s pension or to
pension increases, other than by reducing the executive’s own initial
pension. Dr Yamada commenced his pension benefit in the form of
an annuity on 1st June 2006.
Dr Garnier, Dr Slaoui and Dr Yamada are also members of the US
Retirement Savings Plan, a savings scheme open to all US employees
and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan, a savings scheme open
to executives to restore US government limits imposed on the
Retirement Savings Plan. Contributions to both plans are invested in
a range of funds and the value of the accumulated funds is paid at
retirement. During 2006, contributions of $183,840 (£99,373) were
paid into these two schemes by the company in respect of Dr Garnier.
In respect of Dr Slaoui, contributions of $20,354 (£11,002) were paid
into the scheme. In respect of Dr Yamada, contributions of $62,494
(£33,781) were paid into the scheme.
GSK Annual Report 2006
82
SROTCERID
EHT
FO
TROPER
Directors and Senior Management
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on
compensation and interests of Directors and Senior Management
asagroup (‘the group’). For the purpose,the group is defined as the
Directors, members of the CET and the Company Secretary. Forthe
financial year 2006, the total compensation paid to members of the
group for the periods during which they served in that capacity was
£14,906,027,the aggregate increase in accrued pension benefits,
net of inflation, was £290,013and the aggregate payment to defined
contribution schemes was £446,115. During 2006,the group were
granted887,150share optionsand1,060,000ADSoptions under the
ShareOptionScheme, 383,070 shares and 462,000 ADSsunder the
Performance Share Planand were awarded 3,160 shares under the
Share Value Plan. Members of the group were also awarded 21,339
shares and 38,458 ADSs through the reinvestment of dividends in
the Performance Share Plan.
At23rdFebruary 2007, thegroup (comprising25persons) owned
573,400shares and346,738ADSs, constituting less than 1% of the
issued share capital of the company. The group also held, at that date:
options to purchase6,302,356shares and7,720,807ADSs;1,104,369
shares and1,611,659ADSs awarded under the Performance Share
Plan, including those shares and ADSs that are vested and deferred;
222,403 vested and deferred ADSs under the legacy SmithKline
Beecham Mid-Term Incentive Plan,and21,020shares and 3,850 ADSs
awarded under theShareValuePlan. These holdings were issued under
the various executive share option plans described in Note40to the
financial statements, ‘Employee share schemes’.
Directors’ interests in contracts
Except as described in Note33to the financial statements, ‘Related
party transactions’, during or at the end of the financial year no Director
or connected person had any material interest in any contract of
significance in relation to the Group’s business with a Group company.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board
of Directors and signed on its behalf by
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
28th February2007GSK Annual Report 2006
83
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Financial statements
This section comprises the Directors’ statements of responsibility, the
Independent Auditors’ report on the financial statementsand the
consolidated financial statements consisting of the principal financial
statements and supporting notes prepared under IFRSas adopted for
use in the European Union. Also presentedis the balance sheet of
GlaxoSmithKline plc, which has been prepared under UKGAAP.
Directors’ statements of responsibility 84
Independent Auditors’ report 85
Financial statements
Consolidated income statement 86
Consolidated balance sheet 87
Consolidated cash flow statement 88
Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 89
Notes to the financial statements
1. Presentation of the financial statements 90
2. Accounting policies 90
3. New accountingrequirements 94
4. Exchange rates 94
5. Segment information 94
6. Other operating income 98
7. Operating profit 98
8. Employee costs 99
9. Finance income 99
10. Financecosts 99
11. Associates and joint ventures 100
12. Taxation 100
13. Earnings per share 102
14. Dividends 102
15. Property, plant and equipment 103
16. Goodwill 104
17. Other intangible assets 105
18. Investments in associates and joint ventures 106
19. Other investments 107
20. Other non-current assets 107
21. Inventories 108
22. Trade and other receivables 108
23. Cash and cash equivalents 108
24. Assets held for sale 108
25. Trade and other payables 108
26. Pensions and other post-employment benefits 109
27. Other provisions 115
28. Other non-current liabilities 116
29. Contingent liabilities 116
30. Net debt 116
31. Share capital and share premium account 118
32. Movements in equity 119
33. Related party transactions 120
34. Reconciliation ofprofit after tax to operating cash flows 121
35. Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 121
36. Acquisitions and disposals 122
37. Commitments 126
38. Post balancesheet events 126
39. Financial instruments and related disclosures 127
40. Employee share schemes 134
41. Reconciliation to US accounting principles 139
42. Principal Group companies 153
43. Legal proceedings 156
Balance sheetof GlaxoSmithKline plc, prepared
under UKGAAP 165Directors’ statements of responsibility
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation to Directors’ remuneration
the consolidated financial statements
The Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 82 sets out the
The Directors are responsible for: remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on
Directors’ remuneration and other disclosable information relating to
•ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting records, which
Directors and officers and their interests. It has been prepared in
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and complies with Section
at any time and from which financial statements can beprepared
B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
to comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the
IAS Regulation
Going concern basis
•preparing financial statements for each financial period which give
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in
expectationthat the Grouphas adequate resources to continue in
the European Union, of the state of affairs of theGroup as at the
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Forthis reason,
end of the financial period and ofthe profit or loss for that period
they continue to adopt the going concern basis inpreparing the
•ensuring the operation of systems of internalcontrol and for taking financial statements.
reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and for
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities. Internal control
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2006, The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates
in‘Financial statements’ on pages86to164of this report. in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the system
of internal control in operation intheGroup for the year covered by
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been
this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements,
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates
The Combined Code
asnecessary.
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles of
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report (page
Reporting Council, asdescribed under ‘Corporate governance’ on
85opposite).
pages 53 to 63, and has complied with its provisions except as
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2006 are described on page62.
included in the Annual Report 2006, which is published in hard-copy
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the
printed form and made available on the website. The Directors are
auditors haveconsidered the Directors’ statement of compliance in
responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report
relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified
on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing the
for theirreview.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements. Access to the
website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation
Annual Report
may be different.
The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2006,
Disclosure of information to auditors comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, the
Financial statements and additional information for investors, has
The Directors, in office at the date of this Report, have each
been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by
confirmed that:
•so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of
which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
•each Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken
as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware
of that information.
Sir Christopher Gent
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Chairman
with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. 28thFebruary 2007
GSK Annual Report 2006
84
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFIndependent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the Group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of
for the year ended 31stDecember 2006 which comprise the primary any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the
financial statements, the consolidated Income Statement, the Group financial statements. Our responsibilities do not extend to any
consolidated Balance Sheet, theconsolidatedCash Flow Statement, other information.
the consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and
the related notes. These Group financial statements have been Basis of audit opinion
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
We have reported separately on the parent company financial on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements of GlaxoSmithKline for the year ended 31stDecember An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
2006 and on the information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements. It
that is described as having been audited. also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and
judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group
Respective responsibilities of directors and financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are
auditors appropriate to theGroup’s circumstances, consistently applied and
adequately disclosed.
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and
the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order
European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors’ to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance
Responsibilities(page84opposite). that the Group financial statements are free from material
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
presentation of information in theGroup financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Opinion
company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.We do not, in giving In our opinion:
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or
• the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent
state of theGroup’s affairs as at 31stDecember 2006 and of its
in writing.
profit and cash flows for the year then ended;
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial
• theGroup financial statementshave been properly prepared in
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the
Regulation; and
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We also
report to you whether in our opinion the information given in • the information given in theReport of the Directorsis consistent with
the Report of the Directors is consistent with the Group the Group financial statements.
financial statements.
Separateopinion in relation to IFRSs
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if As explained in Note 1to the Group financial statements, the Group
information specified by law regarding director’s remuneration and in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with the
other transactions is not disclosed. IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the
IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects
the company’s compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view,
Code (2003) specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of theGroup’s affairs as at31st
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not. We are not December 2006 and of its profit and cash for the year then ended.
required to consider whether the board’s statements on internal
control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the
effectiveness of theGroup’s corporate governance procedures or its
risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
statements. The other information comprises only the Financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
summary, the Joint statement by the Chairman and Chief Executive, London
Financial trends and ratios, Business review and the Corporate 28th February 2007
governance statement.
GSK Annual Report 2006
85
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFConsolidated income statement
for the year ended 31st December 2006
2006 2005 2004
Notes £m £m £m
Turnover 5 23,225 21,660 19,986
Cost of sales (5,010) (4,764) (4,360)
Gross profit 18,215 16,896 15,626
Selling, general and administration (7,257) (7,250) (7,201)
Research and development (3,457) (3,136) (2,904)
Other operating income 6 307 364 235
Operating profit 7,8 7,808 6,874 5,756
Finance income 9 287 257 176
Financecosts 10 (352) (451) (362)
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures 11 56 52 60
Profit on disposal of interest in associates 36 – – 149
Profit before taxation 7,799 6,732 5,779
Taxation 12 (2,301) (1,916) (1,757)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,498 4,816 4,022
Profit attributable to minority interests 109 127 114
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,389 4,689 3,908
5,498 4,816 4,022
Basic earnings per share (pence) 13 95.5p 82.6p 68.1p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 13 94.5p 82.0p 68.0p
GSK Annual Report 2006
86
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFConsolidated balance sheet
at 31st December 2006
2006 2005
Notes £m £m
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 15 6,930 6,652
Goodwill 16 758 696
Other intangible assets 17 3,293 3,383
Investments in associates and joint ventures 18 295 276
Otherinvestments 19 441 362
Deferred tax assets 12 2,123 2,214
Other non-current assets 20 721 438
Total non-current assets 14,561 14,021
Current assets
Inventories 21 2,437 2,177
Current tax recoverable 12 186 416
Trade and other receivables 22 5,317 5,348
Liquid investments 30 1,035 1,025
Cash and cash equivalents 23 2,005 4,209
Assets held for sale 24 12 2
Total current assets 10,992 13,177
Total assets 25,553 27,198
Current liabilities
Short-term borrowings 30 (718) (1,200)
Trade and other payables 25 (4,871) (5,147)
Current tax payable 12 (621) (2,269)
Short-term provisions 27 (1,055) (895)
Total current liabilities (7,265) (9,511)
Non-current liabilities
Long-term borrowings 30 (4,772) (5,271)
Deferred tax provision 12 (595) (569)
Pensions and other post-employment benefits 26 (2,339) (3,069)
Other provisions 27 (528) (741)
Other non-current liabilities 28 (406) (467)
Total non-current liabilities (8,640) (10,117)
Total liabilities (15,905) (19,628)
Net assets 9,648 7,570
Equity
Share capital 31 1,498 1,491
Share premium account 31 858 549
Retained earnings 32 6,965 5,579
Other reserves 32 65 (308)
Shareholders’ equity 9,386 7,311
Minority interests 262 259
Total equity 9,648 7,570
Approved by the Board on28th February 2007
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2006
87
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFConsolidated cash flow statement
for the year ended 31st December 2006
2006 2005 2004
Notes £m £m £m
Cash flow from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 34 8,203 7,665 6,527
Taxation paid (3,846) (1,707) (1,583)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,357 5,958 4,944
Cash flow from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (1,366) (903) (788)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 43 54 53
Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 175 221 –
Purchase of intangible assets (224) (278) (255)
Purchase of equity investments (57) (23) (103)
Proceeds from sale of equity investments 32 35 58
Share transactions with minority shareholders 36 (157) (36) –
Purchase of businesses, net of cash acquired 36 (273) (1,026) (297)
Disposal of businesses and interest in associates 36 5 (2) 230
Investments in associates and joint ventures 36 (13) (2) (2)
Interest received 299 290 173
Dividends from associates and joint ventures 15 10 11
Net cash outflow from investing activities (1,521) (1,660) (920)
Cash flow from financing activities
(Increase)/decreasein liquidinvestments (55) 550 (53)
Proceeds from own shares for employee share options 151 68 23
Issue of share capital 31 316 252 42
Share capital purchased for cancellation – – (201)
Purchase of Treasury shares (1,348) (999) (799)
Redemption of preference shares issued by subsidiary – – (489)
Increase in long-term loans – 982 1,365
Repayment of long-term loans – (70) (15)
Net repayment of short-term loans (739) (857) (407)
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases (34) (36) (22)
Interest paid (414) (381) (350)
Dividends paid to shareholders (2,598) (2,390) (2,475)
Dividends paid to minority interests (87) (86) (73)
Dividends paid on preference shares – – (2)
Other financing cash flows 16 53 49
Net cash outflow from financing activities (4,792) (2,914) (3,407)
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts 35 (1,956) 1,384 617
Exchange adjustments (254) 233 (93)
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,972 2,355 1,831
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 1,762 3,972 2,355
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year comprise:
Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 4,209 2,467
Overdrafts (243) (237) (112)
1,762 3,972 2,355
GSK Annual Report 2006
88
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFConsolidated statement of recognised income and expense
for the year ended 31st December 2006
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (390) 203 (47)
Tax on exchange movements (78) 99 (73)
Fair value movements on available-for-sale investments 84 (1) –
Deferred tax on fair value movementson available-for-sale investments (15) (10) –
Exchange movements on goodwill in reserves 31 9 6
Actuarialgains/(losses)on defined benefit plans 429 (794) 108
Deferred tax on actuarial movements in defined benefit plans (161) 257 (17)
Fair value movements on cash flow hedges (5) (4) –
Deferred tax on fair value movements on cash flow hedges 2 1 –
Net losses recognised directly in equity (103) (240) (23)
Profit for the year 5,498 4,816 4,022
Total recognised income and expense for the year 5,395 4,576 3,999
Total recognised income and expense for the year attributable to:
Shareholders 5,307 4,423 3,906
Minority interests 88 153 93
5,395 4,576 3,999
GSK Annual Report 2006
89
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
1Presentation of the financial statements
Description of business
GlaxoSmithKline is a major global healthcare group which is engaged
in the creation and discovery, development, manufacture and
marketing of pharmaceutical products, including vaccines, over-the-
counter (OTC) medicines and health-related consumer products.
GlaxoSmithKline’s principal pharmaceutical products include
medicines in the following therapeutic areas: central nervous system,
respiratory, anti-virals, anti-bacterials, vaccines, oncology and emesis,
metabolic, cardiovascular and urogenital.
Compliance with applicable law and IFRS
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 1985, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related interpretations, as adoptedby
the European Union.
For GSK, there are no differences between IFRS as adopted for use in
the European Union and full IFRS as published by the International
Accounting Standards Board.
Financial period
These financial statements cover the financial year from 1st January
to 31stDecember 2006, with comparative figures for the financial
years from 1st January to 31st December 2005 and, where
appropriate,from 1st January to31st December 2004.
Composition of the Group
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings which, in the
opinion of the Directors, principally affected the amount of profit or
the net assets of the Group is given in ‘Principal Group companies’,
Note42.
Composition of financial statements
The consolidated financial statements are drawn up in accordance
with IFRS and with IFRS accounting presentation. The financial
statements comprise:
•Consolidated income statement
•Consolidated balance sheet
•Consolidated cash flow statement
•Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense
•Notes to the financial statements.
Additional information in accordance with the requirements of
USgenerally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) is included in
the notes to the financial statements. In Note41a statement of
differences, and reconciliations of net income and shareholders’
equity, between IFRS and US GAAP are provided.
Accounting convention
The financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost
convention, modified for certain items carried at fair value, as stated
in the accounting policies.
GSK Annual Report 2006
90
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Accounting principles and policies
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the
Group’s accounting policies approved by the Board and described in
Note2.
Parent company financial statements
The financial statements of the parent company, GlaxoSmithKline plc,
have been prepared in accordance with UKGAAP and with UK
accounting presentation. The company balance sheet is presented on
page167.
2Accounting policies
Information on the application of these accounting policies, including
areas of estimation and judgement is givenunder ‘Critical Accounting
Policies’ in ‘Financial Review 2006’ on page37.
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include:
• the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash flows, of the
company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts
•the Group’s share of theresults and net assets of associates and
joint ventures.
The financial statements of entities consolidated are made up to 31st
December.
Entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial
and operating policies are accounted for as subsidiaries. Where the
Group has the ability to exercise joint control, the entities are
accounted for as joint ventures, and where the Group has the ability
to exercise significant influence, they are accounted for as associates.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from thedate the Group
acquires controland interests sold are de-consolidatedfromthe date
control ceases.
Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated; no
profit before tax is taken on sales between subsidiaries or on sales to
joint ventures and associates until the products are sold to customers
outside the Group. Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group profit
is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered recoverable.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interestsin subsidiaries, joint
ventures and associates, representing the excess of the acquisition
costover the Group’s share of the fair values of the identifiable assets,
liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised asa separate
item in the case of subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment
in the case of joint ventures and associates. Goodwill is denominated
in the currency of the operation acquired. Where the cost of
acquisition is below the fair value of the net assets acquired, the
difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures
are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using the
equity method of accounting.Notes to the financial statements
continued
2Accounting policies continued Research and development
Research and development expenditure is charged to the income
Foreign currency translation
statement in the period in which it is incurred. Development
Foreign currency transactionsare booked inthe functional currency
expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset
of the Group companyat the exchange rate ruling on the date of
are met, usually when a regulatory filing has been made in a major
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are
market and approval is considered highly probable. Property, plant
retranslated into local currency at rates of exchange ruling at the
and equipment used for research and development is depreciated in
balance sheet date. Exchange differences areincluded in the income
accordance with the Group’s policy.
statement.
Environmental expenditure
Assets and liabilities, including related goodwill, of overseas
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, are translated intoSterling
from past or current operations and from which no current or future
at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. The results and
benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement. The Group
cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are
recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can be reliably
translated intoSterling using average rates of exchange. Exchange
estimated. This liability includes the Group’s portion of the total costs
adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for
and also a portion of other potentially responsible parties’ costs when
theyear retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
it is probable that they will not be able to satisfy their respective shares
are translated intoSterling, less exchange differences arising on related
of the clean-up obligation. Recoveries of reimbursements are recorded
foreign currency borrowings which hedge the Group’s net investment
as assets when virtually certain.
in these operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
Legal and other disputes
When translating intoSterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash
Provision is made for anticipated settlement costs where a reasonable
flows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are
estimate can be made of the likely outcome of legal or other disputes
reported in currencies of hyper-inflationary economies, adjustments
against the Group. In addition, provision is made for legal or other
aremade to reflect current price levels. Any loss on net monetary
expenses arising from claims received or other disputes. In respect of
assetsis charged to the consolidated income statement.
product liability claims related to products where there is sufficient
Revenue history of claims made and settlements, an “incurred but not
Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or reported” (IBNR) actuarial technique is used to determine a reasonable
services are supplied or made available to external customers against estimate of the Group’s exposure to unasserted claims for those
orders received and when title and risk of loss passes to the customer. products and a provision is made on that basis.
Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of discounts
No provision is made for other unasserted claims or where an
and allowances given and accruals for estimated future rebates and
obligation exists under a dispute but it is not possible to make a
returns. The methodology and assumptions used to estimate rebates
reasonable estimate. Costs associated with claims made by the Group
and returns are monitored and adjusted regularly in the light of
against third parties are charged to the income statement as they are
contractual and legal obligations, historicaltrends,past experience
incurred.
and projected market conditions. Market conditions are evaluated
using wholesaler and other third-party analyses, market research data Pensions and other post-employment benefits
and internally generated information. Turnover also includes co- The costs of providing pensions under defined benefit schemes are
promotion income where the Group records its share of the revenue calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over
but no related cost of sales. Value added tax and other sales taxes are the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the
excluded from revenue. employees’ services, in accordance with the advice of qualified
actuaries. Pension obligations are measured as the present value of
Expenditure
estimated future cash flows discounted at rates reflecting the yields
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
of high quality corporate bonds.
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet
event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably date. Actuarial gains and losses, differences between the expected
estimated. Manufacturing start-up costs between validation and the and actual returns, and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions
achievement of normal production are expensed as incurred. are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense
Advertising and promotion expenditure is charged to the income in the year in which they arise. The Group’s contributions to defined
statement as incurred. Shipment costs on intercompany transfers are contribution plans are charged to the income statement as incurred.
charged to cost of sales; distribution costs on sales to customers are
The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a similar
included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
way to defined benefit pension schemes and spread over the period
Restructuring costs are recognised in respect of the direct expenditure
during which benefit is expected to be derived from the employees’
of a business reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed
services, in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
and well advanced, and where appropriate communication to those
affected has been undertaken.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2006
91STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
2Accounting policies continued Goodwill
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments. Goodwill is deemed to
Employee share plans
have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under
share option and share award schemes. These options and awards are Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entity’s assets,
fair valued at their grant dates and the cost is charged to the income liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, this
statement over the relevant vesting periods. This has been applied on excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income statement.
a fully retrospective basis. The Group provides finance to ESOPTrusts
Other intangible assets
to purchase company shares on the open market to meet the
Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation and
obligation to provide shares when employees exercise their options
impairments.
or awards. Costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the
income statement. Shares held by the ESOPTrusts are deducted from Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately acquired
other reserves. A transfer is made between other reserves and retained or acquired as part of a business combination are amortised over their
earnings over the vesting periods of the related share options or estimated useful lives, using the straight-line basis,from the time they
awards to reflect the ultimateproceeds receivable from employees on are available for use. The estimated useful lives for determining the
exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanent impairment in value amortisation charge are reviewed annually, andtake into account the
this is also reflected by a transfer to retained earnings. estimated time it takes to bring the compounds or products to market.
Anydevelopment costs incurred by the Group and associated with
Property, plant and equipment
acquired licences, patents, know-how or marketing rights are written
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) is stated at the costof purchase
off to the income statement whenincurred, unless the criteria for
or construction less provisions for depreciation and impairment.
recognition of an internally generated intangible asset are met, usually
Financing costs are not capitalised.
when a regulatory filing has been made in a major market and approval
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost less residual value of is considered highly probable.
PP&E, excluding freehold land, using the straight-line basis overthe
Brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of businesses
expected useful life. Residual values and lives are reviewed and, where
acquired from third parties where the brand has a value which is
appropriate, adjusted annually. The normal expected useful lives of the
substantial and long-term and where the brands can be sold
major categories of PP&Eare:
separately from the rest of the businesses acquired. Brands
areamortised over their estimated useful lives, except where it is
Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years
considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
Leasehold land and Lease term or 20 to 50 years
buildings The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for internal
Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as intangible
Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years fixed assets where the software or site supports a significant business
system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset.
Ondisposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated depreciation
ERP systems software is amortised over seven years and other
and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the
computer software over three to five years.
net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to the income statement.
Impairment of non-current assets
Leases
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for
Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially all the
impairment when there is an indication that the assets might be
benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance
impaired. Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite
leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright. The assets are
useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use
included inPP&E or computer software and the capital elements of
are tested for impairment annually. Any provision for impairment is
the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance
charged to the income statement in the year concerned.
leases. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a basis
consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter. The Investments in associates and joint ventures
interest element of the lease rental is included in the income Investments in associates and joint ventures are carried in the
statement. All other leases are operating leases and the annual rentals consolidated balance sheet at the Group’s share oftheir net assets at
are included in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits or
lease term. losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
GSK Annual Report 2006
92Notes to the financial statements
continued
2Accounting policies continued Discounting
Where the time effect of money is material, balances are discounted
Available-for-sale investments
to current values using appropriate rates of interest. The unwinding
Liquid investments and other investments are treated as available-for-
of the discounts is recorded in finance income/costs.
sale investmentsandare initially recorded at cost and then remeasured
at subsequent reporting dates to fair value. Unrealised gains and losses Derivative financial instruments and hedging (2006 and 2005)
on available-for-sale investments are recognised directly in equity. On Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to
disposal or impairment of the investments, the gains and losses in market risks from treasury operations. The principal derivative
equity are recycled into the income statement. Equity investments are instruments used by GlaxoSmithKline are foreign currency swaps,
recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. The
within one year. Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for
trading or speculative purposes.
Purchases and sales of equity investments are accounted for on the
trade date and purchases and sales of other available-for-sale Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the balance
investments are accounted for on settlement date. sheet at cost and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to
fair value. Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are classified
In 2004 equity investments are recorded at cost.
on inception as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment
Inventories hedges. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair
Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower of cost value hedges are recorded in the income statement, with the changes
(including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
production overheads) and net realisable value. Cost is generally
Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges
determined on a first in, first out basis.Pre-launch inventoryis held as
are recognised in equity, to the extent that the hedges are effective.
an asset whenthere is a high probability of regulatory approval for
Ineffective portions are recognised in profit or loss immediately.
the product.Before that point a provision is made against the carrying
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled to the income statement
value to its recoverable amount, which is then reversed at the point
when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
whena high probability of regulatory approval is determined.
Hedges of net investments in foreign entities are accounted for in a
Trade receivables
similar way to cash flow hedges.
Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount less any
provisions for doubtful debts. Provisions are made where there is Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not
evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the
previous experience and general economic conditions. Receivables income statement.
are discounted where the effect is material.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging (2004 )
Cash and cash equivalents IAS 32 and 39 were adopted by the Group on 1st January 2005. In
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, current balances accordance with an exemption permitted under IFRS 1, the2004
with banks and similar institutions and highly liquid investments with information relating to financial instruments remains as reported
maturities of three months or less when acquired. They are readily under UKGAAP and applying the following policies.
convertible into known amounts of cash and have an insignificant
Derivative contracts are treated from inception as an economic hedge
risk of changes in value.
of the underlying financial instrument with matching accounting
Taxation treatment and cash flows. Derivative instruments no longer
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying designated as hedges are restated at market value and any future
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the changes in value are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
balance sheet date.
Currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to fix the value
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on of the related asset or liability in the contract currency and at the
temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and contract rate are accrued to the profit and loss account over the life
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. of the contract.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that
Gains and losses on foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges
future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary
of forecast foreign exchange transactions are deferred and included
differences can be utilised.
in the measurement of the related foreign currency transactions in the
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on period they occur. Gains and losses on balance sheet hedges are
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except accrued and are taken directly to reserves except that forward
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be premiums/discounts are recognised as interest over the life of the
controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not contracts.
reverse in the foreseeable future.
Interest differentials under interest swap agreements are recognised
Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been enacted or in the profit and loss account by adjustment of interest expense over
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax liabilities the life of the agreement.
and assets are not discounted.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2006
93STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
3New accountingrequirements 4Exchange rates
The following IFRS and IFRIC interpretationshave been issued by the The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the
IASB and are likely to affect future Annual Reports, although none is period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries,
expected to have a material impact on the results or financial position joint ventures and associated undertakings intoSterling and period
of the Group. end rates to translate the net assets of those undertakings.
The currencies which most influence these translations, and the
IFRS7 ‘Financial instruments: disclosures’ was issued in August 2005
relevant exchange rates, were:
and is required to be implemented by GSKfrom 1st January 2007. This
new standard incorporates the disclosure requirements of IAS32, 2006 2005 2004
which it supersedes, and adds further quantitative and qualitative Average rates:
disclosures in relation to financial instruments. £/US$ 1.85 1.82 1.83
£/Euro 1.47 1.46 1.47
Amendment to IAS1 ‘Capital disclosures’ was issued in August 2005
£/Yen 215 200 197
and is required to be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2007. The
Period end rates:
amendment requires new disclosuresabout how an entity manages
£/US$ 1.96 1.72 1.92
its capital resources.
£/Euro 1.48 1.46 1.41
IFRS 8 ‘Operating segments’ was issued in November 2006 and is £/Yen 233 203 197
required to be implemented by GSK from 1st January 2009. This
standard replaces IAS14 and aligns the segmental reporting 5Segment information
requirements with those of the equivalent US standard. The new
The Group’s primary segment reporting is by business sector with
standard adopts a ‘management approach’ under which segmental
geographical reporting being the secondary format. The business
information is to be disclosed on the same basis as that used for
sectors consist of Pharmaceuticals (prescription pharmaceuticals and
internal reporting purposes.
vaccines) and Consumer Healthcare (oral care, OTC medicines and
IFRIC9 ‘Reassessment of embedded derivatives’ was issued in March nutritional healthcare). The geographical sectors of the USA, Europe
2006 and is required to be implemented by GSKfrom 1st January and International (other Rest of World markets) reflect the Group’s
2007. This interpretation clarifies that an embedded derivative should most significant regional markets and are consistent with the Group’s
be assessed on its inception and only reassessed if there is a change regional market management reporting structure. Business sector
in the terms of the relevant contract. data includes an allocation of corporate costs to each sector on an
appropriate basis. There are no sales between business sectors.The
IFRIC10 ‘Interim financial reporting and impairment’ was issued in July
Group’s activities are organised on a global basis. The geographical
2006 and is required to be implemented by GSK from 1st January
sector figures are therefore influenced by the location of the Group’s
2007. Under this interpretation any impairment losses on goodwill
operating resources, in particular manufacturing and research, and by
and equity investments recognised in a quarterly interim
variations over time in intra-Group trading and funding arrangements.
statement may not be reversed in subsequent interim or annual
Turnover is shown by business sector,by location of customerand by
financial statements.
location of subsidiary. Other geographic information is given by
IFRIC11 ‘IFRS2 - Group and treasury share transactions’ was issued location of subsidiary. The UK segment information gives turnover by
in November 2006 and is required to be implemented by GSK from location of customer and location of subsidiary. The UK operating
1st January 2008. This interpretation provides guidance on whether profit, total assets and net assets are also shown. Where the Group
share-based transactions involving group entities should be accounted co-promotes a product and the third party records the sale, the Group
for as equity settled or cash settled transactions. records its share of revenue as co-promotion income within turnover.
The nature of co-promotion activities is such that the Group records
no costs of sales. Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion
revenue of £182million (2005 – £112 million, 2004 – £65 million).
GSK Annual Report 2006
94Notes to the financial statements
continued
5Segment informationcontinued
2006 2005 2004
Turnover by business sector £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 20,078 18,661 17,100
Consumer Healthcare 3,147 2,999 2,886
Turnover 23,225 21,660 19,986
Profit by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 7,125 6,159 5,126
Consumer Healthcare 683 715 630
Operating profit 7,808 6,874 5,756
Finance income 287 257 176
Finance costs (352) (451) (362)
Share ofafter tax profits of associates and joint ventures:
Pharmaceuticals 56 52 60
Consumer Healthcare – – –
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – – 149
Profit before taxation 7,799 6,732 5,779
Taxation (2,301) (1,916) (1,757)
Profit after taxation for the year 5,498 4,816 4,022
Investments in associates and joint ventures by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 295 276
Consumer Healthcare – –
Investment in associates and joint ventures 295 276
Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets by business sector
Additions
Pharmaceuticals 1,795 2,031
Consumer Healthcare 139 164
Total additions 1,934 2,195
Depreciation/amortisation
Pharmaceuticals (849) (807)
Consumer Healthcare (109) (97)
Total depreciation/amortisation (958) (904)
Impairment
Pharmaceuticals (241) (92)
Consumer Healthcare (3) –
Total impairment (244) (92)
Impairment reversal
Pharmaceuticals 61 3
Consumer Healthcare – –
Total impairment reversal 61 3
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2006
95STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
5Segment information continued
2006 2005
Total assets by business sector £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 16,936 16,431
Consumer Healthcare 2,768 2,446
Total operating assets 19,704 18,877
Investments in associatesand joint ventures 295 276
Liquid investments 1,035 1,025
Derivative financial instruments 193 179
Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 4,209
Current and deferred taxation 2,309 2,630
Tangible assets held for sale 12 2
Total assets 25,553 27,198
Total liabilities by business sector
Pharmaceuticals (8,148) (9,099)
Consumer healthcare (951) (1,070)
Total operating liabilities (9,099) (10,169)
Short-term borrowings (718) (1,200)
Long-term borrowings (4,772) (5,271)
Derivative financial instruments (100) (150)
Current and deferred taxation (1,216) (2,838)
Total liabilities (15,905) (19,628)
Net assets by business sector
Pharmaceuticals 8,788 7,332
Consumer Healthcare 1,817 1,376
Net operating assets 10,605 8,708
Net debt (2,450) (1,237)
Investments in associatesand joint ventures 295 276
Derivative financial instruments 93 29
Current and deferred taxation 1,093 (208)
Tangible assets held for sale 12 2
Net assets 9,648 7,570
2006 2005 2004
Turnover by location of customer £m £m £m
USA 11,102 9,867 9,191
Europe 7,010 6,892 6,395
International 5,113 4,901 4,400
Turnover 23,225 21,660 19,986
Turnover by location of subsidiary undertaking
USA 11,362 10,185 9,511
Europe 14,007 12,303 11,192
International 9,349 8,547 7,787
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 34,718 31,035 28,490
USA 339 308 327
Europe 6,337 4,836 4,304
International 4,817 4,231 3,873
Inter-segment turnover 11,493 9,375 8,504
USA 11,023 9,877 9,184
Europe 7,670 7,467 6,888
International 4,532 4,316 3,914
External turnover 23,225 21,660 19,986
GSK Annual Report 2006
96Notes to the financial statements
continued
5Segment information continued
2006 2005
Property, plant and equipment and other intangible asset additions by location £m £m
USA 637 509
Europe 1,020 742
International 277 944
Total additions 1,934 2,195
Total assets by location
USA 4,830 4,459
Europe 15,166 16,423
International 5,389 5,020
Inter-segment trading balances (5,681) (7,025)
Total operating assets 19,704 18,877
Investments in associatesand joint ventures 295 276
Liquid investments 1,035 1,025
Derivative financial instruments 193 179
Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 4,209
Current and deferred taxation 2,309 2,630
Tangible assets held for sale 12 2
Total assets 25,553 27,198
Net assets by location
USA 919 446
Europe 11,151 11,628
International 4,216 3,659
Inter-segment trading balances (5,681) (7,025)
Net operating assets 10,605 8,708
Net debt (2,450) (1,237)
Investments in associatesand joint ventures 295 276
Derivative financialinstruments 93 29
Current and deferred taxation 1,093 (208)
Tangible assets held for sale 12 2
Net assets 9,648 7,570
UK segment
For the purposes of USGAAP information is given separately in respect of the UK, which, although included in the Group’s Europe market
region, is considered the Group’s home segment for the purposes of segmental reporting.
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Turnover by location of customer 1,501 1,431 1,382
Turnover including inter-segment turnover 4,890 4,414 4,386
Inter-segment turnover 3,086 2,657 2,709
Turnover by location of subsidiary 1,804 1,757 1,677
Operating profit 1,468 1,576 1,327
Total assets 6,208 7,057 6,521
Net operating assets 2,829 2,290 2,253
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2006
97Notes to the financial statements
continued
6Other operating income
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Royalties 112 83 96
Asset disposal profits 169 290 146
Other income including fair value adjustments 26 (9) (7)
307 364 235
Royalties are principally a core of recurring income from the out-licensing of intellectual property. Asset disposal profits include product
divestments and disposals of equity investments, intellectual property and tangible property. Other income includes equity investment carrying
value adjustments arising from stock market changes and fair value adjustments arising on the Quest Collar and Theravance put and call options.
7Operating profit
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
The following items have been charged in operating profit:
Employee costs (Note8) 5,495 5,254 5,054
Advertising 759 697 599
Distribution costs 276 270 266
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 732 710 691
Amortisation of intangible assets 226 194 168
Net foreign exchange losses/(gains) 36 (3) 72
Inventories:
Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 4,480 4,335 4,032
Write-down of inventories 146 119 142
Reversal of prior year write-down of inventories (93) (61) (49)
Operating lease rentals:
Minimum lease payments 114 104 110
Contingent rents 11 12 9
Sub-lease payments 2 1 –
Fees payable to company’s auditor for the audit of parent company and
consolidated financial statements 1.7 1.4 1.1
Feespayable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services 15.9 13.1 13.4
The reversals of prior year write-downs of inventories principally arise fromthe reassessment of usage or demand expectations prior to
inventory expiration.
2006 2005 2004
Fees payable to the company’s auditor and its associates for other services £m £m £m
Audit of accounts ofthe Group’s UK and overseas subsidiaries and related pension
schemes of the company, pursuant to legislation 7.7 6.7 5.7
Other assurance services, pursuant to such legislation 4.4 2.6 2.2
Other tax services 1.9 2.3 3.0
All other services, includingregulatory, compliance and treasury related services 1.9 1.5 2.5
15.9 13.1 13.4
At 31st December 2006, the amount due to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and its associates for fees yet to be invoiced was £3.7million,
comprising statutory audit £3.4millionand taxation services£0.3million.
Fees in respect of the GlaxoSmithKline plc pension schemeincluded above:
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Audit 0.3 0.2 0.2
Other services 0.1 – –
0.4 0.2 0.2
GSK Annual Report 2006
98
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
8 Employee costs
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 4,363 4,152 3,864
Social security costs 461 432 430
Pension and other post-employment costs (Note26) 377 350 347
Cost of share-based incentive plans 226 236 333
Severance and other costs from integration and restructuring activities 68 84 80
5,495 5,254 5,054
The Group provides benefits to employees, commensurate with local practice in individual countries, including, in some markets, healthcare
insurance, subsidised car schemes and personal life assurance.
2006 2005 2004
The average number of persons employed by the Group (including Directors) during the year Number Number Number
Manufacturing 32,403 30,906 31,427
Selling, general and administration 53,665 53,634 53,513
Research and development 15,734 14,963 14,897
101,802 99,503 99,837
The average number of Group employees excludes temporary and contract staff. The numbers of Group employees at the end of each financial
year are given in the Financial record on page181. The average number of persons employed by GlaxoSmithKline plc in 2006 wasnil
(2005 – nil).
The compensation of the Directorsand Senior Management (members ofthe CET and the Company Secretary)in aggregate, was as follows:
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Wages and salaries 15 17 13
Social security costs 1 1 1
Pension and other post-employment costs 3 3 2
Cost of share-based incentive plans 14 15 16
33 36 32
9Finance income 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Interest income 262 268 173
Unwinding of discount on assets 1 – 3
Interest on extended credit on receivables 21 8 –
Net investment hedges (2) (17) –
Fair value adjustments on non-hedging derivatives 4 (2) –
Realised gains on financial instruments 1 – –
287 257 176
10 Finance costs 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Interest on bank loans and overdrafts (5) (11) (6)
Interest on other loans (301) (412) (337)
Interest in respect of finance leases (8) (4) (2)
Realised losses on financial instruments – – (1)
Unwinding of discount on provisions (36) (25) (16)
Fair value hedges – 2 –
Fair value adjustments on non-hedging derivatives (2) (1) –
(352) (451) (362)
GSK Annual Report 2006
99
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFSTNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
11 Associates and joint ventures 2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Associates:
Share of after tax profits of Quest Diagnostics Inc. 59 52 59
Share of after tax losses of other associates (2) (1) (1)
57 51 58
Share of after tax (losses)/profits of joint ventures (1) 1 2
56 52 60
Share of turnover of joint ventures 21 32 31
Sales to joint ventures and associates 18 48 50
Summarised income statement information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below:
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Total turnover 3,392 3,029 2,806
Total profit 315 296 275
12Taxation
2006 2005 2004
Taxation charge based on profits for the year £m £m £m
UK corporation tax at the UK statutory rate 2,512 407 304
Less double taxation relief (2,112) (235) (156)
400 172 148
Overseas taxation 2,310 1,847 1,519
Current taxation 2,710 2,019 1,667
Deferred taxation (409) (103) 90
2,301 1,916 1,757
2006 2005 2004
Reconciliation of the taxation rate on Group profits % % %
UKstatutory rate of taxation 30.0 30.0 30.0
Overseas taxes 4.2 3.0 2.5
Benefit of special tax status (5.2) (2.3) (3.6)
R&D credits (1.3) (1.4) (1.5)
Intercompany stock profit (1.9) 1.0 0.3
Impact of share based payments 0.5 (0.3) 1.5
Tax on profit of associates (0.4) (0.4) (0.4)
Other differences 0.3 (0.4) 0.5
Prior year items 3.3 (0.7) 1.1
Tax rate 29.5 28.5 30.4
Additional UK Corporation tax and Double Taxation reliefin 2006 arise fromdividends receivedfrom overseas subsidiaries. Current tax expense
has been reduced by a benefit of £5 million arising from previously unrecognised tax losses. Deferred tax expense has been reduced by a benefit
of £2 million arising from changes in tax rates.
The Group operates in countries where the tax rate differs from the UKtax rate. The impact of these overseas taxes on the company’s overall
rate of tax is shown above. Profits arising from certain operations in Singapore, Puerto Rico, Ireland and Belgium are accorded special status
and are taxed at reduced rates compared with the normal rates of tax in these territories. The effect of this reduction in the taxation charge
increased earnings per share by7.2p in 2006, 2.7p in 2005 and 3.6p in 2004.
The Group is required under IFRSto create a deferred tax asset in respect of unrealised intercompany profit arising on stock held by the Group
at the year end by applying the tax rate of the country in which the stock is held (rather than the tax rate of the country where the profit was
originally made and the tax paid, which is the practice under UKand US GAAP). The Group tax rate was decreased by 1.9% in 2006 (2005 –
1.0% increase, 2004 – 0.3% increase) as a result of increases in work-in-progress and finished goods.
The integrated nature of the Group’s worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a limited
number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay in negotiations
with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax.Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact
of life for GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2006
100Notes to the financial statements
continued
12Taxation continued
As reported last year, GSK’s largest unresolved tax issues were with the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and UKHMRevenue and Customs
(HMRC) in respect of transfer prices related to the Glaxo heritage products.
On 11th September 2006, GSK and the IRS agreed to a resolution of their dispute. Under the agreement, GSK has made gross payments to
the IRS of approximately $3.3 billion. The final net cash cost to the Group is approximately $3.1 billion, which covers federal, state and local
taxes, interest and the benefit of tax relief on the payments made. The settlement resolved all the transfer pricing issues in dispute for the period
1989 – 2000, which were due to go to trial in February 2007, and also covers the subsequent years 2001 – 2005. GSK had previously made
provision for the dispute and this settlement did not have any significant impact on theGroup’s reported earnings or tax rate for the year.
GSK continues to be in dispute with HMRC primarily in respect of transfer pricing and Controlled Foreign Companies legislation matters for
the years 1994 to date and the parties are now preparing for litigation. HMRC has not formally quantified its claims in respect of these matters
but there continues to be a wide difference between the Group and HMRC positions on these matters.GSK also has open issues in Japan and
Canada, which were the subject of court proceedings in 2006. In Japan the tax authorities are claiming approximately Yen 39 billion (£169
million) in respect of transactions in 1998. GSK has paid the tax claimed, as required by law, and applied for a refund. A court decision is expected
in late March 2007. A court decision in the Group’s dispute with the Canadian Revenue Authority over the pricing of Zantacin the years 1989
to1993 is expected in the first half of 2007.
GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing and other taxation issues
to a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the
liabilities likely to arise from open assessments. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent
upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
Except as shown in this Annual Report, no provision has been made for taxation which would arise on the distribution of profits retained by
overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings, on the grounds that no remittance of profit retained at 31st December 2006 is required in such
a way that incremental tax will arise. The aggregate amount of these unremitted profits at the balance sheet date was approximately £26billion.
Payable Recoverable Net
Movement on current tax account £m £m £m
At 1st January 2006 (2,269) 416 (1,853)
Exchange adjustments 170 (8) 162
Chargefor the year (1,981) (729) (2,710)
Cash paid 3,438 408 3,846
Other movements 21 99 120
At 31st December 2006 (621) 186 (435)
Movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities
Pensions & Share Other
Accelerated Product & other post Legal Manu- Stock option net
Deferred taxation
capital Intra-group business retirement Tax & other facturing valuation and award temporary
asset/(liability) allowances Intangibles profit disposals benefits Losses disputes restructuring adjustments schemes differences Total
Deferred tax asset at
1st January 2006 (492) (18) 709 (9) 1,035 63 160 73 (72) 151 614 2,214
Deferred tax liability at
1st January 2006 (123) (522) – 13 25 24 1 – (50) – 63 (569)
At 1st January 2006 (615) (540) 709 4 1,060 87 161 73 (122) 151 677 1,645
Exchange adjustments 11 27 – – (55) (10) (17) (1) 8 – (82) (119)
Credit/(charge) to income (5) 113 225 (9) 33 15 9 7 16 5 – 409
Credit/(charge) to equity – – – – (161) – – – – 1 (13) (173)
Transfer to/from current tax 2 – – 4 (139) – – (5) 3 – (20) (155)
Acquisitions – (84) – – – 1 – – – – 4 (79)
Other movements – – – – – 5 – – 5 – (10) –
At 31st December 2006 (607) (484) 934 (1) 738 98 153 74 (90) 157 556 1,528
Deferred tax asset at
31st December 2006 (34) (49) 934 – 416 64 147 30 (35) 124 526 2,123
Deferred tax liability at
31st December 2006 (573) (435) – (1) 322 34 6 44 (55) 33 30 (595)
(607) (484) 934 (1) 738 98 153 74 (90) 157 556 1,528
GSK Annual Report 2006
101
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFSTNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
12Taxation continued
At 31st December 2006, the Group had recognised a deferred tax asset of £98 million (2005 – £87 million) in respect of income tax losses of
approximately £348 million (2005 – £291 million). Of these losses, £100 million (2005 – £64 million) are due to expire between 2007–2013,
£178 million (2005 – £184 million) are due to expire between 2019–2027 and £70 million (2005 – £43 million) are available indefinitely. At
31st December 2006, the Group had not recognised any deferred tax asset in respect of income tax losses of approximately £3,742 million
(2005 – £217 million), of which £131 million (2005 – £28 million) are due to expire between 2007–2018, £21 million (2005 – £79 million) are
due to expire between 2019–2027 and £3,590 million (2005 – £110 million) are available indefinitely. Unrecognised losses have increased in
2006 due to quantification of previously uncertain amounts arising principally in 2003 and 2004. The Group had capital losses at 31st December
2006 estimated to be in excess of £10 billion in respect of which no deferred tax asset has been recognised. Deferred tax assets are recognised
where it is probable that future taxable profit will be available to utilise losses.All deferred taxation movements arise from the origination and
reversal of temporary differences. Other net temporary differences include accrued expenses and other provisions.
13Earnings per share
2006 2005 2004
p p p
Basic earnings per share 95.5 82.6 68.1
Diluted earnings per share 94.5 82.0 68.0
Basic earnings per share have been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in
issue during the period after deducting shares held by the ESOP Trusts and treasury shares.
Diluted earnings per share have been calculated after adjusting the weighted average number of shares used in the basic calculation to assume
the conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. A potentially dilutive share forms part of the employee share schemes where its exercise price
is below the average market price of GSK shares during the periodandany performance conditions attaching to the scheme have been met
at the balance sheet date.
The number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share are reconciledbelow.
Weighted average number of shares in issue millions millions millions
Basic 5,643 5,674 5,736
Dilution for share options 57 46 12
Diluted 5,700 5,720 5,748
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are excluded. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
14 Dividends
2006 First interim Second interim Third interim Fourth interim Total
Total dividend (£m) 619 620 671 785 2,695
Dividend per share (pence) 11 11 12 14 48
Paid/payable 6th July 2006 5th October 2006 4th January 2007 12th April 2007
2005
Total dividend (£m) 568 567 568 791 2,494
Dividend per share (pence) 10 10 10 14 44
Paid 7thJuly 2005 6th October 2005 5th January 2006 6th April 2006
2004
Total dividend (£m) 575 573 571 684 2,403
Dividend per share (pence) 10 10 10 12 42
Paid 1stJuly 2004 30th September 2004 6th January 2005 7th April 2005
Under IFRS interim dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when paid and not when declared. GSKnormally pays a dividend
two quarters after the quarter to which it relates and one quarter after it is declared. The 2006 financial statements recognise those dividends
paid in 2006, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2005 and the first and second interim dividends for 2006. The amounts
recognised in each year are as follows:
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Dividends to shareholders 2,598 2,390 2,476
GSK Annual Report 2006
102Notes to the financial statements
continued
15Property, plant and equipment Plant,
Land and equipment Assets in
buildings and vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2005 4,062 7,512 682 12,256
Exchange adjustments 136 183 19 338
Additions 54 307 640 1,001
Additions through business combinations 32 45 33 110
Disposalsand write-offs (82) (404) (4) (490)
Reclassifications 83 255 (348) (10)
Transfer to assets held for sale (4) (11) – (15)
Cost at 31st December 2005 4,281 7,887 1,022 13,190
Exchange adjustments (232) (295) (65) (592)
Additions 100 403 982 1,485
Additions through business combinations – 5 – 5
Disposalsand write-offs (44) (578) (5) (627)
Reclassifications 153 358 (511) –
Transfer to assets held for sale (14) (4) – (18)
Cost at 31st December 2006 4,244 7,776 1,423 13,443
Depreciation at 1st January 2005 (1,171) (4,578) – (5,749)
Exchange adjustments (38) (119) – (157)
Provision for the year (125) (585) – (710)
Disposalsand write-offs 43 356 – 399
Reclassifications – 1 – 1
Transfer to assets held for sale 1 10 – 11
Depreciation at 31st December 2005 (1,290) (4,915) – (6,205)
Exchange adjustments 73 196 – 269
Provision for the year (137) (595) – (732)
Disposalsand write-offs 23 506 – 529
Transfer to assets held for sale 6 3 – 9
Depreciation at 31st December 2006 (1,325) (4,805) – (6,130)
Impairment at 1st January 2005 (136) (147) (27) (310)
Exchange adjustments (9) (2) – (11)
Disposalsand write-offs 10 2 2 14
Impairment losses (13) (18) – (31)
Reversal of impairments – 3 – 3
Transfer to assets held for sale 2 – – 2
Impairment at 31st December 2005 (146) (162) (25) (333)
Exchange adjustments 13 4 3 20
Disposalsand write-offs 12 10 2 24
Impairment losses (46) (107) (2) (155)
Reversal of impairments 26 24 11 61
Impairment at 31st December 2006 (141) (231) (11) (383)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2005 (1,436) (5,077) (25) (6,538)
Total depreciation and impairment at 31st December 2006 (1,466) (5,036) (11) (6,513)
Net book value at 1st January 2005 2,755 2,787 655 6,197
Net book value at 31st December 2005 2,845 2,810 997 6,652
Net book value at 31st December 2006 2,778 2,740 1,412 6,930
The net book value at 31st December 2006 of the Group’s land and buildings comprises freehold properties £2,632million (2005 – £2,635
million), properties with leases of 50 years or more £116million (2005 – £155million) and properties with leases of less than 50 years £30
million (2005 – £55million).
GSK Annual Report 2006
103
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
15Property, plant and equipment continued
Included in land and buildings at 31st December 2006 are leased assets with a cost of £241million (2005 – £165 million), accumulated
amortisation of £95million (2005 – £49 million) and a net book value of £146million (2005 – £116 million). Included in plant, equipment and
vehicles at 31st December 2006 are leased assets with a cost of £263million (2005 – £153 million), accumulated amortisation of £97million
(2005 – £57 million) and a net book value of £166million (at 1st January 2006 – £96 million). Some lease agreements include renewal or
purchase options or escalation clauses.
The impairment losses principally arise from decisions to rationalise facilities and are calculated based on either fair value less costs to sell or
value in use. The value in use calculations determine the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, post-tax cash flows of the relevant
asset or cash generating unit, applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital of8%, adjusted where appropriate
for country specific risks.These losses have been charged throughcost of sales£125million, R&D£22million, and SG&A£8million.
Reversals of impairment arise from subsequent reviews of the impaired assets where the conditionswhich gave rise to the original impairments
are deemed no longer to apply. The principalcomponent of the 2006 reversals relates to the Montrose manufacturing facility,and all of the
reversals have been credited tocost of sales.
16Goodwill 2006 2005
£m £m
Cost at 1st January 696 304
Exchange adjustments (54) 10
Additions through business combinations 126 383
Disposals – (1)
Impairments (10) –
Cost at 31st December 758 696
Net book value at 1st January 696 304
Net book value at 31st December 758 696
The additions for the year comprise £112million on the acquisition ofCNS,Inc.,£8 millionon theacquisitionofPliva Research Instituteand
a further £6 million on the acquisition of the minority interest held in GlaxoSmithKline K.K. See Note36for further details.
The impairments in the year of £10 million relate to the Europharmbusinesslocated in Romaniaandwere determined using the fair value less
costs to sell model.
The carrying value of goodwill is made up of balances arising on acquisition of the following companies:
2006 2005
£m £m
IDBiomedical Corporation 316 358
CNS, Inc. 112 –
Nippon Glaxo 134 143
Polfa Poznan S.A. 96 98
Corixa Corporation 25 28
Others 75 69
758 696
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units which aretested for impairment at least annually. The recoverable amounts of the cash generating
units are assessed using a value in use or a fair value less costs to sellmodel, depending on the nature of the unit.Value in use is calculated as
the net present value of the projected risk-adjusted, five-year post-tax cash flows plus a terminal value of the cash generating unittowhich
the goodwill is allocated. Initially a post-tax discount rate based on the Group’s weighted average cost of capital of 8%,adjusted where
appropriate for country specific risks, is applied to calculate the net present value of the post-tax cash flows. Where this indicates that the
recoverable value of the unit is close to or below its carrying value, the impairment test is reperformed using a pre-tax discount rate and pre-
tax cash flows in order to determine if an impairment exists and to establish its magnitude. Fair value iscalculated using a discounted cash
flow approach, which in this case is based on the Group’s acquisition valuation model.
The cash generating units for which the carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the unit is significant in comparison with the total goodwill
balance are Vaccines, Consumer Healthcare, Japan and Poland. Total goodwill of £362million (2005 – £407 million), principally relating to the
acquisitions of IDBiomedical and Corixa, is allocated to the Vaccines unit. The recoverable value of this unit is determined using the fair value
less costs to sell model. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of the minority interest in Nippon Glaxo of £134million (2005 – £143 million) and
on theacquisitionof Polfa Poznan of £96million (2005 – £98 million) is allocated to the Japan and Poland cash generating units respectively.
The recoverable value of both these units is determined using the value in use model. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of CNS, Inc. in
December 2006 is allocated to the Consumer Healthcare cash generating unit.
GSK Annual Report 2006
104
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGSK Annual Report 2006
105
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
Computer Licences,
17 Other intangible assets software patents, etc. Brands Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost at 1st January 2005 609 1,449 1,143 3,201
Exchange adjustments 13 72 41 126
Additions 62 207 – 269
Additions through business combinations – 816 – 816
Disposalsand asset write-offs (9) (72) – (81)
Reclassifications from property, plant and equipment 10 – – 10
Cost at 31stDecember 2005 685 2,472 1,184 4,341
Exchange adjustments (23) (213) (62) (298)
Additions 90 138 – 228
Additions through business combinations – 29 187 216
Disposalsand asset write-offs (37) (80) – (117)
Cost at 31st December 2006 715 2,346 1,309 4,370
Amortisation at 1st January 2005 (314) (265) – (579)
Exchange adjustments (6) (21) – (27)
Provision for the year (85) (109) – (194)
Disposalsand asset write-offs 7 10 – 17
Reclassifications from property, plant and equipment (1) – – (1)
Amortisation at 31stDecember 2005 (399) (385) – (784)
Exchange adjustments 13 38 – 51
Provision for the year (87) (139) – (226)
Disposalsand asset write-offs 29 7 – 36
Amortisation at 31st December 2006 (444) (479) – (923)
Impairment at 1st January 2005 (23) (65) (21) (109)
Exchange adjustments – (2) (2) (4)
Impairment losses (1) (60) (1) (62)
Disposals and asset write-offs 1 – – 1
Impairment at 31stDecember 2005 (23) (127) (24) (174)
Exchange adjustments – 29 3 32
Impairment losses (9) (80) – (89)
Disposals and asset write-offs 8 69 – 77
Impairment at 31st December 2006 (24) (109) (21) (154)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2005 (422) (512) (24) (958)
Total amortisation and impairment at 31st December 2006 (468) (588) (21) (1,077)
Net book value at 1st January 2005 272 1,119 1,122 2,513
Net book value at 31stDecember 2005 263 1,960 1,160 3,383
Net book value at 31st December 2006 247 1,758 1,288 3,293Notes to the financial statements
continued
17Other intangible assets continued
Amortisation and impairment havebeen charged through R&D, and SG&A. At 31st December 2006, the net book value of computer software
included £28million that had been internally generated.
The additions through business combinations in the year of £216millioninclude£207million fromCNS, Inc.(Note36).
Brands comprise a portfolio of products acquired with the acquisitions ofSterling Winthrop Inc. in 1994,The Block Drug Company in 2001
and CNS, Inc. in 2006. Thebook values of the major brands are as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Panadol 317 340
Sensodyne 220 230
Breathe Right 169 –
Polident 93 97
Corega 83 87
Poligrip 57 60
Solpadeine 56 56
Others 293 290
1,288 1,160
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing support.
The brands are in relatively similar stable and profitable market sectors, with similar risk profiles, and their size, diversification and market shares
mean that the risk of market-related factors causing a shortening of the brands’ lives is considered to be relatively low. The Group is not aware
of any material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factor which could limit their useful lives. Accordingly, they are
not amortised.Each brand istested annually for impairment applying a fair value less costs to sell methodology and using five year post-tax
cash flow forecasts with a terminal value calculation and applying a discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital of
8%, adjusted where appropriate for country-specific risks.
The main assumptions include future sales prices and volumes, product contribution,the futureexpenditure required to maintain the product’s
marketability and registration in the relevant jurisdiction and the product’s life. These assumptions are reviewedas part of management’s
budgeting and strategic planning cycle for changes in market conditions andsaleserosionthroughcompetition.
18Investments in associates and joint ventures Joint Associated 2006 2005
ventures undertakings Total Total
£m £m £m £m
At 1st January 14 262 276 209
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS39 – – – (7)
At 1st January, as adjusted 14 262 276 202
Exchange adjustments (2) (35) (37) 26
Additions 8 5 13 2
Fair value adjustment – 1 1 –
Retained profit for the year (4) 46 42 46
At 31st December 16 279 295 276
The principal associated undertaking is Quest Diagnostics Inc. a US clinical laboratory business listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The investment had a book value at 31st December 2006 of £262million (2005 – £244 million) and a market value of £987million
(2005 – £1,093 million).
At 31st December 2006, the Group owned18.7% of Quest (2005 – 18.4%). Although the Group holds less than 20% of the ownership
interest and voting control in Quest, the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence throughboth its significant shareholding andits
nominated director’sactive participation on the Quest Board of Directors and Board sub-committees.
GSK Annual Report 2006
106
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
18Investments in associates and joint ventures continued
Summarised balance sheet information in respect of the Group’s associates is set out below: 2006 2005
£m £m
Total assets 2,930 3,134
Total liabilities (1,350) (1,481)
Net assets 1,580 1,653
Group’s share of associates‘ net assets 279 262
Investments in joint ventures comprise £22million share of gross assets (2005 – £17 million) and £6million share of gross liabilities (2005 – £3
million). These principally arise from50% interests in two joint ventures, Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings, L.P., which is developing specified
chemical compounds, and GlaxoSmithKline Shire BioChem, which primarily co-markets Combivir, Trizivirand Epivirin certain territories, together
with a 29% interest in another joint venture, Pharmaceutical Insurance Limited,which is a mutual insurance company covering pharmaceutical
property risk.
In 2002, GSK hedged part of the equity value of its holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. through a series of variable sale forward contracts.
The contracts(‘the equity collar’) were renewed in 2006 and are structured in five series, each over two million Quest shares, and mature between
2010 and 2012. The fair value of the contracts at 31st December 2006 was a liability of $24 million (2005 – $24 million).
19Other investments 2006 2005
£m £m
At 1st January 362 298
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS 39 – 61
At 1st January as adjusted 362 359
Exchange adjustments (45) 33
Additions 57 23
Fair value movements 116 14
Impairments (16) (35)
Transfers – (12)
Disposals (33) (20)
At 31st December 441 362
Other investments comprise non-current equity investments which are available-for-sale investmentsrecorded at fair value at each balance sheet
date. For investments traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by reference to the relevantstockexchange quoted bid price.
For other investments, the fair value is estimated by reference to the current market value of similar instruments or by reference to the discounted
cash flows of the underlying net assets.
The Group holds a number of equity investments, frequently in entities where the Group has entered into research collaborations. Equity
investments are recorded as non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year, in which case they are recorded as current
assets. Non-current equity investments include listed investments of £348million (2005 – £268 million) that offer the Group the opportunity
for return through dividend income and fair value gains.
On disposal of investments,fair value movements are reclassified from reserves to the income statement based on average cost.
The impairment losses recorded in the tables above have been recognised in the income statement for the year within other operating income,
together with amounts recycled from the fair value reserve (Note32) on recognition of the impairments. These impairments initially result from
prolonged or significant declines in the fair value of the equity investments below acquisition cost, subsequent to which any further declines
in fair value are immediately taken to the income statement.
20Other non-current assets
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts recoverable under insurance contracts 262 265
Derivative financial instruments 113 15
Pension schemes in surplus 179 12
Other receivables 167 146
721 438
GSK Annual Report 2006
107
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGSK Annual Report 2006
108
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
21 Inventories
2006 2005
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 764 721
Work in progress 626 552
Finished goods 1,047 904
2,437 2,177
22 Trade and other receivables
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade receivables 4,356 4,411
Prepaid pension contributions 1 1
Other prepayments and accrued income 223 285
Interest receivable 28 42
Employee loans and advances 51 59
Derivative financial instruments 80 180
Other receivables 578 370
5,317 5,348
Trade receivables include £13million (2005 – £2 million) due from associates and joint ventures.
Movements in the bad and doubtful debt provisionare as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
At 1st January 140 128
Exchange adjustments (9) 8
Charge for the year 12 40
Utilised (39) (36)
At 31st December 104 140
23Cash and cash equivalents
2006 2005
£m £m
Cash at bank and in hand 620 686
Short-term deposits 1,324 1,677
Commercial paper 61 1,846
2,005 4,209
24Assets held for sale
2006 2005
£m £m
Land and buildings 8 1
Plant, equipment and vehicles 1 1
Equity investments 3 –
12 2
25Trade and other payables
2006 2005
£m £m
Trade payables 865 819
Wages and salaries 718 804
Social security 104 102
Other payables 265 240
Deferred income 40 34
Customer return and rebate accruals 1,119 1,187
Other accruals 1,713 1,784
Derivative financial instruments 40 171
Dividends payable 7 6
4,871 5,147GSK Annual Report 2006
109
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
25Trade and other payables continued
Customer return and rebate accruals are provided for by the Group at the point of sale in respect of the estimated rebates, discounts or
allowances payable to customers, principally in the USA. Provisions are made at the time of sale but the actual amounts paid are based on
claims made some time after the initial recognition of the sale.Asthe amounts are estimated they may not fully reflect the final outcome and
the amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other things, the types of buying group and product sales mix. The level of
provision is reviewed and adjusted quarterly in the light of historical experience of actual rebates, discounts or allowances given and returns
made and any changes in arrangements. Future events could cause the assumptions on which the provisions are based to change, which could
affect the future results of the Group.
26 Pensions and other post-employment benefits
2006 2005 2004
Pension and other post-employment costs £m £m £m
UK pension schemes 159 124 119
US pension schemes 35 41 44
Other overseas pensions schemes 91 83 74
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 91 100 92
Other post-employment costs 1 2 18
377 350 347
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid pension schemes 237 198 192
Unfunded defined benefit pension schemes 19 25 22
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 91 100 92
Defined benefit schemes 347 323 306
Defined contribution pension schemes 29 25 23
Other post-employment costs 1 2 18
377 350 347
The costs of the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes are charged in the income statement as follows:
Cost of sales 74 71 68
Selling, general and administration 175 177 166
Research and development 98 75 72
347 323 306
GSK entities operate pension arrangements which cover the Group’s material obligations to provide pensions to retired employees.
Thesearrangements have been developed in accordance with local practices in the countries concerned. Pension benefits can be provided by
state schemes; by defined contribution schemes, whereby retirement benefits are determined by the value of funds arising from contributions
paid in respect of each employee, or by defined benefit schemes, whereby retirement benefits are based on employee pensionable remuneration
and length ofservice. Some ‘hybrid’ defined benefit schemes also include defined contribution sections.
Contributions to defined benefit schemes are determined in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
Pension costs of defined benefit schemes for accounting purposes have been assessed in accordance with independent actuarial advice, using
the projected unit method. In certain countries pension benefits are provided on an unfunded basis, some administered by trustee companies.
Liabilities are generally assessed annually in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries. Formal, independent, actuarial valuations of
the Group’s main plans are undertaken regularly, normally at least every three years.
Theassets of funded schemes are generally held in separately administered trusts or are insured. Assets are invested in different classes in order
to maintain a balance between risk and return. Investments are diversified to limit the financial effect of the failure of any individual investment.
The long term, overalltarget asset allocationis 60%equities,30% bonds and 10% property.
Actuarial movements in the year are recognised in full through the statement of recognised income and expense.
The UK discount rate is based on the iBoxx over 15 year AAindexandthe US discount rate is based on corporate bond yields which reflect
the term of the expected benefit payments. The expected rate of returnon bonds reflects the portfolio mix of index-linked, government and
corporate bonds. An equity risk premium of between 3% and 4% is added to longer term government bond yields to give the expected rate
of return on equities.Projected inflation rate and pension increases are long term predictions based on the yield gap between long term index-
linked and fixed interest Gilts. In the UK, mortality rates are calculated using the PA92 standard mortality tables projected to 2006.Plan
obligations are then increased by between 3% and 10%, depending on each individual scheme’s mortality experience, to make allowance for
future improvements in life expectancy. In the USA, mortality rates are calculated using the RP2000 fully generational table, projected using
scale AA, with the white collar adjustment.Notes to the financial statements
continued
GSK Annual Report 2006
110
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
26Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The average life expectancy assumed now for an individual at the age of 60 and projected to apply in 2026for an individual then at the age
of 60 is as follows:
UK USA
Male Female Male Female
Years Years Years Years
Current 25.3 26.8 24.3 26.1
Projected for 2026 26.9 28.6 25.8 27.0
These mortality assumptions were set following a review in December 2005. GSK expects to review these again in December 2007.
During 2006, the Group made special funding contributions to the UK and US pension schemes totalling £346million (2005 – £366 million).
In 2006, GSK formalised an agreementwith the trustees of the UKdefined benefit pension schemestomake additional contributionsof up
to£325million per year in addition to the normal contributions, over a four-year periodending 31st December 2009in order to eliminate the
then pension deficits on an IAS19 basis.
In the UK the defined benefit pension schemes operated for the benefit of former Glaxo Wellcome employees and former SmithKline Beecham
employees remain separate. These schemes were closed to new entrants in 2001 and subsequent UK employees are entitled to join a defined
contribution scheme. In the USA the former Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham defined benefit schemes were merged during 2001.
In addition, the Group operates a number of post-retirement healthcare schemes, the principal one of which is in the USA.
The Group has applied the following financial assumptions in assessing the defined benefit liabilities:
UK USA Rest of World
2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004
% pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa
Rate of increase of future earnings 4.25 4.00 4.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 3.25 3.25 3.25
Discount rate 5.00 4.75 5.25 5.75 5.50 5.75 4.25 3.75 4.25
Expected pension increases 3.00 2.75 2.50 n/a n/a n/a 2.00 2.00 2.00
Cash balance credit/conversion rate n/a n/a n/a 4.75 4.50 4.75 1.75 1.75 1.75
Inflation rate 3.00 2.75 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 1.75 1.75 1.75
The amounts recorded in the income statement and statement of recognised income and expense for the three years ended 31st December
2006 in relation to the defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes were as follows:
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2006 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 135 66 56 257 48
Past service cost 33 – (2) 31 –
Expected return on pension scheme assets (333) (142) (30) (505) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 307 113 42 462 57
Settlements and curtailments 17 (2) (4) 11 (14)
159 35 62 256 91
Actuarialgainsrecorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense 111 169 10 290 139
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2005 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 117 63 52 232 46
Past service cost – – – – 1
Expected return on pension scheme assets (285) (126) (28) (439) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 276 104 34 414 53
Settlements and curtailments 16 – – 16 –
124 41 58 223 100
Actuarial losses recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense (490) (109) (93) (692) (102)GSK Annual Report 2006
111
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
26Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
2004 UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Amounts charged to operating profit
Current service cost 117 58 42 217 37
Past service cost – – 2 2 –
Expected return on pension scheme assets (272) (118) (20) (410) –
Interest on scheme liabilities 269 104 27 400 55
Settlements and curtailments 5 – – 5 –
119 44 51 214 92
Actuarial gains/(losses) recorded in the statement of
recognised income and expense 162 26 (26) 162 (54)
The total actuarial losses recorded in the statement of recognised income and expense since 1st January 2003amount to £689million.
The fair values of the assets and liabilities of the UK and US defined benefit pension schemes, together with aggregated data for other defined
benefit pension schemes in the Group are as follows:
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2006 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.00 4,218 8.50 1,412 7.25 205 5,835
Property 7.00 210 7.50 169 6.75 11 390
Bonds 4.50 2,026 5.50 324 3.50 351 2,701
Other assets 5.00 100 5.00 48 3.75 174 322
Fair value of assets 6,554 1,953 741 9,248
Present value of schemeobligations (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345)
(890) 4 (211) (1,097)
Included in other non-current assets – 160 19 179
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (890) (156) (230) (1,276)
(890) 4 (211) (1,097)
Actual return on plan assets 560 310 56 926
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2005 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 7.75 3,895 8.50 1,440 7.00 192 5,527
Property – – 7.50 106 6.25 11 117
Bonds 4.25 1,764 5.50 352 3.50 302 2,418
Other assets 4.00 85 4.00 78 3.25 152 315
Fair value of assets 5,744 1,976 657 8,377
Present value of scheme obligations (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126)
(1,310) (174) (265) (1,749)
Included in other non-current assets – – 12 12
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (1,310) (174) (277) (1,761)
(1,310) (174) (265) (1,749)
Actual return on plan assets 932 129 63 1,124Notes to the financial statements
continued
26Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
UK USA Rest of World Group
Average
At 31st December 2004 Expected rate Fair Expected rate Fair expected rate Fair Fair
of return value of return value of return value value
% £m % £m % £m £m
Equities 8.25 3,053 8.50 1,223 7.50 208 4,484
Property – – 6.50 58 6.25 7 65
Bonds 4.50 1,428 5.75 307 3.75 270 2,005
Other assets 4.00 80 2.50 50 2.25 62 192
Fair value of assets 4,561 1,638 547 6,746
Present value of scheme obligations (5,735) (1,750) (761) (8,246)
(1,174) (112) (214) (1,500)
Included in other non-current assets – – 14 14
Included in pensions and other post-employment benefits (1,174) (112) (228) (1,514)
(1,174) (112) (214) (1,500)
Actual return on plan assets 468 204 43 715
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in defined benefit obligations UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Obligations at 1st January 2004 (5,508) (1,751) (707) (7,966) (951)
Exchange adjustments – 126 31 157 52
Service cost (117) (58) (44) (219) (37)
Interest cost (269) (104) (27) (400) (55)
Settlements and curtailments (5) – – (5) –
Actuarial losses (34) (60) (49) (143) (54)
Scheme participants’ contributions (12) – (3) (15) (8)
Benefits paid 210 97 38 345 48
Obligations at 31st December 2004 (5,735) (1,750) (761) (8,246) (1,005)
Exchange adjustments – (217) 14 (203) (138)
Service cost (117) (63) (52) (232) (47)
Interest cost (276) (104) (34) (414) (53)
Settlements and curtailments (16) – – (16) –
Actuarial losses (1,137) (112) (128) (1,377) (102)
Scheme participants’ contributions (12) – (3) (15) (9)
Benefits paid 239 96 42 377 46
Obligations at 31st December 2005 (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126) (1,308)
Exchange adjustments – 267 30 297 151
Service cost (168) (66) (54) (288) (48)
Interest cost (307) (113) (42) (462) (57)
Settlements and curtailments (17) 2 12 (3) 14
Actuarial (losses)/gains (116) 1 (16) (131) 139
Scheme participants’ contributions (11) – (3) (14) (8)
Benefits paid 229 110 43 382 54
Obligations at 31st December 2006 (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345) (1,063)
The liability for the US post-retirement healthcare scheme has been assessed using the same assumptions as for the US pension scheme,
together with the assumption for future medical inflation of9.25%, reducing by 0.75% per year to 5% in 2013 and thereafter.On this basis
the liability for the USscheme has been assessed at £927million (2005 – £1,133 million, 2004 – £895 million).
GSK Annual Report 2006
112
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
26Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
The defined benefit pension obligation is analysed as follows:
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Funded (10,099) (9,858) (8,029)
Unfunded (246) (268) (217)
(10,345) (10,126) (8,246)
Post-retirement benefits are unfunded.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
Movements in fair value of assets UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
Assets at 1st January 2004 3,955 1,583 444 5,982 –
Exchange adjustments – (117) 27 (90) –
Expected return on assets 272 118 20 410 –
Actuarial gains 196 86 23 305 –
Employer contributions 336 65 68 469 40
Scheme participants’ contributions 12 – 3 15 8
Benefits paid (210) (97) (38) (345) (48)
Assets at 31st December 2004 4,561 1,638 547 6,746 –
Exchange adjustments – 200 (4) 196 –
Expected return on assets 285 126 28 439 –
Actuarial gains 647 3 35 685 –
Employer contributions 478 105 90 673 37
Scheme participants’ contributions 12 – 3 15 9
Benefits paid (239) (96) (42) (377) (46)
Assets at 31st December 2005 5,744 1,976 657 8,377 –
Exchange adjustments – (255) (30) (285) –
Expected return on assets 333 142 30 505 –
Settlements and curtailments – – (8) (8) –
Actuarial gains 227 168 26 421 –
Employer contributions 468 32 106 606 46
Scheme participants’ contributions 11 – 3 14 8
Benefits paid (229) (110) (43) (382) (54)
Assets at 31st December 2006 6,554 1,953 741 9,248 –
The UK defined benefit schemes include defined contribution sections with account balances totalling £609million at 31st December 2006
(2005 – £515 million, 2004 – £404 million). Information on scheme assets under US GAAP is given in Note41.
Employer contributions for 2007 are estimated to be approximately £500million in respect of defined benefit pension schemes and £50
million in respect of post-retirement benefits.
The transition date for conversion to IFRSfor GSK was 1st January 2003 and therefore the following historical data has been presented from
that date. This will be built up to a rolling five year record next year.
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History ofexperiencegains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2006
Experiencegains of scheme assets (£m) 227 168 26 421
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2006 3% 9% 4% 5%
Experience(losses)/gainsof scheme liabilities (£m) (37) (16) (42) (95) 17
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2006 – 1% 4% 1% 2%
Fair value of assets 6,554 1,953 741 9,248 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,444) (1,949) (952) (10,345) (1,063)
(Deficits)/surplusesin the schemes (890) 4 (211) (1,097) (1,063)
GSK Annual Report 2006
113
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
26 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Post-retirement
Pensions benefits
History ofexperiencegains and losses UK USA Rest of World Group Group
£m £m £m £m £m
2005
Experiencegains of scheme assets (£m) 647 3 35 685
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2005 11% – 5% 8%
Experiencelosses of scheme liabilities (£m) (94) (10) (35) (139) (4)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2005 1% – 4% 1% –
Fair value of assets 5,744 1,976 657 8,377 –
Present value of scheme obligations (7,054) (2,150) (922) (10,126) (1,308)
Deficits in the schemes (1,310) (174) (265) (1,749) (1,308)
2004
Experiencegains of scheme assets (£m) 196 86 23 305
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2004 4% 5% 4% 5%
Experience(losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (25) (5) (18) (48) 47
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2004 – – 2% 1% 5%
Fair value of assets 4,561 1,638 547 6,746 –
Present value of scheme obligations (5,735) (1,750) (761) (8,246) (1,005)
Deficits in the schemes (1,174) (112) (214) (1,500) (1,005)
2003
Experiencegains of scheme assets (£m) 336 231 33 600
Percentage of scheme assets at 31st December 2003 8% 15% 7% 10%
Experience(losses)/gains of scheme liabilities (£m) (183) 5 (19) (197) (123)
Percentage of scheme obligations at 31st December 2003 3% – 3% 2% 13%
Fair value of assets 3,955 1,583 444 5,982 –
Present value of scheme obligations (5,508) (1,751) (707) (7,966) (951)
Deficits in the schemes (1,553) (168) (263) (1,984) (951)
Sensitivity analysis
Effect of changes inassumptions usedon the annual defined benefit pension and post-retirement costs or the benefit obligations:
£m
A 0.25% decrease in discount rate would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 4
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 1
Increase in pension obligation 369
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 37
A one year increase in life expectancy would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 17
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 3
Increase in pension obligation 259
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 39
GSK Annual Report 2006
114
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
26 Pensions and other post-employment benefits continued
Sensitivity analysis
£m
A 0.25% decrease in expected rates of returns on assets would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 22
A 1% increase in the rate of future healthcare inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual post-retirement benefits cost 8
Increase in post-retirement benefits obligation 89
A 0.25% increase in inflation would have the following approximate effect:
Increase in annual pension cost 23
Increase in pension obligation 298
27Other provisions
Exchange Legal
Offer Merger Operational and other Other
Incentive integration excellence disputes provisions Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1st January 2006 133 59 52 1,165 227 1,636
Exchange adjustments (5) (1) (5) (94) (15) (120)
(Credit)/charge for the year (2) (24) 134 293 45 446
Unwinding of discount 2 – – 24 10 36
Applied (11) (15) (50) (274) (41) (391)
Reversed unused – – – (8) (14) (22)
Reclassifications and other movements – (2) – (1) 1 (2)
At 31st December 2006 117 17 131 1,105 213 1,583
To be settled within one year 64 15 117 743 116 1,055
To be settled after one year 53 2 14 362 97 528
At 31st December 2006 117 17 131 1,105 213 1,583
The Group has recognised costs in previous years in respect of plans for the integration of the Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham
businesses. Implementation of the integration following the merger is substantially complete.The exchange offer incentiveprogramme operated
at the time of the merger to encourage staff to convert Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham share options into GlaxoSmithKline share
options. The incentive is paideither when employees exercise therelevantoptions, or when the options lapse,up to 2010.The discount on
thisprovision increased by £2million in 2006 (2005 – £4 million), and was calculated using risk-free rates of return.Costs recognised inthe
remaining merger integration provision in respect of identified severances are expected to be incurred in 2007.
Operational excellence is the term used by the Group to refer to the continuous worldwide programme of cost saving measures that are carried
out within all areas of the business. The majority of these projects are of a short-term nature.
GSK is involved in a number of legal and other disputes, including notification of possible claims, as set out in Note43‘Legal proceedings’.
Provisions for legal and other disputes include amounts relating to US anti-trust, product liability, contract terminations, self-insurance,
environmental clean-up and property rental. The company’s Directors, having taken legal and other specialist advice, have established provisions
after taking into account insurance and other agreements and having regard to the relevant facts and circumstances of each matter and in
accordance with accounting requirements. These provisions were discounted by £2million in 2006 (2005 – £71 million) using risk-adjusted
projected cash flows and risk-free rates of return.The effect of the change in the discount rate in 2006 is to increase the discount at 31st
December by £7million.A number of products have a history of claims made and settlements which makes it possible to use an IBNR (incurred
but not reported) actuarial technique to determine a reasonable estimate of the Group’s exposure for unasserted claims in relation to those
products. Apart from the IBNR provision, no provisions have been made for unasserted claims. The ultimate liability for such matters may vary
from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations.
It is in the nature of the Group’s business that a number of these matters, including those provided using the IBNR actuarial technique,
may be the subject of negotiation and litigation over several years. The largest individual amounts provided are expected to be settled within
three years.
At 31st December 2006, it is expected that £120million (2005 – £115 million) of the provision made for legal and other disputes will be
reimbursedby third party insurers. This amount is included within current and non-current assets.
For a discussion of legal issues, refer to Note43‘Legal proceedings’.
GSK Annual Report 2006
115
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
28Other non-current liabilities
2006 2005
£m £m
Accruals and deferred income 97 58
Derivative financial instruments 60 26
Other payables 249 383
406 467
29Contingent liabilities
At 31st December 2006 contingent liabilities, comprising guarantees, letters of credit, discounted bills and other items arising in the normal
course of business, amounted to £258million (2005 – £342 million). At 31st December 2006, £114million (2005 – £96 million) of financial
assets were pledged as collateral for contingent liabilities. For discussions of tax and legal issues, refer to Note12, ‘Taxation’ and Note43,
‘Legal proceedings’.
30Net debt
2006 2005
£m £m
Current assets:
Liquid investments 1,035 1,025
Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 4,209
3,040 5,234
Short-term borrowings:
6.125% US$ Notes 2006 – (291)
2.375% US$ Medium Term Note 2007 (255) –
Commercial paper – (576)
Bank loans and overdrafts (410) (249)
Other loans (11) (46)
Obligations under finance leases (42) (38)
(718) (1,200)
Long-term borrowings:
2.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2007 – (283)
3.375%€ European Medium Term Note 2008 (671) (689)
4.875%£ European Medium Term Note 2008 (494) (502)
3.25%€ European Medium Term Note 2009 (338) (342)
3.00%€ European Medium Term Note 2012 (503) (510)
4.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2014 (719) (825)
4.00%€ European Medium Term Note 2025 (497) (503)
5.25%£ European Medium Term Note 2033 (977) (976)
5.375% US$ US Medium Term Note 2034 (253) (288)
Loan stock (10) (11)
Bank loans (1) (3)
Other loans and private financing (212) (256)
Obligations under finance leases (97) (83)
(4,772) (5,271)
Net debt (2,450) (1,237)
Current assets
Liquid investments are classified as available-for-sale investments. At 31st December 2006, they includedredeemableshares, whichwere fully
collateralised with highly rated bonds, of€ 1 billion(£676million), and government bonds.The effective interest rate on liquid investments at
31st December 2006 was approximately3.7%(2005 – approximately 2.8%).
The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents at 31st December 2006 was approximately4.8%(2005 – approximately 4.0%).
GSK Annual Report 2006
116
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
30Net debt continued
Short-term borrowings
Commercial paper comprises a US$10 billion programme, of whichnonewas in issue at 31st December 2006 (2005 – $991 million (£576
million)), backed up by committed facilities of 364 days duration of $900million (£459million) (2005 – $900 million (£523 million)) renewable
annually, and liquid investments, cash and cash equivalents as shown in the table above.
The weighted average interest rate on current bank loans and overdrafts at 31st December 2006 was2.4% (2005 – 4.0%).
Long-term borrowings
Loans due after one yearare repayable over various periods as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Between one and two years 1,202 317
Between two and three years 366 1,224
Between three and four years 26 354
Between four and five years 7 9
After five years 3,171 3,367
4,772 5,271
The loans repayable after five years carry interest at effective rates between3.0%and5.4%. The repayment dates range from2012 to2034.
The average effective interest rate ofall Notesat 31st December 2006 wasapproximately4.3%(2005 – approximately 4.5%).
Secured loans
Loans amounting to £8 million(2005 – £20 million) are secured by charges on non-current and current assets.
2006 2005 Finance lease obligations £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 49 41
Rental payments due between one and two years 41 33
Rental payments due between two and three years 30 23
Rental payments due between three and four years 18 13
Rental payments due between four and five years 8 9
Rental payments due after five years 14 15
Total future rental payments 160 134
Future finance charges (21) (13)
Total finance lease obligations 139 121
GSK Annual Report 2006
117
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
31Share capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2004 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2005 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2006 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2004 5,949,463,628 1,487 264
Issued under share option schemes 6,300,203 2 40
Purchased and cancelled (18,075,000) (5) –
At 31st December 2004 5,937,688,831 1,484 304
Issued under share option schemes 25,162,425 7 245
At 31st December 2005 5,962,851,256 1,491 549
Issued under share option schemes 28,750,592 7 309
At 31st December 2006 5,991,601,848 1,498 858
31st December 31st December 31st December
2006 2005 2004
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options(Note40) 225,163 221,293 276,954
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 3,783,235 3,815,856 3,785,358
At 31st December 2006, of the issued share capital,153,451,642shares were held in the ESOP Trust,235,482,678shares were held as Treasury
shares and5,602,667,528shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid.The nominal,carrying and market values of the shares held
in the ESOP Trust are disclosed in Note 40.
In October 2006, the Group announced a new share buy-back programme totalling £6 billion, which is expected to be completed over a three
year period. The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares
rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors. In 2006, the Group
also commenced close period share buy-backs by operating under specific, irrevocable agreements put in place with its brokers prior to the
start of each close period.
A total of £7.8 billion has been spent by the company between 1st January 2001 and 31st December 2006 on buying its own shares for
cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which £1.3 billion was spent in 2006 (£0.5 billion under the new £6 billion programme).
20.4million shares have been purchased in the period 1st January 2007 to23rdFebruary 2007 at a cost of £290million. All purchases were
made through the publicly announced buy-back programme.
The table below sets out the monthly purchases under the share buy-back programme:
Average share price excluding
Number of shares commission and stamp duty
Month 000 £
January 2006 Nil –
February 2006 4,375 14.67
March 2006 10,040 15.34
April 2006 640 15.63
May 2006 10,200 15.09
June 2006 8,567 14.81
July 2006 5,935 15.07
August 2006 9,080 14.41
September 2006 6,525 14.42
October 2006 10,628 14.30
November 2006 18,550 13.73
December 2006 8,163 13.39
Total 92,703 14.45
All shares purchased in 2006 are held as Treasury shares. For details of substantial shareholdings refer to ‘Substantial shareholdings’
on page183.
GSK Annual Report 2006
118
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
32Movements in equity
Shareholders’ equity
Share Share Retained Other Minority Total
capital premium earnings reserves Total interests equity
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1stJanuary 2004 1,487 264 3,959 (793) 4,917 681 5,598
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 3,906 – 3,906 93 3,999
Changes in minority shareholdings – – – – – (489) (489)
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (72) (72)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,476) – (2,476) – (2,476)
Ordinary shares issued 2 40 – – 42 – 42
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled (5) – (201) 5 (201) – (201)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (799) – (799) – (799)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOPTrusts – – – 23 23 – 23
Write-down of shares held by ESOPTrusts – – (180) 180 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 333 (21) 312 – 312
At 31st December 2004 1,484 304 4,542 (606) 5,724 213 5,937
Implementation of accounting for financial
instruments under IAS 39 – – (94) 78 (16) 4 (12)
At 1st January 2005, as adjusted 1,484 304 4,448 (528) 5,708 217 5,925
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 4,426 (3) 4,423 153 4,576
Changes in minority shareholdings – – (15) – (15) (25) (40)
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (86) (86)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,390) – (2,390) – (2,390)
Ordinary shares issued 7 245 – – 252 – 252
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (1,000) – (1,000) – (1,000)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOPTrusts – – – 68 68 – 68
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (155) 155 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 240 – 240 – 240
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 25 – 25 – 25
At 31st December 2005 1,491 549 5,579 (308) 7,311 259 7,570
Recognised income and expense for the year – – 5,248 59 5,307 88 5,395
Changes in minority shareholdings – – – – – 2 2
Distributions to minority shareholders – – – – – (87) (87)
Dividends to shareholders – – (2,598) – (2,598) – (2,598)
Ordinary shares issued 7 309 – – 316 – 316
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – – (1,348) – (1,348) – (1,348)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOPTrusts – – – 151 151 – 151
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts – – (163) 163 – – –
Share-based incentive plans – – 226 – 226 – 226
Tax on share-based incentive plans – – 21 – 21 – 21
At 31st December 2006 1,498 858 6,965 65 9,386 262 9,648
Retained earnings and other reserves amounted to £7,030 million at 31st December 2006 (2005 – £5,271 million, 2004 – £3,936 million) of
which £7,180million (2005 – £8,067 million, 2004 – £10,243 million) relates to the company and £185million (2005 – £180 million, 2004
– £108 million) relates to joint ventures and associated undertakings. The cumulative translation exchange in equitysince 1st January 2003 is
shown in the following table:
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Translation exchange at 1st January 217 5 46
Exchange movements on overseas net assets (390) 203 (47)
Exchange movements on goodwill in reserves 31 9 6
Translation exchange at 31st December (142) 217 5
GSK Annual Report 2006
119
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
32Movementsin equity continued
Other reserves is analysed as follows: Cash flow
ESOP Trust Fair value hedge Other
shares reserve reserve reserves Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At1st January 2004 (2,718) – – 1,925 (793)
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled – – – 5 5
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 23 – – – 23
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 180 – – – 180
Share-basedincentive plans (21) – – – (21)
At 31st December 2004 (2,536) – – 1,930 (606)
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS39 – 76 2 – 78
At 1st January 2005, as adjusted (2,536) 76 2 1,930 (528)
Recognised income and expense for the year – – (3) – (3)
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 68 – – – 68
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 155 – – – 155
At 31st December 2005 (2,313) 76 (1) 1,930 (308)
Recognised income and expense for the year – 61 (2) – 59
Ordinary shares transferred by ESOP Trusts 151 – – – 151
Write-down of shares held by ESOP Trusts 163 – – – 163
At 31st December 2006 (1,999) 137 (3) 1,930 65
Other reserves include the merger reserve created on the merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham amounting to £1,561million
at 31st December 2006 (2005 – £1,561 million; 2004 – £1,561 million). Other reserves also include the capital redemption reserve created as
a result of the share buy-back programme amounting to £81million at 31st December 2006 (2005 – £81 million, 2004 – £81 million).
33Related party transactions
GlaxoSmithKline held an18.7% interest in Quest Diagnostics Inc. at 31st December 2006 (2005 – 18.4%). The Group and Quest Diagnostics
are parties to a long-term contractual relationship under which Quest Diagnostics is the primary provider of clinical laboratory testing to support
the Group’s clinical trials testing requirements worldwide. During 2006, Quest Diagnostics provided services of £48million (2005 – £39 million)
to the Group. At 31st December 2006 the balance payable by GlaxoSmithKline to Quest Diagnostics was £4million (2005 – £5 million).
In 2006, both the Group and Shionogi &Co. Ltd. entered into transactions with their 50/50 USjoint venture company in support of the
research and development activities conducted by that joint venture company. During 2006, GlaxoSmithKline provided services to the joint
venture of £2million (2005 – £1 million). At 31st December 2006 the balance due to GlaxoSmithKline from the joint venture was £3million
(2005 – £1 million).
Dr Shapiro, a former Non-Executive Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc, received fees of $85,000(2005 – $85,000) of which $30,000(2005 –
$30,000) was in the form of ADSs, from a subsidiary of the company, for her membership of the Group’s Scientific Advisory Board. These fees
are included within ‘Annual remuneration’ in the Remuneration Report on pages65to82.
The aggregate compensation of the Directors, CET and Company Secretary is given in Note8, ‘Employee Costs’.
GSK Annual Report 2006
120
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
34Reconciliation ofprofit after tax to operating cash flows
Reconciliation ofprofit after taxto operating cash flows 2006 2005 2004
Notes £m £m £m
Profit after tax 5 5,498 4,816 4,022
Tax on profits 2,301 1,916 1,757
Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures (56) (52) (60)
Profit on disposal of interest in associates – – (149)
Finance income/costs 65 194 186
Depreciation 732 710 691
Impairment and assets written off 208 193 94
Amortisation of intangible assets 226 194 168
(Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment – (19) 2
(Profit)/loss on saleof intangible assets (158) (203) 1
Profit on sale of equity investments (18) (15) (33)
Fair value loss on inventory sold – – 13
Changes in working capital:
(Increase)/decreasein inventories (298) 47 (33)
Increase in trade and other receivables (529) (397) (235)
Increasein trade and other payables 354 491 163
Decreasein pension and other provisions (270) (453) (351)
Share-based incentive plans 226 236 333
Other (78) 7 (42)
Cash generated from operations 8,203 7,665 6,527
35Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt
Net debt at beginning of year (1,237) (1,984) (1,648)
Implementation of accounting for financial instruments under IAS39 – 13 –
(Decrease)/increase in cash and bank overdrafts (1,956) 1,384 617
Cashoutflow/(inflow)from liquid investments 55 (550) 53
Net increase in long-term loans – (912) (1,350)
Net repayment of short-term loans 739 857 407
Net repayment of obligations under finance leases 34 36 22
Net non-cash funds of subsidiary undertakings acquired – (68) –
Exchange adjustments (9) 39 24
Other non-cash movements (76) (52) (109)
Movement in net debt (1,213) 747 (336)
Net debt at end of year (2,450) (1,237) (1,984)
GSK Annual Report 2006
121
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
35Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt continued
Analysis of changes in net debt At 31.12.05 Exchange Other Acquisitions Cash flow At 31.12.06
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 1,025 (45) – – 55 1,035
Cash and cash equivalents 4,209 (281) – 25 (1,948) 2,005
Overdrafts (237) 27 – – (33) (243)
3,972 (254) – 25 (1,981) 1,762
Debt due within one year:
Commercial paper (576) – – – 576 –
Eurobonds and Medium-Term Notes (291) 10 (255) – 281 (255)
Other (96) (1) (11) – (112) (220)
(963) 9 (266) – 745 (475)
Debt due after one year:
Eurobonds, Medium-Term Notes and
private financing (5,160) 271 230 – – (4,659)
Other (111) 10 (40) – 28 (113)
(5,271) 281 190 – 28 (4,772)
Net debt (1,237) (9) (76) 25 (1,153) (2,450)
For further information on significant changes in net debt see Note30‘Net debt’.
36Acquisitions and disposals
Details of the acquisition and disposal of subsidiary and associated undertakings, joint ventures and other businesses are given below:
2006
Acquisitions
CNS, Inc.
On19th December2006, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of CNS, Inc., a consumer healthcare companybasedinthe
USA for a cash consideration of £280million. The company markets Breathe Rightnasal dilator strips and FiberChoicedietary fibre supplements.
These are the key intangible assets acquired and have been valued using a discounted cash flow calculation.Thistransaction has been accounted
for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition reflects thepotential forexpansion of the brands into other
overseas marketsand the expected synergies for the Group. CNS,Inc. had a turnover of £71million (2005 – £60million) and a profit of £11
million(2005 – profit £9million) for the year of which £2million of turnover and £nilofprofitrelated to the period since acquisition and are
included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 4 203 207
Property, plant and equipment 1 – 1
Other assetsincluding cash and cash equivalents 44 – 44
Deferred tax provision – (77) (77)
Other liabilities (7) – (7)
42 126 168
Goodwill – 112 112
Total consideration 42 238 280
GSK Annual Report 2006
122
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
36 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Euclid SRPartners, LP
During 2006, an additional £5 million was invested in Euclid SRPartners, LP, an associate in which the Group has a 38.7% share.
Shionogi-GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Ltd
During 2006, an additional £8 million was invested in Shionogi GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Ltd, a joint venture in which the Group has a 50%
share.
Pliva Research Institute Ltd.
In May 2006, the Group purchased the entire share capital of the Pliva Research Institute Ltd. for a cash consideration of £26 million, of this
amount £8 million is deferred, with payment being made when Phase I clinical trials are initiated.
GlaxoSmithKline K.K.
In August 2006, a Japanese subsidiary of the Group made a cash payment of £150 million to complete the purchaseofthe remaining 15%
of the share capital held by the minorityshareholder.This payment wasprecededin the year by a dividend to the minority shareholders of
£7 million representing additional consideration.
Shionogi Pliva
Euclid SR GlaxoSmithKline Research GlaxoSmith-
CNSInc. Partners, LP Holdings Ltd. Institute Kline K.K. Other Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration 280 5 8 18 157 – 468
Cash and cash equivalents acquired (24) – – (1) – – (25)
Net cash payment on acquisitions 256 5 8 17 157 – 443
Net cash proceeds from disposals – – – – – (5) (5)
2005
Acquisitions
IDBiomedical Corporation
On 8th December 2005, the Group acquired 100% of the issued share capital of IDBiomedical Corporation, a biotechnology company based
in Canada specialising in the development and manufacture of vaccines, particularly influenza vaccines, for a cash consideration of £874
million. This transaction has been accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. The goodwill arising on the acquisition results from
benefits which cannot be separately quantified and recorded, including immediate access to additional ‘flu vaccines manufacturing capacity,
particularly in the event of a pandemic, a skilled workforce and good relations with the US and Canadian governments regarding the supply
of ‘flu vaccines. IDBiomedical Corporation had a turnover of £30 million (2004 – £23 million) and a loss of £83 million (2004 – loss £17 million)
for the year, of which £1 million of turnover and £11 million of loss related to the period since acquisition and are included in the Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets 15 686 701
Property, plant and equipment 88 – 88
Other assets 74 23 97
Deferred tax provision – (225) (225)
Other liabilities (136) (8) (144)
41 476 517
Goodwill – 357 357
Total consideration 41 833 874
The total consideration included directly attributable costs of £3 million.
GSK Annual Report 2006
123
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
36 Acquisitions and disposals continued
Corixa Corporation
On 12th July 2005, the Group acquired 92% of the issued share capital of Corixa Corporation, a biotechnology company specialising in
developing vaccine adjuvants and immunology based products, for a cash consideration of £150 million. This investment increased the
Group’s holding in Corixa to 100%. The Group had a number of business relationships with Corixa prior to the acquisition date, principally
in relation to an adjuvant developed by Corixa and used in some of the Group’s vaccines. This transaction has been accounted for by the
purchase method of accounting. The existing 8% investment in Corixa, with a book value of £12 million, was previously classified as an
available-for-sale investment and now forms part of the investment in the subsidiary. The existing 8% of the issued share capital had been
acquired, in previous years, for a cash consideration of £24 million. Corixa Corporation had a turnover of £3 million and a loss of £49
million for the year, of which £1 million of turnover and £24 million of loss related to the period since acquisition and are included in the
Group accounts.
Book Fair value Fair
value adjustment value
£m £m £m
Net assets acquired
Intangible assets – 115 115
Other assets 91 29 120
Other liabilities (95) (4) (99)
(4) 140 136
Goodwill – 26 26
Existing investment (12) – (12)
Total consideration (16) 166 150
The total consideration included directly attributable costs of £1 million.
Euclid SR Partners, LP
During 2005 an additional £2 million was invested in Euclid SRPartners, LP, an associate in which the Group has a38.7% interest.
GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited
In April 2005, an Indian subsidiary of the Group purchased 3.16% of the share capital held by minority shareholders, for a cash consideration
of £16 million.
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited
In May and June 2005, an Indian subsidiary of the Group purchased 1.52% of the share capital held by minority shareholders, for a cash
consideration of £26 million.
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Shanghai)Limited
During 2005, a Chinese subsidiary of the Group purchased all of the share capital held by minority shareholders for a cash consideration
of £4 million.
Disposals
Ideapharm SA
In December 2005, the Group disposed of Ideapharm SA, a subsidiary located in Romania, for cash proceeds of £3 million, which were received
in January 2006. The net assets disposed of in the year included cash of £2 million.
Aseptic Technologies S.A.
In April 2005, the Group disposed of 16.22% of Aseptic Technologies S.A. to Societe Regionale d’Investissement de Wallonie S.A. for cash
proceeds of £10 million.
GSK GSK GSK
Biologicals Aseptic Pharma- Consumer Euclid ID
(Shanghai) Tech. ceuticals Healthcare Ideapharm SR Corixa Biomedical
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Total
Cash consideration 4 – 26 16 – 2 150 874 1,072
Cash and cash equivalents acquired – – – – – – (7) 9 2
Net cash payment on acquisitions 4 – 26 16 – 2 143 883 1,074
Cash and cash equivalents disposed – – – – 2 – – – 2
Net cash proceeds from disposals – 10 – – – – – – 10
GSK Annual Report 2006
124
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
36 Acquisitions and disposals continued
2004
Acquisitions
Fraxiparine, Fraxodi and Arixtra
In September 2004, the Group acquired Fraxiparine, Fraxodiand Arixtra andrelated assets including a manufacturing facility for a cash
consideration of £297 million.
Book Fair value Net assets
value adjustment acquired
£m £m £m
Intangible assets – 262 262
Tangible fixed assets 56 (24) 32
Inventory 79 – 79
Provisions for onerous contracts – (76) (76)
135 162 297
Euclid SR Partners, LP
During 2004 an additional £2 million was invested in Euclid SR Partners, LP, an associate company in which the Group has a38.7% interest.
Disposals
Quest Diagnostics Inc.
During 2004, the Group disposed of 3.8 million shares from its investment in Quest Diagnostics Inc. for cash proceeds of £188 million, reducing
the Group’s shareholding at 31st December 2004 to 18.6%.A profit of £150 million was recognised.
GlaxoSmithKline Vehicle Finance Ltd
During 2004, the Group disposed of its employee vehicle financing subsidiary resulting in a loss of £3 million.
GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Chongqing) Ltd
During 2004, the Group disposed of GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals (Chongqing) Ltd, a Group subsidiary located in China, for £7 million.
A profit on disposal of £2 million was realised.
Beeyar Investments (Pty) Ltd
In July 2004, the Group disposed of Beeyar Investments (Pty) Ltd, a subsidiary located in South Africa, for cash proceeds of £1 million, realising
a profit of £1 million.
OptiLead S.r.l.
During the year, part of the Group’s holding in an associated undertaking, OptiLead S.r.l. was sold, resulting in a loss of £1 million.
Fraxiparine GSK GSK
Fraxodi Quest Vehicle Pharmaceuticals Beeyar
and Arixtra Euclid SR Diagnostics Finance (Chongqing) Investments Total
Cash flows £m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Cash consideration paid 297 2 – – – – 299
Net cash proceeds from disposals – – 188 34 7 1 230
GSK Annual Report 2006
125
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
37Commitments
2006 2005
Contractual obligations and commitments £m £m
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:
Intangible assets 3,219 1,833
Plant, property and equipment 521 376
Investments 196 13
Purchase commitments 299 376
Businesscombinations 258 –
Pensions 975 2,200
Theravance put option agreement 258 258
Other commitments 65 64
Interest on loans 2,875 3,067
8,666 8,187
The commitments related to intangible assets include milestone payments, which are dependent on successful clinical development and which
represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones are achieved. A number of commitments were made in 2006 under licensing and
other agreements, including ChemoCentryx Inc., EPIX Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Genmab A/S. At 31st December 2006, the Genmab agreement
was subject to review by the US Government under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. Approval was received on 6th February 2007.
On 8th December 2006, GSKentered into an agreement to acquire Domantis Limited for £230 million in cash. At 31st December 2006, the
acquisition agreement was subject to clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act.Approval was received on5th January 2007.On 21st
December 2006, GSKentered into an agreement to acquire all the outstanding shares of Praecis Pharmaceuticals Inc. for approximately $54.8
million (£28 million) by means of a cash tender offer in early2007.
In 2006, GSKformalised an agreementwith the trustees of the UKpension schemes to make additional contributions ofup to£325million
per year,in addition to the normal contributions,over a four-year period ending31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the then pension
deficits on anIAS19 basis, by that point. The table above shows this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement
of approximately £200 million. GSK has also committed to eliminate any future deficits that may arise over a rolling five-year period. No other
commitments have been made past 31st December 2009.
The Group has entered into a put option agreement whereby Theravance’s shareholders can sell up to half of their Theravance shares to GSK
at a pre-determined price ($19.375). Given the maximum number of shares subject to the put option, the Group’s obligation is capped at $525
million. The expiry date is August 2007.
The Group also has other commitmentswhich principally relateto revenue payments to be made under licences and other alliances.
Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are disclosed after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
2006 2005
Commitments under operating leases £m £m
Rental payments due within one year 94 111
Rental payments due between one and two years 74 78
Rental payments due between two and three years 55 60
Rental payments due between three and four years 41 45
Rental payments due between four and five years 33 40
Rental payments due after five years 77 103
Total commitments under operating leases 374 437
38Post balance sheet events
On 5th January 2007, GSK completed the acquisition of Domantis Limited for £230 million in cash.
On 7th February 2007, the FDA approved orlistat for OTC use in the USA under the brand name alli.
On 15th February 2007, GSKentered into a second hedging contract over an additional 10 million shares in Quest Diagnostics Inc. through
another series of variable sale forward contracts maturing between2013and2015.
On 16th February 2007, GSK completed the cash tender offer for Praecis Pharmaceuticals Inc.
On 20th February 2007, GSK and the Roche Group settled their arbitration proceedings relating to the licensing and co-marketing of carvedilol
and GSK acquired from Roche the OTC marketing rights to orlistat outside the USA.
GSK Annual Report 2006
126
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGSK Annual Report 2006
127
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
39Financial instruments and related disclosures Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that
match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a hedge
Financial risk management
against the relevant net assets.
GlaxoSmithKline plc reports inSterling and pays dividends out of
Sterling profits. The role of Corporate Treasury in GSK is to manage At 31st December 2006, the Group had outstanding contracts to sell
and monitor the Group’s external and internal funding requirements or purchase foreign currency having a total gross notional principal
and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives. Treasury amount of £14,687million (2005 – £15,974 million). The majority of
activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the contracts are for periods of 12 months or less.
Board and monitored by a treasury management group.
Based on the composition of net debt at 31st December 2006, a 10%
GSK maintains treasury control systems and procedures to monitor appreciation inSterling against major currencies would result in a
foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and other financial risks. reduction in the Group’s net debt of approximately £210million. A
10% weakening inSterling against major currencies would result in
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to
an increase in the Group’s net debt of approximately £256million.
finance its operation and to manage market risks from these
operations. Financial instrumentsinclude cash and liquid resources, Interest rate risk management
borrowings and spot foreign exchange contracts. GSK’s policy on interest rate risk management requires that the
amount of net borrowings at fixed rates increases with the ratio of
A number of derivative financial instruments are used to manage the
forecast net interest payable to trading profit.
market risks from Treasury operations. Derivative instruments,
principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts and interest The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to
rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and liquid redenominate external borrowings into the interest rate coupon
assets into the currencies required for Group purposes and to manage required for Group purposes. The duration of these swaps matches
exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign exchange rates and the duration of the principal instruments. Interest rate derivative
interest rates. instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash flow hedges of the
relevant assets or liabilities.
GSK balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets having regard
tothe cash flow from operating activities and thecurrencies in which The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or
it is earned; the tax cost of intra-Group distributions; the currencies borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward
in which business assets are denominated; and the post-tax cost of contracts to hedge future repayments back into originating currency.
borrowings compared tothepost-tax return on liquid assets.
Sensitivity analysis considers the sensitivity of the Group’s net debt to
Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements of hypothetical changes in market rates and assumes that all other
Group companies are generally invested and managed centrally by variables remain constant.Based on the composition of net debt and
Corporate Treasury.Requirements of Group companies for operating financing arrangements at 31st December 2006, and taking into
finance are met whenever possible from central resources. consideration all fixed rate borrowings in place, a one percentage
point (100 basis points)decreasein average interest rates would result
External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate Treasury,
in an increase in the Group’s annual net interest charge of
comprise a portfolio of long and medium-term instruments and
approximately £5million.
short-term finance.
Market risk of financial assets
GSK does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading
The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets in government
purposes and the Group’s Treasury policies specifically prohibit such
bonds, short-term corporate debt instruments with a minimum short-
activity. All transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to
term credit rating of A-1/P-1, money market funds with a credit rating
manage the risks arising from underlying business activities, not
of AAA/Aaa and other structured investments(credit ratings shown
for speculation.
are from Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s Investors’ Services,
Foreign exchange risk management respectively). Theseinvestments are classified as available-for-sale.
In GSK foreign currency transaction exposure arising on normal trade
Equity investments are classified as available-for-sale investments and
flows, in respect of both external and intra-Group trade, is not
the Group manages disposals to meet overall business requirements
hedged. GSK’s policy is to minimise the exposure of overseas
as they arise. The Group regularly monitors the value of its equity
operating subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency
investments and only enters into hedges selectively with the approval
income with local currency costs. For this purpose, intra-Group trading
of the Board.
transactions are matched centrally and intra-Group payment terms are
managed to reduce risk. Exceptional foreign currency cash flows are Credit risk
hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury. In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group
sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition
The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of its
to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups. Sales to the
principal assets and cash flows.These are primarily denominated in
three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately80%of the
US Dollars, Euros and Sterling. Certain of these and other borrowings
Group’s US pharmaceutical sales. At 31st December 2006, the Group
are swapped into other currencies as required for Group purposes.
had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers totalling
£1,044million (31st December 2005 – £1,051 million).39Financial instruments and related disclosures •Cash and cash equivalents – approximates to the carrying amount
continued
• Liquid investments – based on quoted market pricesin the case of
The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of marketable securities; based on principal amounts in the case of
these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them is affected by non-marketable securities because of their short repricing periods
financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Group’s
•Short-term loans and overdrafts – approximates to the carrying
financial results.
amount because of the short maturity of these instruments
The Group does not believe it is exposed to major concentrations of
•Long-term loans –based on quoted market prices in the case of
credit risk onother classes of financial instruments. The Group is
the Eurobonds and other fixed rate borrowings; approximates to
exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by
the carrying amount in the case offloating rate bank loans and
counterparties to financial instruments, but does not expect any
other loans
counterparties to fail to meet their obligations. Where the Group has
significant investments with a single counterparty, collateral is •Forward exchange contracts – based on market prices and exchange
obtained in order to reduce risk. rates at the balance sheet date
The Group applies Board-approved limits to the amount of credit •Currency swaps – based on market valuations at the balance
exposure to any one counterparty and employs strict minimum credit sheetdate
worthiness criteria as to the choice of counterparty.
•Quest equity collar and Theravance put and call options – based on
Liquidity an option pricing model which uses significant assumptions in
The Group operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies respect of price volatility, dividend yield and interest rates
established in the markets in which the Group trades. Due to the
•Interest rate instruments – based on the net present value of
nature of the Group’s business with patent protection on many
discounted cash flows
products in the Group’s portfolio, the Group’s products compete
largely on product efficacy rather than on price. Selling margins are •Receivables and payables – approximates to the carrying amount
sufficient toexceed normal operating costs and the Group’s operating
•Lease obligations – approximates to the carryingamount.
subsidiaries are substantially cash generative.
In the year ended 31st December 2006, the total amount of the
Operating cash flow is used to fund investment in the research and
change in fair values estimated using valuation techniques referred to
development of new products as well as routine outflows of capital
above resulted in a credit to the income statement of £5million (2005
expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing debt. The
– £1 million).
Group may, from time to time, have additional demands for finance,
such as forshare purchases and business acquisitions. Fair value of investments inGSK shares
At31st December 2006the ESOP Trusts held GSK ordinary shares
GSK operates with a high level of interest cover and at low levels of
with a carrying value of £1,999million (2005 – £2,313 million) with
net debt relative to its market capitalisation. In addition to the strong
a fair value of £2,062million (2005 – £2,460million) based on quoted
positive cash flow from normal trading activities, additional liquidity
market price. The shares represent purchases by the ESOP Trusts to
is readily available via its commercial paper programme and short-
satisfy future exercises of options and awards under employee
term investments. The Group also has aEuropean Medium Term
incentive schemes. Thecarrying value, which is the lower of cost or
Note programme of £10billion, of which £3.5billion was in issue at
expected proceeds, of these shares has been recognised as a
31st December 2006. In March 2004, the Group established a US
deduction from other reserves. At 31st December 2006, GSK held
Shelf Registration of $5 billion; at 31st December 2006 $2.4billion
Treasury shares at a cost of £3,147million (2005 – £1,799 million)
(£1.2billion) was in issue.
which has been deducted from retained earnings.
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
Committed facilities
The table on page129presents the carrying amounts under IFRS and
The Group has committed facilities to back up the commercial paper
the fair values of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31st
programme of $900million (£459million) (2005 – $900 million
December 2006 and 31st December 2005.
(£523 million)) of 364 days duration, renewable annually. At 31st
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included atthe December 2006, undrawn committed facilities totalled $900million
amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current (£459million) (2005 – $900 million (£523 million)).
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or
liquidationsale. The following methods and assumptions were used
to estimate thefair values:
•Equity investments – investments traded in an active market,
determined by reference to the relevant stock exchange quoted bid
price; other investments determined by reference to the current
market value of similar instruments or by reference to the discounted
cash flows of the underlying net assets
GSK Annual Report 2006
128
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continuedGSK Annual Report 2006
129
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
39Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Classification and fair values of financial assets and liabilities
The following table sets out the classification of financial assets and liabilities. Receivables and payables have been included to the extent they
are classified as financial assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 32.Where appropriate, currency and interest rate swaps have been
presented alongside the underlying principal instrument. The carrying amounts of these instruments have been adjusted for the effect of the
currency and interest rate swaps acting as hedges.
2006 2005
Carrying Fair Carrying Fair
value value value value
At 31st December £m £m £m £m
Liquid investments 1,035 1,035 1,025 1,025
Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 2,005 4,209 4,209
Current asset financial instruments 3,040 3,040 5,234 5,234
£notes and bonds (977) (1,043) (976) (1,097)
US$notes, bondsand private financing (1,435) (1,446) (1,929) (1,932)
Notes and bonds swapped into US$ (494) (493) (502) (501)
Currency swaps 101 101 54 54
Interest rate swaps (46) (46) (47) (47)
(1,874) (1,884) (2,424) (2,426)
Notesswapped into Yen (338) (335) (342) (348)
Currency swaps 44 44 10 10
(294) (291) (332) (338)
€ notes (1,671) (1,620) (1,702) (1,705)
Interest rate swap 6 6 5 5
(1,665) (1,614) (1,697) (1,700)
Othershort-term borrowings (463) (463) (909) (909)
Otherlong-term borrowings (112) (112) (111) (111)
Total borrowingsand related swaps (5,385) (5,407) (6,449) (6,581)
Equity investments 441 441 362 362
Receivables 4,773 4,773 4,934 4,934
Payables (4,581) (4,581) (4,754) (4,754)
Otherderivatives – assets 37 37 126 126
Otherderivatives – liabilities (49) (49) (150) (150)
Other financial assets 263 263 271 271
Other financial liabilities (232) (232) (391) (391)
Net financial assets and liabilities (1,693) (1,715) (817) (949)
Total financial assets 8,710 8,710 10,996 10,996
Total financial liabilities (10,403) (10,425) (11,813) (11,945)
Reconciliation to net debt
Liquid investments 1,035 1,035 1,025 1,025
Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 2,005 4,209 4,209
Total borrowings (5,385) (5,407) (6,449) (6,581)
(2,345) (2,367) (1,215) (1,347)
Less net effect of interest rate and currency swaps (105) (105) (22) (22)
Net debt (2,450) (2,472) (1,237) (1,369)Notes to the financial statements
continued
GSK Annual Report 2006
130
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
39Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Interest rate profiles of financial assets and liabilities
The following tables set out the exposure of financial assets andliabilities to either fixed interest rates, floating interest rates orno interest
rates. The maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities exposed to interest rate risk in the tables below indicates the contractual repricing
and maturity dates of these instruments.
Cash and Other
At 31st December 2006 Liquid cash financial
Investments investments equivalents Receivables assets Total
Financial assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year – 1,035 1,952 211 1 3,199
Between one and two years – – – 3 – 3
Between two and three years – – – 1 – 1
Between three and four years – – – – – –
Between four and five years – – – – – –
Greater than five years – – – – 104 104
Total interest earning – 1,035 1,952 215 105 3,307
Analysed as:
Fixed rate interest – 285 12 207 104 608
Floating rate interest – 750 1,940 8 1 2,699
Total interest earning – 1,035 1,952 215 105 3,307
Non-interest earning 441 – 53 4,558 351 5,403
Total 441 1,035 2,005 4,773 456 8,710
Cash and Other
At 31st December 2005 Liquid cash financial
Investments investments equivalents Receivables assets Total
Financial assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year – 1,025 4,188 204 94 5,511
Between one and two years – – – 8 – 8
Between two and three years – – – 13 – 13
Between three and four years – – – 12 – 12
Between four and five years – – – – – –
Greater than five years – – – – 117 117
Total interest earning – 1,025 4,188 237 211 5,661
Analysed as:
Fixed rate interest – 292 – 207 117 616
Floating rate interest – 733 4,188 30 94 5,045
Total interest earning – 1,025 4,188 237 211 5,661
Non-interest earning 362 – 21 4,697 255 5,335
Total 362 1,025 4,209 4,934 466 10,996Notes to the financial statements
continued
39Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Effect of Obligations Other
At 31st December 2006 interest rate under finance financial
Debt swaps leases Payables liabilities Total
Financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year (895) (1,883) (106) (14) – (2,898)
Between one and two years (1,166) 1,164 (10) – – (12)
Between two and three years (339) – (7) – – (346)
Between three and four years (1) – (8) – – (9)
Between four and five years – – (6) – – (6)
Greater than five years (2,948) 719 (2) – – (2,231)
Total interest bearing (5,349) – (139) (14) – (5,502)
Analysed as:
Fixed rate interest (4,721) 2,138 (46) (6) – (2,635)
Floating rate interest (628) (2,138) (93) (8) – (2,867)
Total interest bearing (5,349) – (139) (14) – (5,502)
Non-interest bearing (2) – – (4,567) (332) (4,901)
Total (5,351) – (139) (4,581) (332) (10,403)
Effect of Obligations Other
At 31st December 2005 interest rate under finance financial
Debt swaps leases Payables liabilities Total
Financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Less than one year (1,176) (2,348) (103) (148) (61) (3,836)
Between one and two years (287) 291 (3) – (23) (22)
Between two and three years (1,190) 1,185 (3) – – (8)
Between three and four years (343) – (2) – – (345)
Between four and five years – – (2) – – (2)
Greater than five years (3,354) 872 (8) – – (2,490)
Total interest bearing (6,350) – (121) (148) (84) (6,703)
Analysed as:
Fixed rate interest (5,527) 2,348 (21) – (24) (3,224)
Floating rate interest (823) (2,348) (100) (148) (60) (3,479)
Total interest bearing (6,350) – (121) (148) (84) (6,703)
Non-interest bearing – – – (4,606) (504) (5,110)
Total (6,350) – (121) (4,754) (588) (11,813)
Maturity analysis of interest earning financial assets
The maturity analysis of interest earning financial assets is equivalent to the maturity analysis presented in the interest rate profile table above.
Maturity analysis of interest bearing financial liabilities
At 31st December 2006 Finance
Debt leases Payables Total
Financial liabilities £m £m £m £m
Within one year or on demand (676) (42) (14) (732)
Between one and two years (1,166) (36) – (1,202)
Between two and three years (339) (27) – (366)
Between three and four years (11) (15) – (26)
Between four and five years – (7) – (7)
After five years (3,157) (12) – (3,169)
(5,349) (139) (14) (5,502)
GSK Annual Report 2006
131
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
39Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Other
At 31st December 2005 Finance financial
Debt leases Payables liabilities Total
Financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m
Within one year or on demand (1,162) (38) (148) (61) (1,409)
Between one and two years (287) (30) – (23) (340)
Between two and three years (1,203) (21) – – (1,224)
Between three and four years (343) (11) – – (354)
Between four and five years (1) (8) – – (9)
After five years (3,354) (13) – – (3,367)
(6,350) (121) (148) (84) (6,703)
Currency profiles of financial assets and liabilities
The Group’s currency exposures that give rise to net currency gains and losses that are recognised in the income statement arise principally in
companies with Sterlingfunctional currency. The tablesbelow setout these exposures on financial assets and liabilities held in currencies other
than the functional currencies of Group companies after the effect of currency swaps.
At 31st December 2006
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
Financial assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
Investments – 140 3 – 27 170
Cash and cash equivalents 2 81 6 2 18 109
Receivables 2 221 118 – 34 375
Other financial assets – 2 1 – 4 7
4 444 128 2 83 661
At 31st December 2005
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
Financial assets £m £m £m £m £m £m
Investments 8 108 3 – 11 130
Cash and cash equivalents 1 46 10 2 19 78
Receivables 7 123 89 – 91 310
Other financial assets – – – – – –
16 277 102 2 121 518
At 31st December 2006
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
Financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Debt – – – – – –
Obligations under finance leases – – (9) – (8) (17)
Payables (14) (117) (67) (2) (93) (293)
(14) (117) (76) (2) (101) (310)
At 31st December 2005
Sterling US$ Euro Yen Other Total
Financial liabilities £m £m £m £m £m £m
Debt – – (497) – – (497)
Obligations under finance leases – (2) – – – (2)
Payables (7) (18) (13) (1) (30) (69)
(7) (20) (510) (1) (30) (568)
GSK Annual Report 2006
132
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGSK Annual Report 2006
133
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
39Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
Derivative financial instruments
The table below sets out the net principal amount and fair value of derivative contracts held by GSK:
Fair value
Contract or underlying
principal amount Assets Liabilities
2006 2006 2006
£m £m £m
Currency and interest related instruments:
Foreign exchange contracts 461 20 (25)
Cross currency swaps 838 150 (5)
Interest rate swaps 1,696 6 (46)
Equity related instruments:
Options and warrants 407 13 (12)
Equity collar 270 – (12)
Embedded derivatives 43 4 –
Total derivative financial instruments 193 (100)
Fair value
Contract or underlying
principal amount Assets Liabilities
2005 2005 2005
£m £m £m
Currency and interest related instruments:
Foreign exchange contracts (4,665) 102 (85)
Cross currency swaps 842 64 –
Interest rate swaps 1,848 5 (47)
Equity related instruments:
Options and warrants 290 21 (49)
Equity collar 299 – (14)
Embedded derivatives 34 3 (2)
Total derivative financial instruments 195 (197)
Derivative financial instruments
Included in ‘Equity related instruments’ above are variable sale forward contracts in Quest Diagnostics Inc. and options in Theravance Inc.,
as detailed below.
In 2002, GSKhedged part of the equity value of its holdings in Quest, its largest equity investment,through a series of variable sale forward
contracts. The contracts (‘the equity collar’) were renewed in 2006 and are structured in five series, each overtwomillion Quest shares,
and mature between 2010and 2012.The fair value of the contracts at 31st December 2006 was a liability of $24 million (£12 million)
(2005 –$24 million(£14 million)).A second hedging contract over an additional 10 million shares was entered into on 15th February 2007
– see Note 38 ‘Post balance sheet events’.
The Group has entered into a put option agreement whereby Theravance’s shareholders can sell up to half of their Theravance shares to GSK
at a pre-determined price ($19.375). Given the maximum number of shares subject to the put option, the Group’s obligation is capped at
$525 million. At 31st December 2006, this option is recorded as a liability of $19million (£10 million) (2005 – $81 million(£47 million)). As
at 31st December 2006, the maximum potential exposure to GSK from fair value movements of these options is therefore approximately
$506million(£258 million) (2005 – $444 million (£258 million)). The expiry date is August 2007.
The Group has entered into a call option agreement whereby it can purchase half of the outstanding Theravance shares in issue at a pre-
determined price ($54.25). At 31st December 2006, this option is recorded as an asset of $15million (£8 million) (2005 – $28 million(£16
million)). As at 31st December 2006, the maximum potential exposure to GSK from fair value movements of this option is therefore $15
million. The expiry date is July 2007.Notes to the financial statements
continued
39Financial instruments and related disclosures continued
The following table sets out the principal amount and fair values of derivative contracts which qualify for hedge accounting treatment:
2006 2005
Contract or underlying Fair value of Contract or underlying Fair value of
principalamount derivative contract principal amount derivative contract
£m £m £m £m
Cash flow hedges:
Cross currency swaps 338 44 342 10
Fair value hedges:
Foreign exchange contracts – – 2,151 74
Interest rate swaps 1,696 (40) 1,848 (42)
Cross currency swaps 500 (5) 500 3
Net investment hedges:
Foreign exchange contracts (5,049) 11 (6,816) (57)
Cross currency swaps 500 106 500 51
Cash flow hedges
The Group has entered into a cross currency swap and designated it a cash flow hedge converting fixed Euro coupons, payable annually, to
fixed Yen payments. The bond matures in 2009. The risk being hedged is the variability of cash flows arising from currency fluctuations.
Fair value hedges
The Group has designated interest rate swaps and the interest element of cross currency swaps as fair value hedges. The risk being hedged is
the variability of the fair value of the bonds arising from interest rate fluctuations.
Net investment hedges
Foreign exchange contracts and the currency element of cross currency swaps have been designated as net investment hedges in respect of
the foreign currency translation risk arising on consolidation of the Group’s net investment in its USdollar, Euro and Yen foreign operations.
40Employee share schemes
The Group operates share option schemes, whereby options are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc
at the grant price, savings-related share option schemes and share award schemes, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares
or ADSs in GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost, subject tothe achievement by the Group of specified performance targets. In 2004, the Group
introduced a new share award scheme, the Share Value Plan, whereby awards are granted to employees to acquire shares or ADSs in
GlaxoSmithKline plc at no cost after a three year vesting period. The granting of restricted share awards has replaced the granting of options
to certain employees as the cost of the scheme more readily equates to the potential gain to be made by the employee.
Grants under share option schemes are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant. Grants of restricted shares
and share awards are normally exercisable at the end of the three year vesting/performance period. Grants under savings-related share option
schemes are normally exercisable after three years’ saving. Options under the share option schemes are granted at the market price ruling at
the date of grant. In accordance with UK practice, the majority of options under the savings-related share option schemes are granted at a
price 20% below the market price ruling at the date of grant.
Share options awarded to the Directors and, with effect from the 2004 grant, the CET are subject to performance criteria as laid out in the
Remuneration Report.
The stock-based compensation charge has been recorded in the income statement as follows:
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
Cost of sales 18 17 35
Selling, general and administration 143 150 207
Research and development 65 69 91
226 236 333
GSK Annual Report 2006
134
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
40Employee share schemes continued
Option pricing
For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the stock-based compensation charge, the Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model for 2004, 2005and 2006are as follows:
2006 2005 2004
Risk-free interest rate 4.2% – 5.0% 4.0% – 4.8% 3.3% – 4.6%
Dividend yield 3.3% 3.0% 3.2%
Volatility 18% – 29% 21% – 28% 26%–29%
Expected lives of options granted under:
Share option schemes 5 years 5 years 5 years
Savings-related share option schemes 3 years 3 years 3 years
Weighted average share price for grants in the year:
Ordinary shares £14.64 £13.15 £11.25
ADSs $51.40 $47.42 $43.23
Volatility was determined based on the three year share price history. The fair value of performance share plan grants take into account market
conditions. Expected lives of options were determined based on weighted average historic exercises of options.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 1st January 2004 205,705 £14.89 106,529 $46.58 10,583 £9.59
Options granted 9,837 £11.23 £2.49 9,222 $42.99 $8.54 1,580 £9.52 £3.30
Options exercised (5,764) £6.54 (1,845) $25.65 (232) £9.18
Optionslapsed (11,997) £15.33 (3,427) $48.28 (1,790) £10.46
At 31st December 2004 197,781 £14.92 110,479 $46.57 10,141 £9.44
Options granted 516 £12.57 £2.76 956 $45.66 $9.90 5,167 £11.45 £3.68
Options exercised (10,483) £9.91 (7,537) $38.83 (5,732) £9.16
Optionslapsed (20,888) £17.16 (8,306) $50.26 (810) £11.02
At 31st December 2005 166,926 £14.97 95,592 $46.86 8,766 £10.66
Options granted 9,776 £14.78 £3.53 7,940 $51.36 $11.59 2,069 £11.40 £3.41
Options exercised (13,244) £11.66 (13,310) $41.78 (2,009) £9.48
Optionslapsed (6,755) £15.35 (1,791) $46.88 (653) £10.97
At 31st December 2006 156,703 £15.22 88,431 $48.02 8,173 £11.11
Range of exercise prices £10.06 – £19.77 $32.09 – $61.35 £10.20 – £11.45
Weighted average remaining
contractual life 4.9years 5.6years 2.4years
The total intrinsic value (the amount by which the share price exceeded the exercise price of the option) of options exercised during 2006 was
£129million (2005 – £122million).
The aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding at 31st December 2006 was £342million.
GSK Annual Report 2006
135
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGSK Annual Report 2006
136
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
40Employee share schemes continued
In order to encourage employees to convert options, excluding savings-related share options, held over Glaxo Wellcome or SmithKline Beecham
shares or ADSs, into those over GlaxoSmithKline shares or ADSs, a programme was established to give an additional cash benefit of 10% of
the exercise price of the original option provided that the employee did not voluntarily leave the Group for two years from the date of the
merger and did not exercise the option before the earlier of six months from the expiry date of the original option and two years from the date
of the merger. The cash benefit will also be paid if the options expire unexercised if the market price is below the exercise price on the date
of expiry.
Options outstanding Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
at 31st December2006
Weighted Latest Weighted Latest Latest
Number exercise exercise Number exercise exercise Number Exercise exercise
Year of grant 000 price date 000 price date 000 price date
1997 4,379 £11.85 13.11.07 2,130 $40.20 13.11.07 – – –
1998 14,286 £16.91 23.11.08 5,132 $54.29 23.11.08 – – –
1999 15,225 £18.20 01.12.09 6,966 $60.15 24.11.09 – – –
2000 14,649 £14.90 11.09.10 326 $58.88 09.08.10 – – –
2001 42,824 £18.12 29.11.11 27,450 $51.84 28.11.11 – – –
2002 19,302 £11.95 03.12.12 9,838 $37.60 03.12.12 – – –
2003 27,318 £12.67 14.12.13 19,396 $43.55 14.12.13 179 £10.20 31.05.07
2004 8,922 £11.23 02.12.14 8,919 $43.05 02.12.14 1,268 £9.52 31.05.08
2005 206 £13.08 01.11.15 464 $47.33 31.10.15 4,663 £11.45 31.05.09
2006 9,592 £14.69 28.11.16 7,810 $51.34 28.07.16 2,063 £11.40 31.05.10
Total 156,703 £15.22 88,431 $48.02 8,173 £11.11
All of the above options are exercisable, except all options over shares and ADSs granted in 2004, 2005 and 2006 and the savings-related
share options granted in 2004, 2005 and 2006.The total number of non-vested options at 31st December 2006 was26,713,865 share
options and 17,192,398 ADS options(2005 –45,645,311 share options and 31,326,848 ADS options). These options had a weighted average
grant date fair value of £3.53forshare options, $11.59for ADS options and £3.41for savings-related share options (2005 – £2.95, $2.72
and £3.68respectively).
There has been no change in the effective exercise price of any outstanding options during the year.
Options exercisable Share option Share option Savings-related
schemes – shares schemes – ADSs share option schemes
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted
Number exercise fair Number exercise fair Number exercise fair
000 price value 000 price value 000 price value
At 31st December 2004 126,917 £16.49 57,421 $51.75 270 £14.12
At 31st December 2005 128,316 £15.77 64,265 $48.56 1,429 £9.16
At 31st December 2006 137,983 £15.51 71,238 $48.32 179 £10.20
Weighted average remaining 4.4years 4.9years 0.3years
contractual life
Options vested during the year 24,991 £3.27 18,103 $12.35 789 £4.15
Theaggregateintrinsic value of options exercisable at 31st December 2006 was £251million.The total fair value of options vesting during
the year was £206million (2005 – £250million; 2004 – £630million).GSK Annual Report 2006
137
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
40Employee share schemes continued
GlaxoSmithKline share award schemes
Performance Share Plan
The Group operates a Performance Share Plan whereby awards are granted to Directors and senior executives at no cost. The percentage of
each award that vests is based upon the performance of the Group over a three year measurement period. The performance conditions consist
of two parts, each of which applies to 50% of the award. For awards granted in 2003, the first part of the condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s
Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over the period with the TSR of companies in the UKFTSE 100 Index over the same period. For awards granted
in 2004, and subsequent years, the first part of the condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s TSR over the period with the TSR of 13 pharmaceutical
companies in the comparator group over the same period. The second part of the performance condition compares GlaxoSmithKline’s earnings
per share growth to the increase in the UKRetail Prices Index over the three year performance period. Awards granted to Directors and
members of the CET from 15th December 2003 are subject to a single performance condition which compares GlaxoSmithKline’s TSR over
the period with the TSR of companies in the comparator group over the same period.
Shares Weighted ADSs Weighted
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2004 3,500 2,479
Awards granted 1,778 £7.25 1,339 $23.89
Awards exercised (409) (187)
Awards cancelled (520) (276)
At 31st December 2004 4,349 3,355
Awards granted 130 £9.02 88 $32.34
Awards exercised (375) (199)
Awards cancelled (477) (237)
At 31st December 2005 3,627 3,007
Awards granted 2,068 £10.06 1,452 $35.13
Awards exercised (438) (187)
Awards cancelled (501) (238)
At 31st December 2006 4,756 4,034
Share Value Plan
The Group operates a Share Value Plan whereby awards are granted, in the form of shares, to certain employees at no cost. The awards vest
after three years. There are no performance criteria attached.
Shares Weighted ADSs Weighted
Number of shares and ADSs issuable Number (000) fair value Number (000) fair value
At 1st January 2004 – –
Awards granted 4,419 £10.07 3,562 $38.14
At 31st December 2004 4,419 3,562
Awards granted 403 £12.00 511 $44.39
Awards exercised (138) (143)
Awardscancelled (170) (81)
At 31st December 2005 4,514 3,849
Awards granted 4,759 £13.45 4,126 $52.53
Awards exercised (131) (66)
Awards cancelled (348) (280)
At 31st December 2006 8,794 7,629Notes to the financial statements
continued
40Employee share schemes continued
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts
The Group sponsors Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trusts to acquire and hold shares in GlaxoSmithKline plc to satisfy awards made
under employee incentive plans and options granted under employee share option schemes. The trustees of the ESOP Trusts purchase shares
onthe open market with finance provided by the Group by way of loans or contributions.Costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to
the income statement. Shares held by the ESOPTrusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the value of proceeds receivable from
employees on exercise. If there is deemed to be a permanent diminution in value this is reflected by a transfer to retained earnings. The Trusts
also acquire and hold shares to meet notional dividends re-invested on deferred awards under the SmithKline Beecham Mid-Term Incentive
Plan. The trustees have waived their rights to dividends on the shares held by the ESOP Trusts.
Shares held for share award schemes 2006 2005
Number of shares (‘000) 37,508 22,169
£m £m
Nominal value 9 6
Carrying value 196 116
Market value 504 326
Shares held for share option schemes 2006 2005
Number of shares (‘000) 115,943 145,267
£m £m
Nominal value 29 36
Carrying value 1,803 2,197
Market value 1,558 2,134
GSK Annual Report 2006
138
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF41Reconciliation to USaccounting principles Under US GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 30th June
2001 was capitalised and amortised over a period not exceeding 40
The analyses and reconciliations presented in this Note represent the
years. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
financial information prepared on the basis of US Generally Accepted
issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS)142,
Accounting Principles (USGAAP) rather than IFRS.
‘Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets’.Like IFRS 3, SFAS 142 requires
Summary of material differences between IFRS and that goodwillmust not be amortisedand that annual impairment
US GAAP tests of goodwill must be undertaken. The implementation of SFAS
Acquisition of SmithKline Beecham 142 in 2002, a year earlier than the Group’s transition to IFRS, results
The Group has exercised the exemption available under IFRS 1 ‘First- in goodwill balances acquired between 1998 and 2003 reflecting one
timeAdoption of IFRS’ not to restate business combinations prior to year less of amortisation under USGAAP than under IFRS.
the date of transition of the Group’s reporting GAAP from UK
Under IFRS, costs to be incurred in integrating and restructuring the
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (UKGAAP) to IFRS.
Wellcome, SmithKline Beecham and Block Drug businesses following
Therefore the combination in 2000 of Glaxo Wellcome plc and
the acquisitions in 1995, 2000 and 2001 respectively were charged
SmithKline Beecham plc continues to be accounted for as a merger
to the income statement post acquisition. Similarly, integration and
(pooling of interests) in accordance withUKGAAPat that time. Under
restructuring costs arising in respect of the acquisitions ofCNS in 2006
US GAAP, this business combination did not qualify for pooling of
andCorixa and IDBiomedical in 2005 have been charged to the
interests accounting and Glaxo Wellcome was deemed to be the
income statement under IFRS. Under USGAAP, certain ofthese costs
accounting acquirer in a purchase business combination.
are considered in the allocation of purchase consideration thereby
Accordingly the net assets of SmithKline Beecham were recognised affecting the goodwill arising on acquisition.
at fair valueas at the date of acquisition. As a result of the fair value
In-process research & development (IPR&D)
exercise, increases in the values of SmithKline Beecham’s inventory,
Under IFRS, IPR&D projects acquired in a business combination are
property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments and
capitalised and remain on the balance sheet, subject to any
pension obligations were recognised and fair market values attributed
impairment write-downs. Amortisation is charged over the assets’
to its internally-generated intangible assets, mainly product rights
estimated useful lives from the point when the assets became
(inclusive of patents andtrademarks) and in-process research and
available for use. Under USGAAP, such assets are recognised in
development, together with appropriate deferred taxation effects.
the opening balance sheet but are then written off immediately to
The difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of
the income statement, as the technological feasibility of the IPR&D
the assets and liabilities of SmithKline Beecham is recorded
has not yet been established and it has no alternative future use.
as goodwill.
Under IFRS, deferred tax is provided for IPR&D assets acquired in a
Capitalised interest business combination. USGAAP does not provide for deferred tax
Under IFRS, the Group does not capitalise interest. USGAAP requires on these assets, resulting in a reconciling adjustment to deferred
interest incurred as part of the cost of constructing a fixed assetto be tax and goodwill.
capitalised and amortised over the life of the asset.
IPR&D acquired in transactions other than business combinations is
Goodwill discussed under Intangible assets below.
The Group has exercised the exemption available under IFRS1 not to
Intangible assets
restate business combinations prior to the date of transition of the
Under IFRS, certain intangible assets related to specific compounds or
Group’s reporting GAAP from UKGAAP to IFRS. Under UKGAAP,
products which are purchased from a third party and are developed
goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1998 accounted for under the
for commercial applications are capitalised but not subject to
purchase method was eliminated against equity, and under IFRS, on
amortisation until regulatory approval is obtained. Under USGAAP,
future disposal or closure of a business, any goodwill previously taken
payments madein respect of these compounds or products which are
directly to equity under a former GAAP will not be charged against
still in development and have not yet received regulatory approval are
income. Under UKGAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions from 1998
charged directly to theincome statement.
was capitalised and amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years.
On the date of the Group’s transition to IFRS, 1st January 2003, Under IFRS, intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful
amortisation ceased in accordance with IFRS 3 ‘Business economic life except in the case of certain acquired brands where the
combinations’. The Group must instead identify and value its reporting end of the useful economic life of the brand cannot be foreseen.
units for the purpose of assessing, at least annually, potential Under US GAAP, until the implementation of SFAS142 ‘Goodwill and
impairment of goodwill allocated to each reporting unit. As permitted Other Intangible Assets’ in 2002, all intangible assets, including
by the business combinations exemption available under IFRS 1, brands, were amortised over a finite life. On implementation of SFAS
amortisation arising prior to 2003 was not reversed. 142 in 2002, intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives were
no longer amortised. As a result of the difference in accounting
treatment prior to the implementation of SFAS142, the carrying
values ofindefinite lived brandsare affected by amortisation charged
before 2002 under USGAAP.
GSK Annual Report 2006
139
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued41Reconciliation to US accounting principles The proceeds from sale of marketable securities under USGAAP were
continued £19,013million in the year ended 31st December 2006 (2005 –
£19,416 million). The proceeds include the roll-over of liquid funds on
Restructuring costs
short-term deposit. The gross gains and losses reflected in the
Under IFRS, restructuring costs incurred following acquisitionsare
consolidated income statement in respect of marketable securities
charged to the profit and loss account post acquisition. For USGAAP
were £11million and £nil, respectively (2005 – £7 million and £nil).
purposes, certain of these costsarerecognised as liabilities upon
acquisition in the opening balance sheet. Pensions and other post-retirement benefits
The key differencebetween IFRS and USGAAP is the method of
Other restructuring costs are recorded as a provision under IFRS
recognition of actuarial gains and losses. GSK has opted under IFRS
when a restructuring plan has been announced. Under USGAAP,
to recognise actuarial gains and lossesin the statement of recognised
a provision may only be recognised when further criteria are met or
income and expense in the year in which they arise. Under USGAAP
the liability is incurred. Therefore adjustments have been made
actuarial gains and losses are recognised using the 10% corridor
to eliminateprovisions for restructuring costs that do notmeet US
approach and deferred actuarial gains and losses are amortised.
GAAPrequirements.
Stock-based compensation
Marketable securities
Under IFRS 2 ‘Share-basedPayment’, share options are fair valued at
Marketable securities consist primarily of equity securities and certain
their grant dates and the cost is charged to the income statement over
other liquid investments, principally government bonds and short-
the relevant vesting periods. Under USGAAP, the Group applies SFAS
term corporate debt instruments.Under SFAS 115 ‘Accounting for
123R ‘Share-Based Payment’ and related accounting interpretations
CertainInvestments inDebt andEquitySecurities’, these securities
in accounting for its option plans, which also require options to be fair
are considered available for sale and are carried at fair value, with the
valued at their grant date andcharged tothe income statement over
unrealised gains and losses, net of tax, recorded as a separate
the vesting period of the options. Minor differences arise as a result
component of shareholders’ equity. Under IFRS,these are accounted
of the differing definitions of grant date for certain share-based
for as available-for-sale financial assetsin accordance with IAS39
payments and in the accounting treatment of share optionswith
‘FinancialInstruments :Recognition andMeasurement’.
certainconditions linked to inflation, which are classified as liabilities
The accounting treatment for marketable securities under USGAAP under SFAS123R.
and IFRS issimilar. However, differences do arise, principally as a result
Derivative instruments
of the category of marketable securities as defined by SFAS 115 being
SFAS 133, ‘Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
smaller than the category of available-for-sale financial assets as
Activities’, as amended by SFAS 137 and SFAS 138 and as interpreted
defined by IAS 39. Investments which are not marketable securities
by the Derivatives Implementation Group, was adopted by the Group
under the SFAS115 definition are accounted for at cost less
with effect from 1st January 2001. SFAS 133 establishes accounting
impairments under USGAAP rather than at fair value.
and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
The Group did not adopt IAS39 until 1st January 2005, and, in derivative instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively,
accordance with the exemption available under IFRS1, has presented referred to as derivatives) and for hedging activities. SFAS 133 requires
financial instruments in the comparative periods in accordance with that an entity recognise all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in
UKGAAP. Therefore in 2004these securities are stated at the lower the consolidated balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair
of cost and net realisable value. value. Changes in fair value over the period are recorded in current
earnings unless hedge accounting is obtained. SFAS 133 prescribes
Marketable securities are reviewed at leasteveryquarterfor other
requirements for designation and documentation of hedging
than temporary impairment. For equity securities, the factors
relationships and ongoing assessments of effectiveness in order to
considered include:
qualify for hedge accounting.
•the investee’s current financial performance and future prospects
The Group also evaluates contracts for ‘embedded’ derivatives. In
•the general market condition of the geographic or industry area in
accordance with SFAS 133 requirements, if embedded derivatives are
which the investee operates
not clearly and closely related to the host contract, they are accounted
•the duration and extent to which the market value has been
for separately from the host contract as derivatives.
below cost.
The key differences between IFRS under which the Group’s financial
Gross unrealised gains and losses on marketable securities were £142
statements are prepared and USGAAP, and in the Group’s application
million andless than £1million, respectively, at 31st December 2006
of their respective requirements, are:
(2005 – £36 million and £4 million, respectively). The fair value of
marketable securities with unrealised losses at 31st December 2006 •certain derivatives which are designated by the Group as hedging
is £3million (2005 – £62 million).All of these marketable securities instruments under IAS 39 are not designated as hedging
have been in a continuous loss position for less than 12 months. instruments under SFAS 133. Accordingly, hedge accounting is not
Deferred tax provided against unrealised gains and losses at 31st applied under USGAAP in respect of these arrangements
December 2006 was £21million (2005 – £4 million). Gains of £8
million were reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive
income into the income statement on disposals of equity investments
during the year (2005 – £7 million gain).
GSK Annual Report 2006
140
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continuedNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles Other
continued The following adjustments are also included in the reconciliations:
•the definition of derivatives within the scope of SFAS133 excludes •computer software – under IFRS, the Group capitalises costs incurred
instruments for which there is no liquid market. This leads to certain in acquiring and developing computer software for internal use
items not being recognised on the balance sheet, although they are where the software supports a significant business system and the
accounted for as derivatives under IFRS, most notably the call option expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset. For US GAAP,
over Theravance shares the Group applies SOP 98-1, ‘Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use’, which restricts
•IAS 39 has an exemption from the requirement to recognise
the categories of costs which can be capitalised
embedded foreign currency derivatives where the currency is
commonly used in the economic environment of the host contract. •variable interest entities – under the FASB’s Interpretation No. 46
SFAS 133 does not grant a similar exemption and so the Group Revised (FIN 46R), ‘Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities’, certain
identifies and separately accounts for more embedded derivatives entities, known as Variable Interest Entities (VIEs), must be
under US GAAP than it does under IFRS. consolidated by the ‘primary beneficiary’ of the entity. The primary
beneficiary is generally defined as having the majority of the risks
In 2005 the Group exercised the exemption available under IFRS1 to
and rewards arising from the VIE. Additionally, for VIEs in which a
present financial instruments in the comparative periods in accordance
significant, but not majority, variable interest is held, certain
with UKGAAP. Under UKGAAP, some derivative instruments used for
disclosures are required. The Groupregularlyreviewspotential VIEs
hedges were not recognised on the balance sheet and the matching
and, as a consequence,consolidated Theravance Inc. between May
principle was used to match the gain or loss under these hedging
2004 and February 2006 (see Note (c) on page147). No other VIEs
contracts to the foreign currency transaction or profits to which they
of which the Group is the primary beneficiary have been identified
related.Gains and losses related to the fair value adjustments on these
derivative instruments are therefore reconciling itemsin the 2004 •fixed asset and inventory impairments – reversals of impairments
comparative period presented in the reconciliation of profit.In 2006 previously recorded against the carrying value of assets are permitted
and 2005, the Group did not designate any of its derivatives as under IFRS in certain circumstances. USGAAP does not permit
qualifying hedge instruments under SFAS133. reversals of these impairments
Hedging arrangements under USGAAP •various other small adjustments.
As at 31st December 2006, the Group applied $500 million of
Consolidated summary statement of cash flows
borrowings (2005 – $1 billion) to hedge the foreign currency
The USGAAP cash flow statement reportsthree categories of cash
exposures of the Group’s net investment in certain foreign operations.
flows: operating activities (including tax and interest); investing
These borrowings are designated as hedges of net investments. The
activities (including capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals
effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges
together with cash flows from available-for-sale current asset
is recorded as part of the foreign currency translation component of
investments); andfinancing activities (including dividends paid). A
other comprehensive income. In 2006, £32 million of after tax gains
summary statement ofcash flows is presented on page144.
(2005 – £42 million of after tax losses) were recorded in other
comprehensive income. Comprehensive income statement
The requirement of SFAS 130, ‘Reporting comprehensive income’, to
Valuation of derivative instruments
provide a comprehensive income statement is met under IFRS by the
The fair value of derivative instruments is sensitive to movements in
Statement of recognised income and expense (page89).
the underlying market rates and variables. The Group monitors the
fair value of derivative instruments on at least a quarterly basis. Recent pronouncements
Derivatives, including interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps, Share-based payment
are valued using standard valuation models, counterparty valuations, On 1st January 2006, the Group adopted SFAS123R, ‘Share-Based
or third party valuations. Standard valuation models used by the Payment’ using the modified prospective application method. Prior to
Group consider relevant discount rates, the market yield curve on the this, GSK applied the fair value provisions of SFAS123, ‘Accounting
valuation date, forward currency exchange rates and counterparty for Stock-Based Compensation’ in accounting for employee share-
risk. All significant rates and variables are obtained from market based compensation awards.The adoption of SFAS123Rhad the
sources. All valuations are based on the remaining term to maturity following impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements:
of the instrument.
•Under SFAS123, the Group had elected to account for the forfeiture
Foreign exchange contracts are valued using forward rates observed of non-vested stock options as incurred. As a result of adopting
from quoted prices in the relevant markets when possible. The Group SFAS123R, the Group is now required to estimate total forfeitures
assumes parties to long-term contracts are economically viable but at the grant date, and revise its estimate throughout the vesting
reserves the right to exercise early termination rights if economically period. The impact ofestimating the levelof option forfeitures in
beneficial when such rights exist in the contract. advance of actual occurrence reduces the cumulative compensation
cost recognised in respect of options outstanding at the date of
Dividends
adoption of SFAS123R of 1st January 2006 by £19 million (£12
Under IFRS, GSK plc’s quarterly dividends are recognised only on
million net of tax). This has been recognised as a cumulative effect
payment. Under USGAAP, the dividends are recognised in the
of a change in accounting principle
financial statements when they are declared.
GSK Annual Report 2006
141
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles The Group adopted SFAS158in 2006 and has initially recognised the
continued funded status of the defined benefit post-retirement plan and
provided the required disclosures at 31st December 2006.
•Under SFAS123R share options whose vesting is indexed to a factor
Retrospective application was not permitted,therefore in 2005 and
that is not a market, performance or service condition are classified
2004 actuarial gains and losses were recognised using the 10%
as liabilities on the balance sheet and remeasured to fair value at
corridor approach and deferred actuarial gains and losses
each reporting date. Accordingly, share options granted by GSK
were amortised.
with a condition linked to inflation are accounted for as liabilities
under USGAAP. Under IFRS, these options are accounted for as The impact of the adoption of SFAS158 on theGroup’s consolidated
equity-settled share-based payments,sotheir fair value is measured financial statementsis disclosed in note (f) within thisNote.
at grant date only andthis isrecognised over the vesting period in
Accounting for uncertain tax positions
shareholders’ funds. The impact of accounting for options
In July 2006, the FASB issuedFIN 48, ‘Accounting for Uncertain Tax
outstanding at 1st January 2006 on the revisedUSGAAPbasis
Positions’. FIN48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income
increases the cumulative compensation cost recognised by £3
taxes recognised in an enterprise’s financial statements under US
million (£2 million net of tax). This has been recognised as a
GAAP, in accordance with SFAS109, ‘Accounting for Income Taxes’.
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle
The interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and
•Under SFAS123, the Group allocated share option compensation measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and
expense based on the nominal vesting period, rather than the measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax
expected time to achieve retirement eligibility. SFAS123R specifies return. FIN48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification,
that a share-based award is considered vested for expense interest and penalties, disclosure and transition.The Group is currently
attribution purposes when the employee’s retention of the award evaluatingthe potential impacts of FIN48 on its USGAAP financial
is no longer contingent upon providing subsequent service. statements. For the Group, the interpretation will be effectivefrom
Accordingly, the Group has prospectively revised its expense 1st January 2007.
attribution method so that the related compensation cost is
Other Pronouncements
recognised over the period from the grant date to the date
retirement eligibility is achieved, if less than the stated vesting period. •SFAS157 – In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS157, ‘Fair
The impact of this change was not significant. Value Measurements’. This Statement defines fair value, establishes
a framework for measuring fair value in USGAAP, and expands
For the year ended 31st December 2006, compensation expense for
disclosures about fair value measurements. TheStatementrefers to
all types of share-based payment arrangements and the related
other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value
income tax benefit recognised was £252million and £26million,
measurements, the FASB having previously concluded in those
respectively. Had the Group continued to account for compensation
accounting pronouncements that fair value is the relevant
expense under the fair value provisions of SFAS123, the
measurement attribute.This Statement does not require any new
compensation expense would not have been materially different
fair value measurements. For the Group, the Statement will be
from the SFAS123R expense for the year.
effective on 1st January 2008
At 31st December 2006, GSK had approximately £288million of total
unrecognised compensation cost related to non-vested share-based •SFAS 159 – In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS159, ‘The Fair
compensation arrangements granted under the plans, of which £135 Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities’. This
million relates to share option schemes. The total cost is expected to Statement permitsentities to choose to elect, at specified election
be recognised over a weighted-average period of1.9years, and1.8 dates, to measure eligible financial instruments at fair value.
years for share option schemes. Unrealised gains and losses on items for which the fair value option
has been elected would be reported in net income at each
The tax benefit realised from share options exercised during 2006
subsequent reporting date, andupfront costs and fees related to
was £54million.
those items would be recognised in net incomeas incurred and not
Pensions and other post retirement benefits deferred. The Group is unlikely to elect to exercise the Fair
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS158, ‘Employers’ Value Option
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post-retirement
Plans’. SFAS158 requires GSKto (i) recognise the overfunded or •SAB 108 – In September 2006, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting
underfunded status of a defined benefit plan (other than a multi- Bulletin No. 108. SAB108 establishes a dual approach for qualifying
employer plan) as an asset or liability with changes in that funded financial statement errors, requiring evaluationof errors under both
status recognised through comprehensive income; (ii) measure the the iron curtain and the roll-over methods. The guidance applies to
funded status of a plan as of the year-end date; and (iii) provide the Group’s USGAAP financial information for 2006 and
additional disclosures. accordingly hasbeen adopted by the Group. SAB108 has had no
impact on the USGAAPfinancial information presented in this Note.
GSK Annual Report 2006
142
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders’ funds which would be required if US GAAP had been applied
instead of IFRS.
2006 2005 2004
Profit Notes £m £m £m
Profit after taxation for the year under IFRS 5,498 4,816 4,022
Profit attributable to minority interests (109) (127) (114)
Profit attributable to shareholders under IFRS 5,389 4,689 3,908
USGAAP adjustments:
Goodwill impairment 10 – –
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets b (1,276) (1,584) (1,441)
Acquisition and disposal of product rights b (111) (72) (210)
Write-off of in-process R&D acquired in business combinations b (14) (26) –
Depreciation and impairment of other assets (93) (40) (2)
Capitalised interest 4 (1) (17)
Disposal of interests in associates and subsidiaries – – (97)
Investments (10) (2) (30)
Pensions and post-retirement benefits f (171) (127) (126)
Stock-based compensation (26) 6 13
Derivative instruments and hedging 477 (30) 33
Fair value of put option granted to minority shareholders c – – 17
Restructuringcosts (16) 1 (12)
Tax benefits on exercise of stock options d 16 (47) (10)
Deferred taxation d 276 585 757
Other – (16) (51)
Net income under USGAAPbefore cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 4,455 3,336 2,732
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 10 – –
Net income under US GAAP 4,465 3,336 2,732
2006 2005 2004
Earnings per share under USGAAP p p p
Basic net income per sharebefore cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 78.9 58.8 47.6
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle per share 0.2 – –
Basic net income per share after cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 79.1 58.8 47.6
Diluted net income per share before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 78.2 58.3 47.5
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle per share 0.2 – –
Diluted net income per share after cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 78.4 58.3 47.5
2006 2005 2004
Earnings per ADS under USGAAP $ $ $
Basic net income per ADS before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 2.92 2.14 1.74
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle per ADS 0.01 – –
Basic net income per ADS after cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 2.93 2.14 1.74
Diluted net income per ADS before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 2.89 2.12 1.74
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle per ADS 0.01 – –
Diluted net income per ADS after cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 2.90 2.12 1.74
GSK Annual Report 2006
143
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2006 2005
Equity shareholders’ funds Notes £m £m
Total equity under IFRS 9,648 7,570
Minority interests (262) (259)
Shareholders’ equity under IFRS 9,386 7,311
USGAAPadjustments:
Goodwill a 17,949 17,976
Product rights b 10,634 12,065
Pension intangible asset f – 86
Fixed assets (35) 33
Inventory impairment reversals (54) (30)
Capitalised interest 183 179
Investments 500 576
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits f 35 1,163
Restructuring costs 39 65
Derivative instruments (44) (33)
Dividends (676) (568)
Deferred taxation e (3,262) (4,531)
Other (2) (10)
Shareholders’ equity under US GAAP 34,653 34,282
2006 2005 2004 Consolidated statement of cash flows under USGAAP £m £m £m
Net cash provided by operating activities 4,163 5,751 4,618
Net cash used in investing activities (1,752) (1,843) (988)
Net cash used in financing activities (4,345) (2,409) (3,038)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (1,934) 1,499 592
Exchange rate movements (282) 237 (93)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 4,221 2,485 1,986
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,005 4,221 2,485
GSK Annual Report 2006
144
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Notes to the Profit and Equity shareholders’ funds reconciliations
(a) Goodwill
The following tables set out the IFRS to USGAAP adjustments required to the IFRS balance sheet in respect of goodwill.
2006 2005
Balance sheet £m £m
Goodwill under IFRS 758 696
Goodwill under USGAAP 18,707 18,672
IFRS to USGAAP adjustments 17,949 17,976
Of the £18,707millionUSGAAP goodwill balance at 31st December 2006(2005 – £18,672 million), £15,875million (2005 – £15,875 million)
is in respect of the goodwill arising on the acquisition of SmithKline Beecham by Glaxo Wellcome in 2000.
The following tablepresentsthe changes in goodwill allocated to the Group’s reportable segments:
Consumer
Pharmaceuticals Healthcare Total
£m £m £m
At 1st January 2005 15,672 2,449 18,121
Additions 528 – 528
Disposals (1) – (1)
Exchange adjustments 5 19 24
At 31st December 2005 16,204 2,468 18,672
Additions 16 116 132
Exchange adjustments (76) (21) (97)
At 31st December 2006 16,144 2,563 18,707
(b) Intangible assets
The following tables set out the IFRSto USGAAP adjustments required to the IFRS income statement and balance sheet in respect of
intangible assets:
2006 2005 2004
Income statement £m £m £m
Amortisation charge under IFRS 139 109 75
Amortisation charge under USGAAP 1,454 1,674 1,516
IFRSto USGAAP adjustment for amortisation 1,315 1,565 1,441
Impairment charge under IFRS 80 99 26
Impairment charge under USGAAP 41 118 26
IFRS to USGAAP adjustment for impairment (39) 19 –
In addition to the above adjustments for amortisation and impairments, further IFRS to USGAAP adjustments arose during the year of £125
million (2005 – £98 million; 2004 – £173 million) in respect of the acquisition and disposal of in-process R&D, licences, patents etc. which are
capitalised under IFRS but charged directly to research and development expense under USGAAP, and £nil(2005 – £nil; 2004 – £37 million)
in respect of disposals of product rights which have a higher carrying value under USGAAP than under IFRS.
GSK Annual Report 2006
145
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGSK Annual Report 2006
146
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2006 2005
Balance sheet £m £m
Product rights intangible assets under IFRS 3,046 3,120
Product rights intangible assets under USGAAP 13,680 15,185
Net IFRSto USGAAPadjustmentforproduct rights intangible assets 10,634 12,065
Product rights intangible assets under USGAAP are analysed as follows:
Acquired products, Brands subject Indefinite
licences, patents, etc. to amortisation lived brands Total
2006 £m £m £m £m
Cost 21,249 1,096 4,811 27,156
Accumulated amortisation
and impairment (12,606) (210) (660) (13,476)
Carrying value 8,643 886 4,151 13,680
2005
Cost 21,369 1,096 4,722 27,187
Accumulated amortisation
and impairment (11,187) (185) (630) (12,002)
Carrying value 10,182 911 4,092 15,185
The acquired products, licencesandpatents are pharmaceutical products, principally arising from the acquisition of SmithKline Beecham plc,
and consumer healthcare products with book values net of accumulated amortisation and impairment as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Avandia 3,492 3,841
Seroxat/Paxil 940 1,410
Augmentin 966 1,142
Fluviral 571 683
Havrix 338 363
Infanrix 275 294
Fraxiparine 222 239
Twinrix 219 235
Engerix-B 209 224
Hycamtin 177 212
Coreg 122 240
Others 1,112 1,299
Acquired products, licences, patents etc.intangible assets under USGAAP 8,643 10,182
The indefinite lived brands relate to a large number of Consumer Healthcare products, principally arising from the acquisitions of SmithKline
Beecham plc (including products previously acquired by SmithKline Beecham from Sterling Winthrop Inc.) and the Block Drug Company, with
book values as follows:
2006 2005
£m £m
Panadol 683 730
Aquafresh 347 347
Lucozade 324 324
Horlicks 319 319
Ribena 309 309
Nicorette 292 292
Odol 228 228
Tums 226 226
Nicoderm 224 224
Sensodyne 216 225
Others 983 868
Indefinite lived brands intangible assets under US GAAP 4,151 4,092GSK Annual Report 2006
147
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles (c) Theravance
continued In May 2004, the Group formed a strategic alliance with Theravance
Inc. to develop and commercialise novel medicines across a variety of
Each of these brands is considered to have an indefinite life, given the
important therapeutic areas. Under the terms of the alliance,
strength and durability of the brand and the level of marketing
Theravance received $129 million, a significant part of which related
support. The brands are in relatively stable and profitable market
to the Group’s purchase of Theravance shares. The Group has a call
sectors, and their size, diversification and market shares mean that the
option in 2007 to further increase its ownership to over 50% at a
risk of market-related factors causing a shortening of the brands’ lives
significant premium to the price paid in the 2004 transaction.
is considered to be relatively low. The Group is not aware of any
Theravance’s other shareholders have a put option at a lower exercise
material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other
price to cause GlaxoSmithKline to acquire up to half of the
factor which could limit their useful lives. Accordingly, they are not
outstanding stock in 2007. Given the maximum number of shares
amortised. Each brand is tested annually for impairment applying a
subject to the put option, the Group’s obligation is capped at $525
fair value less costs to sell methodology and using five year post-tax
million. The Group has an exclusive option to license potential new
cash flow forecasts with a terminal value calculation and applying a
medicines from all of Theravance’s programmes until August 2007.
discount rate of the Group post-tax weighted average cost of capital
Upon exercising its option over a Theravance programme, the Group
of 8%, adjusted where appropriate for country-specific risks.
will be responsible for the relevant development, manufacturing and
The carrying values of certain intangibles subject to amortisation were commercialisation activities. Depending on the success of such
reviewed and an impairment of £6 million (2005 – £68 million) has programmes, Theravance will receive clinical, regulatory and
been recorded. Of this, £6 million (2005 – £46 million) relates to commercial milestone payments and royalties on the subsequent sales
pharmaceutical products and £nil (2005 – £22 million) to Consumer of medicines. Based on the assessment performed in May 2004, the
Healthcare products. An impairment charge in respect of Consumer Group was the primary beneficiary of Theravance, as defined by FIN
Healthcare intangible assets not subject to amortisation of £35 million 46R, and as a result Theravance was consolidated into the Group’s US
was recognised during 2006 (2005 – £50 million). GAAP financial statements from that date. The net assets acquired
were measured at fair value. The principal adjustment to the carrying
As discussed in Note 43 ‘Legal proceedings’, a number of distributors
value of the net assets in Theravance’s balance sheet prior to the
of generic drugs have filed applications to market generic versions of
acquisition was recognition of in-process research and development
a number of the Group’s products prior to the expiration of the
(IPR&D) at a valuation of £273 million. The IPR&Dwas written off
Group’s patents. If generic versions of products are launched in future
immediately after the acquisition in accordance with USGAAP
periods at earlier dates than the Group currently expects, impairments
purchase accounting.
of the carrying value of the products may arise.
In February 2006, Theravance completed a secondary offering of
The estimated future amortisation expense for the next five years for
common stock, which is a reconsideration event as defined by FIN
intangible assets subject to amortisation as of 31st December 2006 is
46R. The assessment at this date indicated that the Group is no longer
as follows:
the primary beneficiary of Theravance’s variable interests. Accordingly,
Year £m Theravance has been de-consolidated from the Group’s results under
USGAAP since February 2006.
2007 1,424
2008 1,241 Additionally, the Group previously accounted for the Theravance put
2009 865 option discussed above in accordance with SFAS 150, ‘Accounting for
2010 846 Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities
2011 815 and Equity’, which requires the Group to record the fair value of the
put option as a liability. Since Theravance ceased to be a subsidiary of
Total 5,191
the Group under FIN46R in February 2006, the put option has been
In-process R&D of £14 million (2005 – £26 million; 2004 – £nil) arising accounted for in accordance with SFAS 133, ‘Accounting for
on the acquisitions of CNS and Pliva in 2006 and IDBiomedical and Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities’. This also requires the
Corixa in 2005 has been written off. This has been valued on the fair value of the put option to be recorded as a liability. The fair value
same basis as the other intangible assets acquired and relates to of the Theravance put option at 31st December 2006 is £10 million
various development projects in the pre-approval stage where the (2005 – £47 million). In accordance with SFAS 133, the call option is
technological feasibility of the projects had not been established at the not recognised in the financial statements as it is not readily
point of acquisition. convertible into cash.GSK Annual Report 2006
148
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
(d) Taxation
2006 2005 2004
Total tax expense £m £m £m
IFRS:
Current tax expense 2,710 2,019 1,667
Deferred tax (credit)/expense (409) (103) 90
Total tax expense 2,301 1,916 1,757
US GAAP:
Current tax expense 2,735 2,103 1,717
Deferred tax credit (685) (688) (667)
Total tax expense 2,050 1,415 1,050
IFRSto USGAAP adjustments:
Current tax expense 25 84 50
Deferred tax credit (276) (585) (757)
Total tax expense (251) (501) (707)
The IFRS to USGAAP adjustment in respect of current tax expense includes £41million (2005 – £37 million; 2004 – £40 million) for the Group’s
share of the tax expense of associates. This is recognised in the Taxation charge in the income statement under USGAAP but recorded in Share
of after tax profits of associates in the income statement presented in accordance with IFRS.
(e) Deferred taxation under USGAAP
2006 2005
£m £m
Liabilities
Stock valuation adjustment (44) (42)
Other timing differences 20 63
Current deferred taxation liabilities (24) 21
Accelerated capital allowances (564) (187)
Product rights (3,563) (4,035)
Product and business disposals (1) 13
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 317 25
Tax losses 80 –
Legal and other disputes 6 –
Manufacturing restructuring 37 –
Share option and award schemes 62 –
Other timing differences 8 25
Valuation allowances (46) –
Total deferred taxation liabilities (3,688) (4,138)
Assets
Intra-Group profit 696 619
Stock valuation adjustment (28) (72)
Other timing differences 360 614
Current deferred taxation assets 1,028 1,161
Accelerated capital allowances (33) (492)
Productrights (49) (9)
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 410 43
Tax losses 1,205 125
Restructuring 26 53
Legal and other disputes 147 160
Share option and award schemes 233 276
Other timing differences 128 (3)
Valuation allowances (1,141) (62)
Total deferred taxation assets 1,954 1,252GSK Annual Report 2006
149
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
(e) Deferred taxation under USGAAP continued
2006 2005
£m £m
Net deferred taxation under US GAAP (1,734) (2,886)
Net deferred taxation under IFRS 1,528 1,645
IFRS to USGAAP adjustment (3,262) (4,531)
(f) Pensions and post-retirement costs under USGAAP
2006 2005 2004
£m £m £m
UK pension schemes 258 218 225
US pension schemes 61 55 54
Other overseas pension schemes 102 87 77
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 127 114 96
Post-employment costs 1 2 18
549 476 470
Analysed as:
Funded defined benefit/hybrid schemes 363 306 298
Unfunded defined benefit schemes 30 29 37
Defined contribution schemes 28 25 21
Unfunded post-retirement healthcare schemes 127 114 96
Post-employment costs 1 2 18
549 476 470
The disclosures below include the additional information required by SFAS 132R and SFAS 158. The pension costs of the UK, US and major
overseas defined benefit pension plans have been restated in the following tables in accordance with US GAAP. Minor retirement plans with
pension costs in 2006 of £5 million (2005 – £8 million; 2004 – £5 million), have not been recalculated in accordance with the requirements
of SFAS 87, and have been excluded.
2006 2005 2004
Net periodic pension cost for the major retirement plans £m £m £m
Service cost 247 223 213
Interest cost 448 408 400
Expected return on plan assets (491) (444) (431)
Amortisation of prior service cost 16 13 14
Amortisation of transition obligation 2 2 2
Amortisation of net actuarial loss 146 107 115
Net periodic pension cost under US GAAP 368 309 313
Termination benefits and curtailment costs 19 19 13
The assumptions used under IAS 19 within Note26, are similar to those disclosed in the following table, which are presented on a weighted
average basis.
2006 2005 2004
Major assumptions used in computing pension costs % pa % pa % pa
Rates of future pay increases 4.25 4.00 4.25
Discount rate 5.00 4.75 5.25
Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets 6.75 6.75 7.00
In aggregate, average international plan assumptions did not vary significantly from US assumptions.
Estimated future benefit payments £m
2007 355
2008 368
2009 385
2010 400
2011 416
2012–2016 2,386GSK Annual Report 2006
150
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2006 2005
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at 1st January (9,997) (8,171)
Amendments (36) (1)
Service cost (247) (223)
Interest cost (448) (408)
Plan participants’ contributions (14) (15)
Actuarial loss (43) (1,334)
Benefits paid 368 372
Termination benefits and curtailment costs (17) (15)
Exchange adjustments 263 (202)
Benefit obligation at 31st December (10,171) (9,997)
Benefit obligation at 31st December for pension plans with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets (6,643) (8,748)
The accumulated benefit obligation at 31st December 2006 was £9,385million (2005 – £9,294 million).
2006 2005
Change in plan assets £m £m
Fair value of plan assets at 1st January 8,298 6,690
Actual return on plan assets 867 1,113
Employer contributions 592 661
Plan participants’ contributions 14 15
Benefits paid (368) (372)
Exchange adjustments (262) 191
Fair value of plan assets at 31st December 9,141 8,298
Fair value of plan assets at end of year for pension plans with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets 6,214 7,735
Plan assets consist primarily of investments in UK and overseas equities, fixed interest securities, index-linked securities and property. At 31st
December 2006 UK equities included0.1million GSK shares (2005 – 1.9 million shares) with a market value of £1million (2005 – £28 million).
An analysis of theproportionsof total plan assets for each major category is disclosed in Note26. Thatanalysis includes assets valued at £125
million in minor retirement plans, which have been excluded from these USGAAP tables.
2006 2005
Funded statusbefore adoption of SFAS158 £m £m
Funded status (1,030) (1,699)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 1,966 2,499
Unrecognised prior service cost 81 60
Unrecognised transition obligation 16 21
Net amount recognisedbefore adoption of SFAS158 1,033 881
2006 2005
Amounts recognised in the statement of financial positionbefore adoption of SFAS158 £m £m
Prepaid benefit cost 423 8
Accrued pension liability (460) (1,027)
Intangible asset 100 86
Accumulated other comprehensive income 970 1,814
Net amount recognisedbefore adoption of SFAS158 1,033 881GSK Annual Report 2006
151
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
Before Incremental After
adoption effect adoption
of SFAS158 of SFAS158 of SFAS158
Amount recognised in the statement of financial position £m £m £m
Prepaid/accrued (37) (993) (1,030)
Intangible asset 100 (100) –
Deferred tax asset 319 – 319
Accumulatedother comprehensive income, net of deferred tax 651 1,093 1,744
At 31st December 2006 1,033 – 1,033
Total
Amountsestimated to be recognised in net periodic pension cost in 2007 £m
Net actuarial loss 108
Prior service cost 17
Transition obligation 2
127
Post-retirement healthcare under USGAAP
The post-retirement healthcare costs of the UK, US and major overseas post-retirement healthcare schemes have been restated in the following
tables in accordance with USGAAP. Minor healthcare plans with costs in 2006 of £8million (2005 – £5 million; 2004 – £nil) have not been
recalculated and have been excluded.
2006 2005 2004
Net healthcare cost £m £m £m
Service cost 35 37 32
Interest cost 62 57 55
Amortisation of prior service cost (1) (2) (1)
Amortisation of net actuarial loss 22 15 11
Net healthcare cost 118 107 97
The major assumptions used in calculating the net healthcare cost were: %pa %pa %pa
Rate of future healthcare inflation 9.25 to 5.0 10.0 to 5.0 9.0 to 5.0
Discount rate 5.75 5.50 5.75
2006 2005
Change in benefit obligation £m £m
Benefit obligation at 1st January 1,211 965
Amendments (16) –
Service cost 35 37
Interest cost 62 57
Plan participants’ contributions 8 8
Actuarial (gain)/loss (117) 82
Benefits paid (53) (43)
Exchange (102) 105
Benefit obligation at 31st December 1,028 1,211
Change in plan assets
Fair value of plan assets at 1st January – –
Employer and plan participants’ contributions 53 43
Benefits paid (53) (43)
Fair value of plan assets at 31st December – –GSK Annual Report 2006
152
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
41Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued
2006 2005
Funded status before adoption of SFAS158 £m £m
Funded status (1,028) (1,211)
Unrecognised net actuarial loss 265 450
Unrecognised prior service cost (27) (14)
Accrued post-retirement healthcare cost before adoption of SFAS158 (790) (775)
Amount recognised in the statement of financial position before adoption of SFAS158
Accrued benefit cost (790) (775)
Accrued post-retirement healthcare cost before adoption of SFAS158 (790) (775)
Before Incremental After
adoption effect adoption
of SFAS158 of SFAS158 of SFAS158
Amount recognised in the statement of financial position £m £m £m
Prepaid/accrued (790) (238) (1,028)
Deferred tax asset 408 – 408
Accumulatedother comprehensive income, net of deferred tax (408) 238 (170)
At 31st December 2006 (790) – (790)
Total
Amountsestimated to be recognised in net periodic pension cost in 2007 £m
Net actuarial loss 13
Prior service cost (2)
11
1% decrease 1% increase
Impact of a 1% variation in the assumed rate of future healthcare inflation £m £m
Effect on total service and interest cost for post-retirement healthcare (7) 8
Effect on obligation for post-retirement healthcare (75) 89
Medicare
Gross subsidy Net
Estimated future benefit payments £m £m £m
2007 46 (3) 43
2008 50 (4) 46
2009 55 (4) 51
2010 59 (5) 54
2011 62 (5) 57
2012-2016 354 (33) 321STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
42Principal Group companies
The following represent the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the GlaxoSmithKline Group at 31stDecember 2006. Details
are given of the principal country of operation, the location of the headquarters, the business segment and the business activities. The equity
share capital of these undertakings is wholly owned by the Group except where its percentage interest is shown otherwise. All companies are
incorporated in their principal country of operation except where stated.
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
England Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One)Limited Ph,CH h
Brentford +GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited Ph,CH s
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc Ph,CH f
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Capital plc Ph f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham p.l.c. Ph,CH d e h m p r
Brentford Wellcome Limited Ph,CH h
Greenford Glaxo Group Limited Ph h
Greenford Glaxo Operations UK Limited Ph p
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome International B.V.(i) Ph,CH h
Brentford Glaxo Wellcome Investments B.V.(i) Ph,CH h
Stockley Park Glaxo Wellcome UK Limited Ph h m p
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Export Limited Ph e
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline Research & Development Limited Ph d r
Brentford GlaxoSmithKline UKLimited Ph m p
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (Investments) Limited Ph,CH f
Brentford SmithKline Beecham (SWG) Limited CH e m
Brentford Setfirst Limited Ph,CH h
Greenford The Wellcome Foundation Limited Ph p
Austria Vienna GlaxoSmithKline Pharma G.m.b.H Ph m
Belgium Genval GlaxoSmithKline S.A. Ph m
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals S.A. Ph d e m p r
Rixensart GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals Manufacturing S.A. Ph h
Czech Republic Prague GlaxoSmithKlines.r.o. Ph,CH m
Denmark Ballerup GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare A/S CH m
Brøndby GlaxoSmithKline Pharma A/S Ph m
Finland Espoo GlaxoSmithKline Oy Ph m
France Marly le Roi Groupe GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph h
Marly le Roi Laboratoire GlaxoSmithKline S.A.S. Ph m
Marly le Roi Glaxo Wellcome Production S.A.S. Ph m p
Marly le Roi GlaxoSmithKline Sante Grand Public S.A.S. CH m
Germany Buehl GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare GmbH & Co. KG CH d h m p r s
Munich GlaxoSmithKlinePharma GmbH Ph h
Greece Athens GlaxoSmithKline A.E.B.E Ph,CH h m
Guernsey St. Peter Port SmithKline Beecham Limited Ph,CH i
St. Peter Port Setfirst (No.2)Limited Ph,CH h
Hungary Budapest GlaxoSmithKlineMedicine and Healthcare Products Limited Ph,CH e m
Italy Verona GlaxoSmithKline S.p.A. Ph d h m r
Milan GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.p.A. CH h m
Luxembourg Mamer GlaxoSmithKline International (Luxembourg) S.A. Ph,CH f h
GSK Annual Report 2006
153STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continued
42Principal Group companies continued
Europe Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Netherlands Zeist GlaxoSmithKline B.V. Ph m
Zeist GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare B.V. CH m
Norway Oslo GlaxoSmithKline AS Ph m
Poland Poznan GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals S.A. Ph m p 97
Poznan GSK Services Sp.z.o.o Ph m
Warsaw GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Sp.z.o.o. CH m e
Portugal Alges GlaxoSmithKline-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Limitada Ph m
Republic of Carrigaline SmithKline Beecham (Cork) Limited(ii) Ph p
Ireland Carrigaline GlaxoSmithKline Trading Services Limited(ii) Ph e
Dublin GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare (Ireland) Limited (ii) CH m
Russian Moscow GlaxoSmithKline Trading Ph m
Federation
Spain Madrid GlaxoSmithKlineS.A. Ph m p
Madrid GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare S.A. CH m
Sweden Solna GlaxoSmithKline AB Ph m
Switzerland Muenchenbuchsee GlaxoSmithKline AG Ph m
USA
USA Hamilton Corixa Corporation Ph m p
Minneapolis CNS,Inc. CH m p
Philadelphia SmithKline Beecham Corporation Ph,CH d e h m p r s
Pittsburgh GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, L.P. CH m p 88
Pittsburgh Block Drug Company, Inc. CH h m p
Wilmington GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (Americas) Inc. Ph,CH h
Americas
Bermuda Hamilton GlaxoSmithKline Insurance Ltd Ph,CH i
Canada Mississauga GlaxoSmithKline Inc. Ph m p r
Oakville GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Inc. CH m
Laval IDBiomedical Corporation Ph d m p r
Asia Pacific
Australia Boronia Glaxo Wellcome Australia Pty Ltd Ph,CH d e m p r
China Hong Kong GlaxoSmithKline Limited Ph,CH m
Tianjin Sino-American Tianjin Smith Kline & French Laboratories Ltd Ph d m p r 55
India Mumbai GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals Limited Ph m p 51
Nabha GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare Limited(iii) CH m p 43
Malaysia Petaling Jaya GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceutical Sdn Bhd Ph m
New Zealand Auckland GlaxoSmithKline NZ Limited Ph,CH m
Pakistan Karachi GlaxoSmithKline Pakistan Limited Ph,CH m p e 79
Philippines Makati GlaxoSmithKline Philippines Inc Ph,CH m
Singapore Singapore Glaxo Wellcome Manufacturing Pte Ltd Ph p
Singapore GlaxoSmithKline Pte Ltd Ph m
South Korea Seoul GlaxoSmithKline Korea Ph m p
Taiwan Taipei Glaxo Wellcome Taiwan Limited Ph m p
GSK Annual Report 2006
154Notes to the financial statements
continued
42Principal Group companies continued
Japan Location Subsidiary undertaking Segment Activity %
Japan Tokyo GlaxoSmithKline K.K. Ph,CH d m p r
Latin America
Argentina Buenos Aires GlaxoSmithKline Argentina S.A. Ph,CH m p
Brazil Rio de Janeiro GlaxoSmithKline Brasil Ltda Ph,CH m p
Colombia Bogota GlaxoSmithKline Colombia S.A. Ph,CH m
Mexico Delegacion Tlalpan GlaxoSmithKline MexicoS.A.de C.V. Ph,CH e m p s
Puerto Rico Guaynabo GlaxoSmithKline Puerto Rico Inc. Ph m
San Juan SB Pharmco Puerto Rico Inc. Ph p
Venezuela Caracas GlaxoSmithKline Venezuela C.A. Ph,CH m
Middle East &
Africa
Egypt Cairo GlaxoSmithKline S.A.E Ph m p 91
South Africa Bryanston GlaxoSmithKline South Africa (Pty) Ltd Ph,CH m p
Turkey Istanbul GlaxoSmithKline Ilaclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Ph m p
USA Location Associated undertaking Business %
USA Teterboro Quest Diagnostics Incorporated(iv) Clinical testing 19
i) Incorporated in the Netherlands.
ii) Exempt from the provisions of Section 7 of the Companies (Amendment)Act 1986 (Ireland).
iii) Consolidated as a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with Section 258 (4)(a) of the Companies Act on the grounds of dominant
influence.
iv) Equity accounted on the grounds of significant influence.
+ Directly held wholly owned subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Key
Business segment: Ph Pharmaceuticals, CH Consumer Healthcare
Business activity: d development, e exporting, f finance, h holding company, i insurance, m marketing, p production, r research,s service
Full details of all Group subsidiary and associated undertakings will be attached to the company’s Annual Return to be filed with the Registrar
ofCompanies.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2006
155Notes to the financial statements
continued
43Legal proceedings Avandia and Avandamet
In August 2003, the Group filed an action in the US District Court for
The Group is involved in significant legal and administrative
the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. for
proceedings, principally product liability, intellectual property, tax, anti-
infringement of the Group’s patent relating to the maleate salt form
trust and governmental investigations and related private litigation.
of rosiglitazone, the active ingredient in Avandia, which expires in
The Group makes provision for these proceedings on a regular basis
2015. In September 2003,the Group filed a comparable action in
assummarisedin Notes2and27. The Group may make additional
same court against Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories, alleging infringement of
significant provisions for such legal proceedings as required in the
the same patent. Those actions were filed in response to Abbreviated
event of further developments in these matters, consistent with
New Drug Application (ANDA) filings with the FDA by Dr.Reddy’s
generally accepted accounting principles. Litigation, particularly in the
Laboratories and Teva with certifications that the Group’s maleate salt
USA, is inherently unpredictable and excessive awards that may not
patent is invalid. Teva subsequently filed an additional certification
be justified by the evidence may occur. The Group could in the future
challenging the validity of the Group’s basic compound patent for
incur judgements or enter into settlements of claims that could result
rosiglitazone, and in January 2004 the Group commenced an action
in payments that exceed its current provisions by an amount that
against Teva in the same court for infringement of that patent. The
would have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial
basic compound patent currently expires in 2012 after giving effect
condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.
to patent term restoration and paediatric exclusivity. The actions have
Intellectual property claims include challenges to the validity of the been consolidatedanda trial date set for 6th August 2007 for the
Group’s patents on various products or processes and assertions of Group’s actions against Teva on the basic compound and maleate salt
non-infringement of those patents. A loss in any of these cases could patents and Dr. Reddy’s on the maleate salt patent.
result in loss of patent protection for the product at issue. The
Both Teva and Dr. Reddy’s have tentative FDA approval for all dosage
consequences of any such loss could be a significant decrease in sales
strengths. The Hatch-Waxman stays against final FDAapproval
of that product and could materially affect future results of operations
in respect of the ANDAs filed by both companies expired in
for the Group.
November 2006.
Legal expenses incurred and provisions related to legal claims are
In January 2005, the Group filed an action in the US District Court for
charged to selling, general and administration costs. Provisions are
the District of New Jersey against Teva for infringement of the same
made, after taking appropriate legal and other specialist advice, when
two patents – the basic compound and maleate salt patents for
a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the
rosiglitazone. Teva had filed an ANDA with the FDA for a generic
dispute.Beginning in 2004,the Group has established an actuarially
version of Avandametwith a certification that those patents are invalid
determined provision for product liability claims incurred but not yet
or not infringed. FDA approval of that ANDA is stayed until the earlier
reported as described in Note 27. At 31st December 2006, the
of June 2007 or resolution of the patent infringement action. Since
Group’s aggregate provision for legal and other disputes (not including
Avandametis protected by the same patents as Avandia, any earlier
tax matters described under ‘Taxation’ in Note12)was over £1 billion.
holding of invalidity in the Avandiacases would be dispositive for
The ultimate liability for legal claims may vary from the amounts
Avandametas well.
provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation
proceedings, investigations and possible settlement negotiations. Imitrex
In December 2003, the Group commenced an action in the US District
The most significant of those matters are described below.
Court for the Southern District of New York against Dr. Reddy’s
Intellectual property Laboratories, alleging infringement of one of the two primary
Advair compound patents for sumatriptan, the active ingredient in Imitrex.
In September 2004, the Group applied to the US Patent and The patent at issue affords protection through February 2009 after
Trademark Office (USPTO) for re-issue of its combination patent for giving effect to a grant of paediatric exclusivity by the FDA.
Advair, an inhaled combination of salmeterol and fluticasone The defendant had filed an ANDA with the FDA for sumatriptan oral
propionate, which expires in September 2010. This followed an tablets with a certification of invalidity of that compound patent
internal review which concluded that the language in the patent may but did not certify invalidity or non-infringement of the other
not accurately describe all of the circumstances of the invention and compound patent that expires in June 2007 after giving effect to
may not claim the invention as precisely as it could. The objective of paediatric exclusivity.
seeking re-issuance is to strengthen the protection afforded by the
In March 2004, the Group commenced an infringement action
patent. In January 2007,the Group received a Notice of Allowance
against Cobalt Pharmaceuticals which was transferred to the US
finding the pharmaceutical composition claims patentable. The re-
District Court for the Southern District of New York. The defendant
issued patent will have the same September 2010 expiration date as
had filed an ANDA forsumatriptanoral tablets with a certification of
the original composition patentand will belisted in the register of
invalidity or non-infringement of the same compound patent at issue
pharmaceutical patents maintained by the US Food and Drug
in the Dr.Reddy’s case.
Administration (FDA) (the Orange Book).
In February 2005,the Group commenced an infringement action in
The Group holds other US patents relating to Advair, including various
the US District Court for the District of Delaware against Spectrum
patents relating to the Diskusdevice which expire over a period from
Pharmaceuticals. The defendant had filed an ANDA for injectable
2011 to 2016, and various patents relating to the HFA formulation
sumatriptan with a certification of invalidity or non-infringement of the
and MDI device which expire over a period from 2014 to 2017.
same compound patent at issue in the Dr.Reddy’s and Cobalt cases.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2006
156Notes to the financial statements
continued
43Legal proceedings continued Between 1999 and 2001 the Group filed further actions against
Apotex in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
In October 2006,the Group reacheda settlement agreement with Dr.
for infringement of additional of the Group’s patents. In December
Reddy’s which provides that Dr. Reddy’s may exclusively distribute
2002, the judge granted in part and denied in part summary
authorisedgeneric versions of sumatriptan tablets in the USA with an
judgementmotions filed by Apotex with the result that issues of
expected launch date late in the fourth quarter of 2008. In November
validity and infringement of three of the four new patents remained
2006,the Group reached a settlement with Cobalt which provides
for trial.In July 2004, the judge certified the patent that had been held
that Cobalt may distribute a generic version of sumatriptan tablets in
invalid for appeal to the US Circuit Court for the CAFC. In February
the USA with an expected launch date early in the first quarter of
2006, the CAFC affirmed the judge’s ruling of invalidity of that patent.
2009. In December 2006, the Group reached a settlement with
Spectrum which provides that Spectrum may exclusively distribute The Group also commenced actions in the US District Court for the
authorisedversions of certain sumatriptan injection products in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Geneva, Alphapharm, Andrx
USA with an expected launch during the Group’s sumatriptan Pharmaceuticals, Zenith and Teva Pharmaceuticals in connection with
paediatric exclusivity period which begins in August 2008, with such their ANDA filings for Paxiland BASF and Sumika Fine Chemicals in
launch occurring not later than early November 2008. connection with their supply of paroxetine hydrochloride for use in
ANDAs.All the Group’s patent infringement claims against these
Lamictal
defendants have been resolved.
In August 2002, the Group commenced an action in the US District
Court for the District of New Jersey against Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Apotex launched its generic product in the USA in September 2003.
Inc., alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for Additional generic products were launched by other defendants after
lamotrigine, the active ingredient in Lamictaloral tablets. That patent March 2004.
affords protection through January 2009 after giving effect to a grant
The Group’s US patent litigation with Synthon BV was settled in
of paediatric exclusivity by the FDA. Teva had filed an ANDA with the
December 2003 enabling US marketing of Synthon’s paroxetine
FDA with a certification of invalidity of the Group’s patent. The parties
mesylate product. This was followed with settlement in August 2004
reached a settlement agreement pursuant to which the Group has
of most of the Group’s non-US patent litigation with Synthon as a
granted Teva an exclusive royalty-bearing license to distribute in the
consequence of which Synthon is free to market its paroxetine
USA a generic version of lamotrigine chewable tablets. In addition,
mesylate product in many markets globally where it has obtained
Teva was granted the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Teva’s
marketing authorisations. Paroxetine mesylate is a different salt form
own generic version of lamotrigine tablets in the USA with an
of paroxetine than that used in the marketed form of Seroxat/Paxil.
expected launch date in 2008. In certain markets litigation with Synthon is ongoing and Synthon is
Paxil/Seroxat asserting counterclaims for unfair competition against the Group.
In the USA a number of distributors of generic drugs filed applications
Generic products containing the anhydrate form of paroxetine
with the FDA to market generic versions of Paxil/Seroxat(paroxetine
hydrochloride are now on the market in most European countries.
hydrochloride) prior to the expiration in 2007of the Group’s patent
Whilst some of these products are the subject of continuing litigation,
on paroxetine hyrdrochloride hemihydrate. Other distributors sought
most actions have now been settled and it is expected that more will
to bring to market anhydrate or other versions of paroxetine
be settled in the future. In the UK, litigation of several years standing
hydrochloride and in one case paroxetine mesylate. In response the
between the Group and Apotex culminated in an Appeal Court
Group filed actions against all those distributors for infringement of
decision that the Group’s anhydrate process patent was valid but not
various of the Group’s patents on the basis that the generic anhydrate
infringed.Following the litigation in Canada with Apotex over several
and other versions infringe because they contain and/or convert to the
other patents related to paroxetine, Apotex launched its generic
hemihydrate form and/or infringe other Group patents.
product in Canada in October 2003. Apotex alleged that as a result
In July 1998,the Group filed an action against Apotex in the US District of that litigation it had been enjoined from launching that product
Court for the Northern District of Illinois for infringement of the after receipt of regulatory approval. An action by Apotex to recover
Group’s patent for paroxetine hydrochloride hemihydrate. Apotex had damages related to the delay occasioned by those injunctions
filed an ANDA with the FDA seeking approval to introduce a generic is ongoing.
form of Paxil. Following a trial in February 2003,the judge ruled the
Paxil CR
Group’s patent valid but not infringed by Apotex’s product. On the
In November 2005,Mylan Pharmaceuticals filed an ANDA for Paxil CR
Group’s appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(paroxetine hydrochloride controlled release formulation) with a
(CAFC), which hears all appeals from US District Courts on patent
certification of invalidity and non-infringement of several patents listed
matters, the CAFC ruled that the Group’s patent was infringed but
in the FDA Orange Book. There was no certification of invalidity or
invalid based upon ‘public use’ in clinical trials prior to the filing date
non-infringement of the patent covering paroxetine hydrochloride
in the USA.The Group filed a petition to the CAFC for rehearing on
hemihydrate, which Mylan admitted is the active ingredient in its
its appeal by the full court and in April 2005 the full CAFC vacated
product. That patent expires in June 2007, after giving effect to a
that judgement and remanded the matter to the same panel.
grant of paediatric exclusivity by the FDA. As the Group did notfile a
Concurrently with entry of that decision, the panel issued a new
patent infringement action against Mylan within the 45-day period
opinion ruling the same patent invalid under an alternative theory.
provided under Hatch-Waxman, there is no 30-month stay of FDA
approval of the Mylan ANDA.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2006
15743Legal proceedings continued Wellbutrin XL
In December 2004, Biovail commenced actions in the US District Court
Requip
for the Central District of California against Anchen Pharmaceuticals
In April 2005,the Group commenced an action in the US District
and in the US District Court for the Southern District of Florida against
Court for the District of Delaware against Teva Pharmaceutical USA
Abrika Pharmaceuticals, in each case alleging infringement of Biovail
Inc. alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for
formulation patents for Wellbutrin XL. In April 2005, Biovail filed an
ropinirole hydrochloride (the active ingredient in Requip) and a
action in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
method of use patent for treatment of Parkinson’s disease, both of
against Impax Laboratories for infringement of the same patents.
which are listed in the FDA Orange Book. The compound patent
Those patents expire in 2018. Each of Anchen, Abrika and Impax had
expires in December 2007 and the method of use patent in May
filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification of invalidity or non-
2008. The defendant filed an ANDA with the FDA with a certification
infringement of the Biovail patents. The Group is the licensee under
of invalidity and non-infringement of those patents. FDA approval of
those patents. In August 2006,the judge granted Anchen’s motion
that ANDA is stayed until the earlier of August 2007 or resolution of
and ruled that Anchen’s ANDA product did not infringe Biovail’s
the patent infringement action. In December 2006,the judge ruled
patent. Biovail has appealed that decision to the CAFC. A hearing on
at the conclusion of the trial that the Group’s method of use of
Abrika’s motion for summary judgementwas heard in April 2006 but
ropinirole to treat Parkinson’s Disease is novel and nonobvious
as of the date of this report no decision has been announced. Impax
rejecting Teva’s claims on those grounds. Teva’s further claim that the
filed a motion for summary judgementof nonfringement in August
patent is unenforceable for inequitable conduct remains before the
2006, but as of the date of this report no decision has been
judge as the evidence was not reviewed at the trial. This issue is to be
announced. The Group is not a party to any of those actions. In
decided on the basis of deposition testimony and documents and
September 2005,Biovail commenced actions in the US District Court
consideration of further potential filings by the parties. Teva’s original
for the Southern District of New York against Watson Laboratories
challenge to the Group’s basic compound patent was withdrawn
alleging infringement of the Biovail formulation patents. Watson’s
before trial, and Teva has accepted that the FDA will not approve its
third party counterclaim against the Group based on listing activities
product prior to expiration of that patent.
associated with the FDA Orange Book was dismissed in October 2006.
Valtrex
The FDA has given final approval to Anchen’s ANDA for its generic
In May 2003, the Group commenced an action in the US District
version of Wellbutrin XLand to Impax for a generic 300 mg tablet
Court for the District of New Jersey against Ranbaxy Laboratories,
product. The 300 mg generic product was launched in the USA at the
alleging infringement of the Group’s compound patent for
end of December 2006.No generic version of the 150 mg tablet has
valacyclovir, the active ingredient in Valtrex. That patent expires in been launched as of the date of this report.
2009. The defendant has filed an ANDA with the FDA with a
certification the Group’s compound patent was invalid or not In December 2005, Andrx Pharmaceuticals filed an action against the
infringed. In August 2004, Ranbaxy filed a motion for partial summary Group in the US District Court for the Southern District of Florida,
judgementthat the patent was invalid for being in ‘public use’ more alleging that the manufacture, importation and sale of the 150 mg
than one year before the filing of the patent application and the Wellbutrin XLproduct infringes a patent issued to Andrx in June 2005
Group filed a motion that the patent was not invalid on those and asking for treble damages, attorneys’ fees and that the Group and
grounds. In March 2005, the court ruled in the Group’s favour that others acting in concert with it be enjoined.In February 2007,the
the patent was not invalid on those grounds. parties reached a settlement, providing that the Group pay Andrx a
$35 million license fee and that Andrx grant the Group a royalty-
On 1st February 2007,Ranbaxy receivedFDA approval for its generic
bearing license to its US patents covering Wellbutrin XL.
valacyclovir product and notified the Group that it sought to market
the product in the USA. Under the terms of an earlier agreement Zofran
between the companies, previously approved by the court, Ranbaxy In August 2001,the Group commenced an action in the US District
had agreed that if the Groupappliedfor a preliminary injunction Court for the District of New Jersey against Reddy-Cheminor and Dr.
within 45 daysof that notificationRanbaxywouldnot launch its Reddy’s Laboratories. Dr.Reddy had certified invalidity of three patents
product until the court either ruledon the preliminary injunction or for ondansetron, the active ingredient in Zofrantablets, including the
decidedthe pending court case. At a conference with the court on compound patent that expired in July 2005 and two method of use
28th February 2007 a trial date for the case was set for 7th August patents, the later of which expired in December 2006, in both
2007 and the parties agreed that it would not be necessary that the instances taking into account the extension for paediatric exclusivity.
Group file a request for a preliminary injunction. In July 2003,the Group filed an action against Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories
in the same district court for infringement of the Group’s patents
related to the orally disintegrating tablet presentation of Zofran. In
October 2003, the Group filed an action against West-ward
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the same district court for infringement of
the Group’s patents related to an injectable presentation of Zofran.
Both the Dr.Reddy’s disintegrating tablet case and the West-ward
case were consolidated with the earlier Dr.Reddy’s case.
GSK Annual Report 2006
158
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the financial statements
continuedNotes to the financial statements
continued
43Legal proceedings continued The Group received lawsuits filed in state and federal courts in the USA
and Canada on behalf of thousands of plaintiffs, including purported
Prior to the trial both Reddy-Cheminor and West-ward withdrew their
class actions, alleging that paroxetine (the active ingredient in Paxil) is
challenge to the compound patent. The trial over infringement and
addictive and causes dependency and withdrawal reactions. Plaintiffs
validity of the Group’s method of use and process patents was
sought remedies including compensatory, punitive and statutory
completed in June 2004 and closing arguments were heard in May
damages and the cost of a fund for medical monitoring. In 2003, a
2005. The parties subsequently reached a settlement agreement, the
federal judge in the US District Court for the Central District of
terms of which remain confidential.
California denied class action certifications for a nationwide class and
In March 2002, the Group filed a similar action against Teva a California statewide class as to cases filed in federal court in that
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. in the US District Court for the District of district. Subsequently, on petition from plaintiffs’ counsel all federal
Delaware alleging infringement of the two method of use patents for court cases were transferred to that District Court for consolidation
ondansetron. Teva had certified invalidity or non-infringement of the in Multidistrict Litigation (MDL). In January 2006, a conditional
two method of use patents. Teva did not challenge the compound settlement agreement that included more than 90 per cent of the
patent. The trial judge ruled in the Group’s favour, upholding the pending claims based on symptoms on discontinuing Paxiltreatment
validity of the method of use patents. Following an appeal by Teva to became effective. The Group did not, as part of the settlement, admit
the CAFC, the parties reached a settlement agreement, the terms of any liability with respect to the allegations in any of the suits. Virtually
which remain confidential. all the personal injury lawsuits concerning discontinuation symptoms
have now been resolved by settlement or dismissal. One purported
In January 2003, the Group commenced an action against Kali
class action consumer fraud lawsuit focused on discontinuation
Laboratories (now Par Pharmaceutical Company) in the US District
symptoms continues in California state court. There is alsopurported
Court for the District of New Jersey involving orally disintegrating
class action litigation in Canada concerning symptoms on
Zofran tablets. The trial judge denied Kali’s summary judgement
discontinuation of Paxil.
motion and granted the Group’s summary judgementmotions in June
2005 and July 2005, affirming the validity of the Group’s method of The Group has received numerous claims and lawsuits alleging that
use patents and holding that Kali’s proposed generic product would treatment with Paxil has caused homicidal or suicidal behaviour
infringe those patents. Following an appeal by Kali to the CAFC, exhibited by users of the product. Class certification was denied in
the parties reached a settlement agreement, the terms of which January 2007 in the one purported personal injury class action lawsuit
remain confidential. which is pending in the US District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania. In January 2005,the FDA approved a black box warning
Following the settlement agreements referred to above, generic that antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts or behaviour
ondansetron tablet products were launched by a number of
in paediatric patients and other strengthened warnings for selective
distributors in the USA in December 2006.
serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) products, including Paxil, as a class.
Productliability In May 2006,the PaxilUS label was updated to warn that young adults,
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development especially those with Major Depressive Disorder, may be at increased
of potential products to determine the safety and efficacy of products risk for suicidal behaviour during treatment with paroxetine. In
for use by humans following approval by regulatory bodies. December 2006, the FDA held an Advisory Committee meeting
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines are following a review of data regarding suicidal thoughts and behaviours
introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may in clinical studies of various antidepressants in adults. The FDA is
become evident. The Group is currently a defendant in a number of expected to update the label for antidepressants as a class to advise of
product liability lawsuits related to the Group’s pharmaceutical a possible increased risk for suicidal behaviour in young adults.
products. The most significant of those matters are described below.
The Group has received numerous lawsuits and claims alleging that use
Paxil of Paxilduring the first trimester of pregnancy resulted in the birth of
The Group has received lawsuits and claims filed on behalf of patients a child with a heart defect or other birth defect. The Group is also
alleging that they have suffered symptoms on discontinuing involved in litigation alleging that the use of Paxilduring pregnancy
treatment with Paxil(paroxetine). Separately, the Group has received resulted in the birth of a baby with primary pulmonary hypertension
lawsuits and claims that patients who had commenced Paxil of the newborn. In September 2005,the US label for Paxilwas updated
treatment committed or attempted to commit suicide and/or acts of to reflect new information that suggested an increased risk of
violence. The Group has also received lawsuits and claims alleging congenital malformations (particularly cardiovascular malformations) in
that use of Paxilduring pregnancy resulted in the birth of a child infants born to mothers who took Paxilduring the first trimester of
with birth defects or health issues. pregnancy. In December 2005, the PaxilUS label was further updated
to include new data and to strengthen the pregnancy warning from
Category C to Category D, which indicates there is evidence of risk to
the foetus, but the potential benefits from the use of the drug in
pregnant women may outweigh the risk. In May 2006,the PaxilUS
label was again updated to include a class warning concerning
persistentpulmonary hypertension of the newborn in mothers who
took Paxilafter the 20th week of pregnancy.
GSK Annual Report 2006
159
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
43Legal proceedings continued Fen-Phen
In 1997, the FDA became aware of reports of cardiac valvular
Phenylpropanolamine
problems in individuals for whom fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine
Following a report from the Yale Haemorrhagic Stroke Project that
alone or in combination with phentermine was prescribed as part of
found a suggestion of an association between first use of
a regimen of weight reduction and requested the voluntary
phenylpropanolamine (PPA) decongestant and haemorrhagic stroke,
withdrawal of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine from the market.
the Group and most other manufacturers have voluntarily withdrawn
The reports of cardiac valvular problems and the subsequent
consumer healthcare products in which PPA was an active ingredient.
withdrawal of those products form the market spawned numerous
Since the PPA product withdrawal the Group has been named as a
product liability lawsuits filed against the manufacturers and
defendant in numerous personal injury and class action lawsuits filed
distributors of fenfluramine, dexfenfluramine and phentermine. As
in state and federal courts alleging personal injury or increased risk of
one of a number of manufacturers of phentermine, the Group
injury from use of products containing PPA and unfair and deceptive
remains a defendant in less than one hundred of several thousand
business practices. Plaintiffs seek remedies including compensatory
lawsuits that were filed in various state and federal district courts in
and punitive damages and refunds.
the USA against the Group and other defendants.
The federal cases have been consolidated in a multidistrict litigation
Most of the lawsuits seek relief including some combination of
proceeding in the US District Court for the District of Washington. The
compensatory and punitive damages, medical monitoring and refunds
judge responsible for those proceedings has denied class certification
for purchases of drugs. In 1997,the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict
and struck all class allegations in the federal personal injury and
Litigation issued an order consolidating and transferring all federal
consumer refund class actions. Class certification has been denied in
actions to the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
California state court and a Pennsylvania state court putative class
That court approved a global settlement proposed by defendant
action has been dismissed, leaving no putative class actions pending
Wyeth, which sold fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. The settlement,
against the Group in this litigation. A substantial number of cases in
subsequently approved by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, does not
which the Group or other manufacturers are defendants have reached
include any of the phentermine defendants, including the Group.
trial in state and federal courts. Manufacturers have for the most part
Individual plaintiffs may elect to opt out of the class settlement and
received favourable outcomes at trial.
pursue their claims individually and tens of thousands of plaintiffs
Baycol have elected to do so. Wyeth continues to settle individual state court
In August 2001, Bayer AG withdrew Baycol(cerivastatin sodium) cases before trial and the Group continues to be dismissed from
worldwide in light of reports of adverse events, including deaths, lawsuits as they are settled by Wyeth.
involving rhabdomyolosis. The Group had participated in the
Thimerosal
marketing of Baycol in the USA pursuant to a co-promotion
The Group, along with a number of other pharmaceutical companies,
agreement with Bayer which was the licence holder and manufacturer
has been named as a defendant in numerous individual personal injury
of the product.
lawsuits in state and federal district courts in the USA alleging that
Following the withdrawal, Bayer and the Group have been named as thimerosal, a preservative used in the manufacture of vaccines, causes
defendants in thousands of lawsuits filed in state and federal courts neurodevelopmental disorders and other injuries, including autism.
in the USA on behalf of both individuals and putative classes of former Two of the cases are purported class actions although there has been
Baycolusers. A number of the suits allege that the plaintiffs have no determination whether any of those cases will be permitted to
suffered personal injuries, including rhabdomyolosis, from the use of proceed as a class action. A number of purported class actions in
Baycol. Others claim that persons who took Baycol, although not other jurisdictions have been withdrawn or dismissed. Plaintiffs seek
injured, may be at risk of future injury or may have suffered economic remedies including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages
damages from purchasing and using Baycol. Plaintiffs seek remedies and the cost of a fund for medical monitoring and research. As of the
including compensatory, punitive and statutory damages and creation date of this report there are no cases scheduled for trial in 2007 in
of funds for medical monitoring. which the Group is a defendant.
The Group and Bayer Corporation, the principal US subsidiary of Bayer
AG, have signed an allocation agreement under which Bayer
Corporation has agreed to pay 95 per cent of all settlements and
compensatory damages judgements with each party retaining
responsibility for its own attorneys’ fees and any punitive damages.
The federal cases have been consolidated in aMDLproceeding in the
US District Court for the District of Minnesota. To date two statewide
class actions have been certified – a medical monitoring case in
Pennsylvania and a Consumer Fraud and Deceptive Business Practices
Act case in Illinois. The medical monitoring action was dismissed by
the court on summary judgement. Another class action, in which GSK
was not named as a defendant, has been certified in Oklahoma. A
substantial number of claims for death or serious injury have been
settled and many others alleging muscle aches and pains have been
voluntarily or involuntarily dismissed.
GSK Annual Report 2006
160
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
43Legal proceedings continued Average wholesale price
GSK has responded to subpoenas from the Office of the Inspector
Sales andmarketing andregulation
General of the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
Marketing andpromotion
the US Department of Justice and the states of Texas and California in
In February 2004, the Group received a subpoena from the US
connection with allegations that pharmaceutical companies, including
Attorney’s office in Colorado regarding the Group’s sales and
GSK, have violated federal fraud and abuse laws such as the Federal
promotional practices relating to nine of its largest selling products for
False Claims Act (and, with respect to Texas and California, comparable
the period from January 1997 to the present. In particular the
state laws) as a result of the way ‘average wholesale price’ (AWP) was
government has inquired about alleged promotion of these drugs for
determined and reported for certain drugs and the way the Medicare
off-label uses as well as Group sponsored continuing medical
and Medicaid programmes reimburse for those drugs. In September
education programmes, other speaker events, special issue boards,
2005,the Group reached a civil settlement with the US Department
advisory boards, speaker training programmes, clinical studies, and
of Justice, the US Attorney for the District of Massachusetts and the
related grants, fees, travel and entertainment. Although the original
Office of the Inspector General for HHS (the “DOJ Settlement”). The
subpoena issued from the US Attorney’s office in Colorado, the scope
Group agreed to pay the government a civil settlement of $149 million,
of the inquiry is nationwide. The Group is co-operating with the
which included settlement amounts for each of the states for the claims
investigation and providing the requested information. The Group
being settled. As part of the settlement the corporate integrity
had earlier responded to an October 2002 letter from the FDA’s
agreement to which the Group is a party was amended to address
Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising and Communication
issues raised in the course of the government investigation.
requesting information on the Group’s alleged promotion of
Wellbutrin SRfor off-label use. Subsequent to the initial subpoenas, a number of states through their
respective attorneys general and most of the counties in New York
In June 2005,the Group and other pharmaceutical manufacturers
state filed civil lawsuits in state and federal courts against GSK and
received a letter from the US Senate Finance Committee in which the
many other drug companies. The actions claim, on behalf of the states
Committee expressed concern that educational grants were being
as payers (and in some cases on behalf of in-state patients as
improperly used to promote drug products and requesting that each
consumers), damages and restitution due to AWP-based price
company provide detailed information and documents about its use
reporting for pharmaceutical products covered by the states’ Medicaid
of educational grants. In January 2006,the Group and the same
programmes (and in some cases by other governmental programmes).
manufacturers received a second letter from the Committee asking
In addition, private payer class action lawsuits were filed against GSK
for additional information on the Group’s internal grant approval
in multiple federal district and state courts. All the federal cases were
process, grants to medical/physician/professional organisations, consolidated in aMDLproceeding in the US District Court for the
academic institutions or state agencies to support journal articles and
District of Massachusetts.
other publications and grants to patient education or advocacy
groups. The Group is co-operating in the Committee’s investigation In August 2005,the judge in that MDL proceeding granted in part
and providing the requested information. and denied in part the private-payer plaintiffs’ motion for class
certification, thereby narrowing the scope of the class claims. In
In February 2003,the Verona Public Prosecutor commenced a criminal
August 2006 the Group reached civil settlements to resolve the class
investigation into GSK’s sales and marketing practices in Italy.
action litigation and certain of the state attorney general claims. The
Specific areas of investigation include medical education programmes,
Group agreed to a nationwide settlement (subject to court approval)
clinical studies and congresses as well as the interaction between
of $70 million to resolve these claims. The Group separately resolved
GSK representatives and physicians. The US Securities and Exchange
potential AWP claims by state Medicaid programmes in more than
Commission (SEC) staff has initiated an investigation into
two-thirds of the states through the procedures established by the
the allegations. The Group is co-operating with both of
DOJ Settlement, and also fully resolved AWP lawsuits filed or
these investigations.
threatened by a number of state attorneys general. Litigation
In February 2006, the Group received a subpoena from the SEC in concerning AWP issues is continuing with a group of other state
respect of the Group’s participation in the United Nations Oil for Food attorneys general as well as with New York counties.
Programme. The Group is co-operating with the SEC and providing
Nominal pricing
documents responsive to the subpoena.The USDepartment of Justice
The Group responded to two letter requests from the US Senate
is also investigating this matter.
Committee on Finance, dated April 2004 and February 2005, for
documents and information relating to the nominal price exception
to the best price reporting requirements under the Medicaid Drug
Rebate Programme. There has been no further activity in connection
with this inquiry by the Committee as to the Group since September
2005. In May 2004, the Group was advised by the US Department of
Justice that they are investigating certain of the Group’s nominal
pricing arrangements to determine whether those arrangements
qualify under the exception to the best price reporting requirements
or violate civil statutes or laws. The Group is co-operating in that
investigation and has provided documents and information to the
Department of Justice regarding nominal pricing arrangements for a
number of the Group’s products.
GSK Annual Report 2006
161
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
43Legal proceedings continued In April 2005, the Group received a subpoena from the US Attorney’s
Office in Boston requesting production of records regarding
Paxil/Seroxat
manufacturing at the Cidra site covering the same type of information
Following announcement of the New York State Attorney General’s
as that collected by the US government in Puerto Rico in 2003. The
officeaboutthe state’s lawsuit, subsequently settled in August 2004,
Group is co-operating with the US Attorney’s Office and producing
alleging failure to disclose data on the use of Paxilin children and
the records responsive to the subpoena. The Group is also named in
adolescents, similar cases, some of which purport to be class actions,
two purported consumer fraud class action lawsuits – one filed in
have been filed in state and federal and Canadian courts by private
California state court and the other in the US District Court for the
plaintiffs seeking to recover amounts paid for Paxilpurchased for use
District of Puerto Rico – alleging that Paxil CR and/or Paxil Oral
by patients under age 18. The Group reached a class settlement
Suspension were not manufactured according to GMP. Plaintiffs seek
agreement in an Illinois state court action that would include all
economic, statutory and punitive damages, along with a request for
persons in the USA who bought Paxilfor someone under age 18.
injunctive relief. There has not yet been any determination whether
The Group denies any liability. The agreement relates only to the cost
either case will be permitted to proceed as a class action.
of purchasing Paxilfor use by paediatric patients and does not include
any personal injury claims. The settlement received preliminary Anti-trust
approval by a judge in Madison County, Illinois in October 2006. Paxil/Seroxat
The final fairness hearing on the settlement is scheduled for In the paroxetine patent infringement actions brought by the Group
25th April2007. as described under ‘Intellectual property’ above, Apotex, Alphapharm,
BASF and Sumika have filed anti-trust and unfair competition
In the UK an investigation remains pending by the UK Medicines and
counterclaims against the Group in the US District Court for the
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) to determine
Eastern District of Pennsylvania based on allegations that the Group
whether the Group has complied with its pharmacovigilence
monopoliseda ‘market’ for Paxilby bringing allegedly sham patent
obligations in reporting data from clinical trials for Seroxat/Paxilin
litigation and allegedly abusing the regulatory procedures for the
children and adolescents.
listing of patents in the FDA Orange Book. Whilst the Apotex matter
Cidra, Puerto Rico manufacturing site remains in the discovery stage, the Alphapharm and BASF matters
Following FDA inspections in October 2003 and November 2004 have been resolved and a settlement agreement in principle has been
which resulted in observations of possible deficiencies in reached with Sumika.
manufacturing practices at the Group’s manufacturing facility in Cidra,
In November 2000, the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) staff
Puerto Rico, in March 2005 the FDA halted distribution of supplies of
advised the Group that they were conducting a non-public
Paxil CR and Avandamet due to manufacturing issues. The FDA
investigation to determine whether the Group was violating Section
observations related to certain aspects of production controls, process
5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by ‘monopolising or
validation and laboratory investigations.
attempting tomonopolise’ the market for paroxetine hydrochloride
The Cidra site is engaged in tableting and packaging for a range of by preventing generic competition to Paxiland requested the Group
GlaxoSmithKline products – primarily for the US market – including to submit certain information in connection with that investigation.
Paxil, Paxil CR, Coreg, Avandia, and Avandamet. In April 2005 the In October 2003,the FTC closed its investigation on the basis of its
Group reached agreement with the FDA on a Consent Decree. The finding that no further action was warranted.
Consent Decree provides for an independent expert to review
Following public reference to the FTC investigation regarding Paxil,a
manufacturing processes at the site for compliance with FDA Good
number of governmental and private civil actions and claims were
Manufacturing Practice (GMP) requirements. As provided in the
initiated in the USA.All have been resolved with the exception of a
Consent Decree, the Group provided a report to the FDA on the
private indirect purchaser opt-out lawsuit brought in Minnesota state
deficiencies identified in this review, setting out a corrective plan and
court. That matter is in the discovery phase. Additionally, class actions
timetable for completion. The Group remains fully committed to
have been filed in provincial courts in Canada on behalf of direct and
working cooperatively with the FDA to address any issues in a timely
indirect purchasers. Those cases are in their early stages.
fashion. The Group has resumed manufacture of products at the site.
In June 2006,the FDA confirmed that the status for the site had been
upgraded to ‘voluntary action indicated,’ which means that the FDA
deems the site acceptable for the export of products and for routine
manufacturing operations.
No financial penalties have been imposed under the Consent Decree.
The Consent Decree allows for potential future penalties up to a
maximum of $10 million a year if the Group fails to meet the terms
of theConsent Decree.
GSK Annual Report 2006
162
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
43Legal proceedings continued Commercial and corporate
Relenza
In October 2005, the Competition Directorate of the European
In May 2004,Biota Holdings Limited filed a complaint in the Victorian
Commission initiated an inspection concerning allegations that the
Supreme Court in Australia alleging that the Group had failed tofulfil
Group has abused a dominant position in the marketplace concerning
its development, promotion and production obligations for zanamivir
enforcement of its intellectual property rights, litigation surrounding
(Relenza) under the terms of the licence agreement between the
regulatory approvals and marketing of Seroxatin Europe. In October
Group and Biota. Biota is seeking substantial cash damages. The
2006, the Commission made a formal request for further information.
Group believes that it has adhered to its obligations under the licence
The Group continues to co-operate fully with the Commission.
agreement. The parties are involved in extensive discovery.
Canadian importation
Securities class action
The Group has been named in seven purported class action lawsuits
In September 2005, attorneys representing a purported class of
along with eight other pharmaceutical companies. Following the
purchasers of GlaxoSmithKline shares and American Depositary Shares
Group’s actions in 2003 to reduce illegal importation of prescription
(ADSs) filed a second amended securities class action complaint
drugs from Canada, the lawsuits alleged that the companies entered
against the Group in the US District Court for the Southern District of
into an unlawful conspiracy to prevent Canadian pharmacies from
New York alleging that the Group violated US securities laws through
selling their products to US customers. Those lawsuits were
failure to disclose unfavourable clinical data from studies on Paxil,
consolidated into one action before the US District Court for the
misrepresentation of the remaining patent protection for Paxiland
District of Minnesota. The Group’s motion to dismiss the consolidated
Augmentinand violation of the Federal False Claims Act on the basis
action was granted by the court and affirmed by the US Circuit Court
of the Group’s recent AWP settlement with the government. In
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in November 2006.
October 2006,the judge entered an order dismissing the complaint.
In relation to the same matter, the Minnesota state attorney general Plaintiffs have filed an appeal with the US Court of Appeals for the
has filed a civil investigative demand and, subsequently, a complaint Second Circuit.
alleging that the Group has violated state anti-trust and commercial
Overtime claims
laws. That case is still in the discovery phase.
In December 2006,two purported class actions were filed in the US
The Group has also been named as a defendant, along with thirteen District Courts for the Central and Southern Districts of California
other drug companies, in a state court action in California, in which against the Group on behalf of all the Group’s US pharmaceutical
the plaintiffs, independent pharmacies, allege that the defendants sales representatives. The actions allege that those representatives are
unlawfully conspired to keep prices artificially high in the USA to the not ‘exempt’ employees under the US Fair Labor Standards Act and
detriment of the plaintiffs. In December 2006,the trial judge granted consequently entitled to overtime pay. The suits seek double damages
the Group’s motion for summary judgement.Plaintiffs have filed an for all overtime allegedly worked by the Group’s sales representatives
appeal with the California Court of Appeals. over a three-year period together with attorneys’ fees. Similar actions
have been filed against other pharmaceutical companies. The cases
Wellbutrin SR
are in their early stages.
In December 2004, and January and February 2005, lawsuits, several
of which purported to be class actions, were filed in the US District Environmental matters
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against the Group on GSK has been notified of its potential responsibility relating to past
behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of Wellbutrin SR. The operations and its past waste disposal practices at certain sites,
complaints allege violations of US anti-trust laws through sham primarily in the USA. Some of these matters are the subject of
litigation and fraud on the patent office by the Group in obtaining and litigation, including proceedings initiated by the US federal or state
enforcing patents covering Wellbutrin SR. The complaints follow the governments for waste disposal site remediation costs and tort actions
introduction of generic competition to Wellbutrin SRin April 2004 brought by private parties.
after district and appellate court rulings that a generic manufacturer
GSK has been advised that it may be a responsible party at
did not infringe the Group’s patents. The parties are involved
approximately 29 sites, of which 14 appear on the National Priority
in discovery.
List created by the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Secondary wholesaler Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund).
In July 2006, RxUSAWholesale, Inc., a ‘secondary wholesaler’, filed
suit against the Group and many other pharmaceutical manufacturers
and wholesalers in the US District Court for the Eastern District of
New York. The complaint alleges that the defendants engaged in a
conspiracy to refuse to supply pharmaceutical products to RxUSA in
violation of federal and state anti-trust laws. The Group’s motion to
dismiss the complaint is pending.
GSK Annual Report 2006
163
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFNotes to the financial statements
continued
43Legal proceedings continued
These proceedings seek to require the operators of hazardous waste
facilities, transporters of waste to the sites and generators of
hazardous waste disposed of at the sites to clean up the sites or to
reimburse the government for cleanup costs. In most instances, GSK
is involved as an alleged generator of hazardous waste although there
are a few sites where GSK is involved as a current or former operator
of the facility. Although Superfund provides that the defendants are
jointly and severally liable for cleanup costs, these proceedings are
frequently resolved on the basis of the nature and quantity of waste
disposed of at the site by the generator. GSK’s proportionate liability
for cleanup costs has been substantially determined for about 20 of
the sites referred to above.
GSK’s potential liability varies greatly from site to site. While the cost
of investigation, study and remediation at such sites could, over time,
be substantial, GSK routinely accrues amounts related to its share of
the liability for such matters.
Tax matters
Pending tax matters are described in Note12.
GSK Annual Report 2006
164
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGlaxoSmithKline plc
Directors’ statements of responsibility
Directors’ statement of responsibility in relation to Directors’ remuneration
the company’s financial statements
The Remuneration Report on pages 65 to 82 sets out the
The Directors are: remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on
Directors’ remuneration and other disclosable information relating to
•responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting
Directors and officers and their interests. It has been prepared in
records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and complies with Section
position of the company at any time and from which financial
B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
statements can be prepared to comply with the Companies
Act1985
Going concern basis
•required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable
period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
expectationthat the company has adequate resources to continue in
company as at the end of the financial period and ofthe profit or
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Forthis reason,
loss for that period
they continue to adopt the going concern basis inpreparing the
•responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of financial statements.
internalcontrol and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the
assets of the company and for preventing and detecting fraud and The Combined Code
other irregularities.
The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles of
The balance sheet for the year ended 31st December 2006, and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial
supporting notes are set out on pages167to170of this report. Reporting Council, asdescribed under ‘Corporate governance’ on
pages 53 to 63, and has complied with its provisions except as
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been
described on page62.
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements,
supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the
asnecessary; applicable accounting standards have been followed, auditors haveconsidered the Directors’ statement of compliance in
and the financial statements have been prepared on the going relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified
concern basis. for theirreview.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors’ report (page166).
The Annual Report 2006 is published in hard-copy printed form and
made available on the website. The Directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the website in
accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and Sir Christopher Gent
dissemination of financial statements. Access to the website is available Chairman
from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different. 28th February 2007
Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors, in office at the date of this Report, have each
confirmed that:
•so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of
which the company’s auditors are unaware; and
•each Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken
as a Director to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware
of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance
with the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
GSK Annual Report 2006
165
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGlaxoSmithKline plc
GSK Annual Report 2006
166
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Independent Auditors’ report
to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc
We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion
GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31st December 2006 which
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards
comprisethe Balance Sheet and the related notes. These parent
on Auditing (UK and Ireland) issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
company financial statements have been prepared under the
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant
accounting policies set out therein. We have also audited the
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial
information in the Directors’ Remuneration Report that is described
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
as having been audited.
audited. It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the
GlaxoSmithKline for the year ended 31st December 2006. parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting
policies are appropriate to the company’s circumstances, consistently
Respective responsibilities of directors applied and adequately disclosed.
and auditors
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the
The directors’ responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, information and explanations which we considered necessary in order
the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the parent company financial to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance
statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom that the parent company financial statements and the part of the
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material
Accounting Practice) are set out in the Statement of Directors’ misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Responsibilities. In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the
presentation of information in the parent company financial
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements
statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to
and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited in
be audited.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and
International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). This report,
Opinion
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the
company’s members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the In our opinion:
Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.We do not, in giving
• the parent company financial statements give a true and fair
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose
Accounting Practice, of the state of the company’s affairs as at hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent
31stDecember 2006;
in writing.
•the parent company financial statements and the part of the
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985; and
company financial statements and the part of the Directors’
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in •the information given in theReport of the Directorsis consistent with
accordance with the Companies Act 1985. We also report to you the parent company financial statements.
whether in our opinion the information given in theReport of the
Directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not
kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if
information specified by law regarding directors’ remuneration and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and London
consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company 28th February 2007
financial statements. The other information comprises only the
Financial summary, the Joint statement by the Chairman and Chief
Executive, Financial trends and ratios, Business review, the Corporate
governance statement and unaudited parts of the Remuneration
report. We consider the implications for our report if we become
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with
the parent company financial statements. Our responsibilities do not
extend to any other information.GlaxoSmithKline plc
Company balance sheet – UK GAAP
at31st December 2006
2005
2006 (restated)
Notes £m £m
Investmentin subsidiary companies 19,466 18,750
Fixed assets E 19,466 18,750
Debtors F 273 237
Cash at bank 7 5
Current assets 280 242
Creditors: amounts due within one year G (10,210) (8,885)
Net current liabilities (9,930) (8,643)
Net assets 9,536 10,107
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital H 1,498 1,491
Share premium account H 858 549
Other reserves I 1,008 902
Profit and loss account I 6,172 7,165
Equity shareholders’ funds 9,536 10,107
Approved by the Board on28thFebruary 2007
Sir Christopher Gent
Chairman
GSK Annual Report 2006
167
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIFGlaxoSmithKline plc
GSK Annual Report 2006
168
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
APresentation of the financial statements Share based payments
The issuance by the company to its subsidiaries of a grant over the
Description of business
company’s options, represents additional capital contributions by the
GlaxoSmithKline plc is the parent company of GSK, a major global
company in its subsidiaries. An additional investment in subsidiaries
healthcare group which is engaged in the creation and discovery,
results in a corresponding increase in shareholders’ equity. The
development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical
additional capital contribution is based on the fair value of the grant
products, including vaccines, over-the-counter (OTC) medicines and
issued allocated over the underlying grant’s vesting period.
health-related consumer products.
Taxation
Preparation of financial statements
Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid applying
The financial statements are drawn up in accordance with UK
tax rates that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the
generally accepted accounting principles (UKGAAP) and with UK
balance sheet date.
accounting presentation as at 31st December 2006, with comparative
figures as at 31st December 2005. The company accounts for taxation which is deferred or accelerated
by reason of timing differences which have originated but not
As permitted by s.230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss
reversed by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets are only
account of the company is not presented in this Annual Report.
recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable against
Accounting convention and standards future taxable profits.
The balance sheet has been prepared using the historical cost
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected
convention and complies with applicable UK accounting standards.
to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected
Accounting principles and policies to reverse. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
The preparation of the balance sheet in conformity with generally
Financial guarantees
accepted accounting principles requires management
Financial guarantees issued between the company and its subsidiaries
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
are held at fair value and amortised over the life of the guarantee.
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheet. Actual amounts
CNew accounting policies
could differ from those estimates.
The ASB issued an amendment to FRS 26‘Financial Instruments:
The balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with the
Measurement’inApril 2006. This has been adopted by the company
company’s accounting policies approved by the Board and described in 2006. The amended standardimplementsthe sections of IAS39
in NoteB.
relating to recognition and derecognition. The adoption of this
amended standard has the effect of recognising the fair value of
BAccounting policies
financial guarantees issued by the company, and as a result the
Foreign currency transactions comparative figures of the company have been restatedby increasing
Foreign currency transactions are recorded at the exchange rate ruling both investment in subsidiary companies and other creditors by
on the date of transaction, or at the forward rate if hedged by a £23 million. There is no impact on profits previously reported.
forward exchangecontract. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are
translated at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, or at DOperating profit
the forward rate.
A fee of £10,700 (2005 – £10,700) relating to the audit of the
Dividends paid and received company has been charged in operating profit.
Dividends paid and received are included in the accounts in the period
in which the related dividends are actually paid or received.
Expenditure
Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms. Provision is
made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past
event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably
estimated.
Investments in subsidiary companies
Investments in subsidiary companies are held at cost less any provision
for permanent diminution in value.
Impairment of investments
The carrying value of investments are reviewed for impairment when
there is an indication that the investment might be impaired. Any
provision resulting from an impairment review is charged to the
income statement in the year concerned.GlaxoSmithKline plc
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
continued
EFixed assets
2005
2006 (restated)
£m £m
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Finance plc – 17,888
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited 613 –
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings (One) Limited 18 18
Shares in GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited 17,888 –
18,519 17,906
Capital contribution relating to share based paymentsand financial guarantees 947 844
19,466 18,750
During the year the company formed a new subsidiary, GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited, and sold its entire shareholding in GlaxoSmithKline
Finance plc to it. GlaxoSmithKline Holdings Limited issued new shares to the company as consideration.The company also paid £613 million
in consideration for the issue of new shares from GlaxoSmithKline Services Unlimited.
FDebtors
2006 2005
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Corporate tax 271 127
Amounts owed by Group undertakings 2 110
273 237
GCreditors
2005
2006 (restated)
£m £m
Amounts due within one year:
Dividends payable 4 4
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 10,185 8,857
Other creditors 21 24
10,210 8,885
HShare capital and share premium account
Share
Ordinary shares of 25p each premium
Number £m £m
Share capital authorised
At 31st December 2005 10,000,000,000 2,500
At 31st December 2006 10,000,000,000 2,500
Share capital issued and fully paid
At 1st January 2005 5,937,688,831 1,484 304
Issued under share option schemes 25,162,425 7 245
At 31st December 2005 5,962,851,256 1,491 549
Issued under share option schemes 28,750,592 7 309
At 31st December 2006 5,991,601,848 1,498 858
31st December 31st December
2006 2005
Number (‘000) of shares issuable under outstanding options 222,163 221,293
Number (‘000) of unissued shares not under option 3,786,235 3,815,856
At 31st December 2006, of the issued share capital,153,451,642shares were held in the ESOP Trust,235,482,678shares were held as Treasury
shares and5,602,667,528shares were in free issue. All issued shares are fully paid.The nominal,carrying and market valuesof the shares held
in the ESOPTrust are disclosedinNote40.
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
GSK Annual Report 2006
169GlaxoSmithKline plc
GSK Annual Report 2006
170
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
Notes to the company balance sheet – UK GAAP
continued
IReserves Other Profit and
reserves loss account Total
£m £m £m
At 1st January 2005 767 9,476 10,243
Profitattributable to shareholders – 1,079 1,079
Dividends to shareholders – (2,390) (2,390)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – (1,000) (1,000)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 135 – 135
At 31st December 2005 902 7,165 8,067
Profit attributable to shareholders – 2,953 2,953
Dividends to shareholders – (2,598) (2,598)
Ordinary shares purchased and held as Treasury shares – (1,348) (1,348)
Capital contribution relating to share based payments 106 – 106
At 31st December 2006 1,008 6,172 7,180
The profit of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year was £2,953million (2005 – £1,079 million), which after dividends of £2,598million (2005
– £2,390 million), gave a retainedprofitof £355million (2005 –loss£1,311 million). After the cost ofshares purchased and held as
Treasury shares of £1,348million (2005 – £1,000 million), the profit and loss account reserve at 31st December 2006 stood at £6,172million
(2005 – £7,165 million), of which £4,096million is unrealised (2005 – £4,096 million).NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Investor information
This section includes the financial record presenting historical
information analysed in accordance with current reporting practice.
The transition date to IFRS for GSKwas1st January 2003. Therefore,
the 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 information included in the Fiveyear
record is in accordance with IFRS. The 2002 information is in
accordance with UKGAAP.
To provide a link between IFRS and UK GAAP, 2003information is
presented also under UKGAAP. The accounting policies used in the
preparation of the UKGAAP information are disclosed in the 2004
Annual Report. Information prepared under IFRS is not directly
comparable with information prepared under UK GAAP.
The Five year record also presents information in accordance with US
GAAP.
This section also discusses shareholder return, in the form of dividends
and share price movements, and provides other information for
shareholders.
Financial record
Quarterly trend 172
Five year record 178
Shareholder information 182
Taxation information for shareholders 186
GSK Annual Report 2006
171NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Financial record
Quarterly trend
An unaudited analysis is provided by quarter of the Group results and pharmaceutical sales by therapeutic area inSterling for the financial
year 2006.
Income statement 12 months 2006 Q4 2006
£m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Turnover–Pharmaceuticals 20,078 9 8 5,136 8 1
– Consumer Healthcare 3,147 6 5 823 9 3
Total turnover 23,225 9 7 5,959 9 1
Cost of sales (5,010) 6 5 (1,445) 15 11
Selling, general and administrative (7,257) – – (1,934) – (5)
Research and development (3,457) 11 10 (980) 6 1
Other operating income 307 100
Operating profit 7,808 17 14 1,700 19 4
Finance income 287 83
Financecosts (352) (86)
Share of after tax profitsofassociates andjoint ventures 56 13
Profit before taxation 7,799 19 16 1,710 22 6
Taxation (2,301) (505)
Tax rate % 29.5% 29.5%
Profitafter taxation for theperiod 5,498 17 14 1,205 20 5
Profit attributable to minority interests 109 24
Profit attributable to shareholders 5,389 1,181
Basic earnings per share(pence) 95.5p 19 16 21.0p 22 6
Diluted earnings per share(pence) 94.5p 20.8p
GSK Annual Report 2006
172NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Financial record
continued
Q3 2006 Q2 2006 Q1 2006
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
4,876 7 4 5,021 10 11 5,045 10 16
766 4 1 790 5 7 768 6 10
5,642 7 3 5,811 9 11 5,813 10 15
(1,222) 5 3 (1,209) 3 5 (1,134) (2) 1
(1,617) (10) (14) (1,883) 8 12 (1,823) 5 11
(871) 11 8 (853) 20 22 (753) 10 14
91 45 71
2,023 19 13 1,911 13 12 2,174 15 24
64 67 73
(81) (93) (92)
16 12 15
2,022 21 15 1,897 15 14 2,170 17 27
(596) (560) (640)
29.5% 29.5% 29.5%
1,426 19 14 1,337 14 12 1,530 16 25
35 22 28
1,391 1,315 1,502
24.7p 21 16 23.3p 15 14 26.5p 17 26
24.4p 23.0p 26.3p
GSK Annual Report 2006
173Financial record
continued
GSK Annual Report 2006
174
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Pharmaceutical turnover – total Group
Q4 2006 Q3 2006 Q2 2006 Q1 2006
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 1,269 (3) (10) 1,185 (1) (4) 1,232 – 1 1,309 4 9
Seretide/Advair 862 9 1 813 14 10 822 12 13 816 12 18
Flixotide/Flovent 172 7 (1) 145 (1) (4) 164 2 3 178 10 16
Serevent 74 (9) (15) 69 (10) (13) 74 (13) (13) 74 (9) (6)
Flixonase/Flonase 48 (69) (72) 64 (59) (61) 68 (53) (54) 131 (27) (23)
Central Nervous System 915 13 3 913 18 13 918 18 19 896 11 18
Seroxat/Paxil 163 11 3 137 4 (3) 159 5 4 161 (4) (1)
Paxil IR 113 – (7) 103 (8) (13) 122 (1) (3) 110 (11) (10)
Paxil CR 50 50 39 34 61 48 37 33 37 51 15 24
Wellbutrin 212 9 (2) 234 27 22 237 40 42 217 22 33
Wellbutrin IR, SR 25 13 4 26 17 13 27 >100 >100 24 (31) (25)
Wellbutrin XL 187 9 (3) 208 28 23 210 34 36 193 35 47
Imigran/Imitrex 174 2 (7) 180 4 – 175 7 8 182 2 9
Lamictal 257 23 13 257 27 22 245 12 13 237 14 22
Requip 76 62 52 70 71 67 64 85 88 58 83 93
Anti-virals 706 9 1 703 9 6 719 12 13 699 10 16
HIV 360 (5) (11) 363 (6) (9) 393 1 2 399 4 10
Combivir 119 (14) (20) 125 (12) (15) 141 (6) (5) 143 (3) 2
Trizivir 61 (14) (21) 63 (16) (18) 72 (5) (4) 72 (7) (3)
Epivir 43 (24) (31) 46 (25) (29) 53 (25) (22) 60 (12) (9)
Ziagen 28 (12) (18) 28 (12) (15) 29 (19) (19) 32 (9) (3)
Agenerase, Lexiva 34 12 3 32 3 3 32 23 23 33 41 50
Epzicom/Kivexa 69 66 57 63 88 85 58 >100 >100 51 >100 >100
Herpes 242 18 8 242 21 15 245 25 26 236 13 20
Valtrex 212 23 12 215 26 20 214 30 32 204 16 24
Zovirax 30 (9) (12) 27 (6) (13) 31 (3) (6) 32 (6) (3)
Zeffix 42 5 – 42 16 14 40 5 8 38 24 31
Relenza 37 >100 >100 30 – – 17 >100 >100 7 >100 >100
Metabolic 474 34 22 438 16 11 529 32 35 434 26 36
Avandia 324 25 12 323 13 8 408 23 26 344 30 42
Avandamet 68 54 48 44 (21) (23) 64 >100 >100 28 (39) (36)
Avandaryl 14 – – 11 – – 5 – – 12 – –
Bonviva/Boniva 34 >100 >100 27 >100 >100 19 >100 >100 15 – –
Vaccines 527 31 25 412 5 3 387 17 20 366 44 48
Hepatitis 128 19 14 114 (2) (5) 121 3 4 116 18 23
Infanrix, Pediarix 136 29 21 122 6 3 129 38 40 124 54 59
Boostrix 18 73 64 18 64 64 14 >100 >100 10 >100 >100
Cardiovascular and urogenital 421 25 15 406 23 18 383 21 23 426 29 37
Coreg 199 39 25 195 32 27 160 29 28 225 53 67
Levitra 12 30 20 11 22 22 9 (18) (18) 11 – 10
Avodart 61 67 56 57 61 58 51 79 82 47 73 81
Arixtra 21 >100 >100 13 100 86 13 >100 >100 11 >100 >100
Fraxiparine 53 (2) (4) 49 2 – 56 – 2 51 (4) (2)
Anti-bacterials 354 (8) (13) 311 (8) (11) 326 (8) (6) 378 (12) (9)
Augmentin 145 (11) (15) 121 (15) (19) 134 (15) (13) 170 (14) (11)
Zinnat/Ceftin 42 (19) (22) 35 (10) (15) 37 (10) (8) 50 (23) (19)
Oncology and emesis 213 (11) (21) 279 11 6 289 15 17 288 14 23
Zofran 165 (19) (28) 223 8 4 229 11 12 230 13 22
Hycamtin 28 20 12 28 12 8 28 22 22 29 8 16
Other 257 2 (4) 229 (7) (10) 238 (9) (10) 249 (6) (1)
Zantac 55 (5) (14) 51 (11) (16) 61 2 2 65 7 10
Total 5,136 8 1 4,876 7 4 5,021 10 11 5,045 10 16
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.Financial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover – USA
Q4 2006 Q3 2006 Q2 2006 Q1 2006
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 616 (7) (16) 593 (4) (9) 582 (4) (4) 670 4 13
Seretide/Advair 493 11 – 464 17 11 453 13 14 460 11 21
Flixotide/Flovent 79 22 10 64 3 (2) 69 8 8 86 30 41
Serevent 22 (17) (24) 20 (16) (20) 21 (19) (19) 23 (13) (4)
Flixonase/Flonase 17 (85) (87) 39 (70) (72) 34 (68) (70) 94 (27) (22)
Central Nervous System 660 25 13 661 34 28 644 35 37 623 19 30
Seroxat/Paxil 49 72 53 33 62 57 40 40 33 53 (4) 6
Paxil IR 3 – – 2 100 100 8 50 33 6 (55) (45)
Paxil CR 46 59 44 31 60 55 32 38 33 47 10 21
Wellbutrin 208 10 (2) 229 28 22 232 39 41 213 23 33
Wellbutrin IR, SR 22 25 10 22 21 16 24 >100 >100 21 (33) (30)
Wellbutrin XL 186 9 (3) 207 29 23 208 34 36 192 35 48
Imigran/Imitrex 138 12 – 144 15 10 134 19 20 135 – 10
Lamictal 204 39 25 201 43 39 186 31 33 174 33 45
Requip 52 97 79 46 >100 100 41 >100 >100 37 >100 >100
Anti-virals 333 8 (4) 339 6 2 344 11 13 338 3 12
HIV 168 (7) (17) 168 (11) (15) 182 (5) (3) 182 (5) 2
Combivir 56 (15) (24) 57 (15) (20) 63 (11) (10) 62 (16) (9)
Trizivir 32 (16) (27) 34 (19) (21) 38 (5) (5) 37 (13) (5)
Epivir 15 (23) (32) 16 (23) (27) 18 (29) (25) 20 (24) (20)
Ziagen 12 (7) (14) 11 (8) (15) 12 (20) (20) 13 (8) –
Agenerase, Lexiva 19 5 (5) 18 (10) (10) 18 13 13 19 29 36
Epzicom/Kivexa 33 29 18 31 38 29 32 72 78 29 80 93
Herpes 154 30 17 160 35 30 151 39 41 145 17 27
Valtrex 150 28 15 158 36 31 149 39 41 143 17 28
Zovirax 4 >100 >100 2 – – 2 100 100 2 – –
Zeffix 3 33 – 4 – 33 3 – – 3 – –
Relenza – – – – – – – – – – – –
Metabolic 321 45 30 289 15 8 372 37 39 295 26 37
Avandia 246 32 17 242 14 8 315 25 27 265 34 46
Avandamet 32 40 28 13 (64) (67) 37 >100 >100 4 (88) (88)
Avandaryl 14 – – 10 – – 4 – – 12 – –
Bonviva/Boniva 29 >100 >100 24 >100 >100 16 >100 >100 14 – –
Vaccines 162 84 71 130 8 6 90 35 36 83 41 54
Hepatitis 43 38 26 39 – (9) 42 24 27 37 27 42
Infanrix, Pediarix 47 37 24 45 (4) (6) 39 25 22 41 32 46
Boostrix 13 63 63 14 75 75 9 >100 >100 5 – –
Cardiovascular and urogenital 281 44 29 269 37 31 228 36 36 294 53 67
Coreg 198 39 25 193 32 26 158 28 27 224 54 68
Levitra 12 44 33 11 71 57 8 – – 10 – 11
Avodart 36 95 71 37 85 85 30 >100 >100 28 >100 >100
Arixtra 12 >100 100 7 >100 >100 6 50 50 7 >100 >100
Fraxiparine – – – – – – – – – – – –
Anti-bacterials 57 (15) (22) 52 (2) (7) 46 (16) (16) 62 (25) (18)
Augmentin 25 (20) (29) 20 (28) (31) 18 (38) (38) 31 (38) (34)
Zinnat/Ceftin 3 – (25) 3 – 50 2 100 100 4 33 33
Oncology and emesis 162 (10) (22) 223 18 12 226 21 23 225 20 32
Zofran 130 (16) (27) 185 16 11 183 18 19 181 19 30
Hycamtin 18 18 6 17 – (6) 17 21 21 20 6 18
Other 18 5 (5) 18 6 – 22 31 38 25 35 47
Zantac 16 12 (6) 16 7 7 19 46 46 21 54 62
Total 2,610 15 4 2,574 14 9 2,554 18 20 2,615 15 26
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
GSK Annual Report 2006
175
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
GSK Annual Report 2006
176
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Pharmaceutical turnover – Europe
Q4 2006 Q3 2006 Q2 2006 Q1 2006
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 433 1 (1) 399 4 3 441 3 5 424 3 2
Seretide/Advair 293 8 6 271 12 10 293 10 13 276 11 10
Flixotide/Flovent 42 (12) (14) 39 (7) (7) 45 (8) (6) 47 (4) (4)
Serevent 33 (13) (15) 35 (11) (8) 36 (16) (16) 36 (10) (10)
Flixonase/Flonase 11 (15) (15) 10 (29) (29) 17 (11) (11) 13 (7) (7)
Central Nervous System 137 (17) (18) 142 (16) (17) 152 (18) (16) 164 (10) (11)
Seroxat/Paxil 35 (10) (13) 35 (27) (27) 38 (19) (19) 41 (21) (21)
Paxil IR 35 (10) (13) 35 (29) (29) 38 (17) (17) 41 (21) (21)
Paxil CR – – – – – – – – – – – –
Wellbutrin – – – 1 – – – – – 1 – –
Wellbutrin IR, SR – – – 1 – – – – – 1 – –
Wellbutrin XL – – – – – – – – – – – –
Imigran/Imitrex 25 (34) (34) 26 (28) (28) 30 (19) (19) 37 12 12
Lamictal 39 (22) (24) 42 (16) (16) 46 (27) (26) 48 (22) (24)
Requip 21 16 11 21 24 24 20 18 18 19 27 27
Anti-virals 210 11 8 218 14 13 218 7 10 209 14 12
HIV 146 (3) (5) 149 – (2) 163 1 4 163 14 13
Combivir 48 (9) (11) 52 (9) (9) 58 (3) (3) 59 5 5
Trizivir 25 (13) (17) 27 (10) (10) 29 (9) (9) 32 3 3
Epivir 18 (34) (38) 21 (33) (30) 25 (27) (24) 26 (10) (13)
Ziagen 10 (9) (9) 10 (23) (23) 10 (38) (38) 11 (21) (21)
Agenerase, Lexiva 12 18 9 12 33 33 12 50 50 12 71 71
Epzicom/Kivexa 29 100 93 26 >100 >100 23 >100 >100 19 >100 >100
Herpes 36 9 6 36 3 3 36 3 6 36 3 –
Valtrex 27 17 13 28 12 12 28 13 17 26 8 4
Zovirax 9 (10) (10) 8 (20) (20) 8 (20) (20) 10 (9) (9)
Zeffix 6 – – 6 50 50 6 (14) (14) 5 25 25
Relenza 22 >100 >100 24 >100 >100 10 – – 6 – –
Metabolic 69 27 25 64 30 28 61 33 36 58 45 45
Avandia 30 7 3 30 7 7 33 14 14 32 23 23
Avandamet 27 75 69 25 100 92 21 100 >100 19 >100 >100
Avandaryl – – – – – – – – – – – –
Bonviva/Boniva 5 – – 3 >100 >100 3 – – 1 – –
Vaccines 200 20 18 169 6 4 175 16 19 165 46 45
Hepatitis 60 11 11 54 (5) (8) 58 (11) (6) 55 17 15
Infanrix, Pediarix 72 36 31 65 16 16 76 45 49 68 73 70
Boostrix 5 67 67 3 50 50 4 100 100 3 >100 >100
Cardiovascular and urogenital 101 (1) (4) 96 (6) (7) 102 (5) (2) 96 (6) (7)
Coreg – – – – – – – – – – – –
Levitra – – – – – – 1 – – – – –
Avodart 19 27 27 17 21 21 17 14 21 16 42 33
Arixtra 7 >100 >100 6 >100 >100 6 >100 >100 4 100 100
Fraxiparine 44 (4) (4) 44 5 2 47 – 4 44 – (2)
Anti-bacterials 164 (9) (11) 135 (13) (14) 149 (7) (4) 180 (18) (19)
Augmentin 67 (15) (17) 54 (21) (21) 64 (10) (9) 83 (15) (15)
Zinnat/Ceftin 22 (24) (24) 16 (16) (16) 18 (18) (18) 26 (38) (38)
Oncology and emesis 33 (15) (15) 37 (8) (8) 42 – – 41 (5) (5)
Zofran 21 (30) (30) 25 (10) (14) 31 (9) (3) 30 (6) (9)
Hycamtin 8 50 33 10 29 43 9 14 29 7 14 –
Other 80 (7) (7) 61 (18) (20) 64 (20) (20) 58 (30) (28)
Zantac 13 (24) (24) 11 (31) (31) 14 (13) (7) 14 (6) (13)
Total 1,427 1 (1) 1,321 – (1) 1,404 – 2 1,395 1 1
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.Financial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover – International
Q4 2006 Q3 2006 Q2 2006 Q1 2006
£m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £% £m CER % £%
Respiratory 220 – (8) 193 3 (2) 209 10 11 215 4 13
Seretide/Advair 76 1 (6) 78 7 5 76 12 10 80 20 36
Flixotide/Flovent 51 4 (4) 42 – (5) 50 4 6 45 (2) 2
Serevent 19 11 – 14 – (13) 17 6 6 15 – –
Flixonase/Flonase 20 (8) (17) 15 23 15 17 – 6 24 (38) (35)
Central Nervous System 118 (3) (11) 110 – (7) 122 5 4 109 9 14
Seroxat/Paxil 79 (1) (8) 69 7 (4) 81 7 7 67 10 10
Paxil IR 75 – (9) 66 6 (3) 76 5 3 63 7 7
Paxil CR 4 (25) – 3 25 (25) 5 50 >100 4 100 100
Wellbutrin 4 (25) – 4 (20) (20) 5 >100 >100 3 (33) –
Wellbutrin IR, SR 3 (33) – 3 (25) (25) 3 >100 >100 2 (50) –
Wellbutrin XL 1 – – 1 – – 2 100 100 1 – –
Imigran/Imitrex 11 – (8) 10 (15) (23) 11 (23) (15) 10 (9) (9)
Lamictal 14 – – 14 7 (7) 13 (7) (7) 15 8 25
Requip 3 – 50 3 50 50 3 50 50 2 – –
Anti-virals 163 11 4 146 11 6 157 21 21 152 22 31
HIV 46 2 (6) 46 (4) (6) 48 24 14 54 12 32
Combivir 15 (20) (25) 16 (5) (16) 20 6 11 22 25 38
Trizivir 4 – 33 2 (25) (50) 5 33 67 3 (25) (25)
Epivir 10 – (9) 9 (8) (31) 10 (9) (9) 14 9 27
Ziagen 6 (22) (33) 7 – – 7 40 40 8 17 33
Agenerase, Lexiva 3 50 50 2 – – 2 – – 2 – 100
Epzicom/Kivexa 7 >100 >100 6 >100 >100 3 >100 >100 3 – –
Herpes 52 (5) (10) 46 – (12) 58 9 7 55 11 17
Valtrex 35 6 – 29 – (12) 37 16 16 35 22 30
Zovirax 17 (22) (26) 17 – (11) 21 – (5) 20 (5) –
Zeffix 33 3 – 32 13 7 31 11 15 30 27 36
Relenza 15 >100 >100 6 >100 >100 7 >100 >100 1 – –
Metabolic 84 7 (2) 85 10 8 96 15 19 81 17 27
Avandia 48 4 (4) 51 16 13 60 19 28 47 17 31
Avandamet 9 60 80 6 – 20 6 >100 100 5 – 25
Avandaryl – – – 1 – – 1 – – – – –
Bonviva/Boniva – – – – – – – – – – – –
Vaccines 165 10 6 113 2 (1) 122 8 12 118 41 48
Hepatitis 25 8 4 21 6 17 21 10 – 24 10 20
Infanrix, Pediarix 17 (11) (11) 12 – (14) 14 44 56 15 40 50
Boostrix – – – 1 – – 1 100 100 2 >100 100
Cardiovascular and urogenital 39 (9) (11) 41 23 17 53 30 33 36 10 16
Coreg 1 – – 2 100 100 2 100 100 1 (50) (50)
Levitra – – – – – – – – – 1 – –
Avodart 6 67 100 3 100 50 4 100 100 3 – 50
Arixtra 2 – – – – – 1 100 >100 – – –
Fraxiparine 9 11 – 5 (17) (17) 9 – (10) 7 (29) –
Anti-bacterials 133 (3) (10) 124 (5) (9) 131 (5) (5) 136 7 14
Augmentin 53 2 (2) 47 (2) (10) 52 (9) (5) 56 13 19
Zinnat/Ceftin 17 (14) (19) 16 (5) (20) 17 (6) – 20 6 18
Oncology and emesis 18 (20) (28) 19 (13) (17) 21 (9) (5) 22 – 5
Zofran 14 (25) (30) 13 (26) (32) 15 (6) (17) 19 (6) 12
Hycamtin 2 (50) – 1 100 – 2 50 – 2 – 100
Other 159 6 (3) 150 (2) (7) 152 (8) (10) 166 2 8
Zantac 26 (3) (13) 24 (10) (20) 28 (9) (13) 30 (7) –
Total 1,099 3 (5) 981 3 (2) 1,063 6 7 1,035 12 19
Pharmaceutical turnover includes co-promotion income.
GSK Annual Report 2006
177
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
Five year record
A record of financial performance is provided analysed in accordance with current reporting practice. The transition date to IFRS for
GlaxoSmithKline was 1st January 2003. Therefore, the 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 information included in the Fiveyearrecord is in accordance
with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union. For GSK there are no differences between IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union
and full IFRS as published by the International Accounting Standards Board. The 2002 information is in accordance with UKGAAP.
To provide a link between IFRS and UK GAAP, 2003 information is also presented under UK GAAP. The accounting policies used in the
preparation of the UK GAAP information are disclosed in the 2004 Annual Report. Information prepared under IFRS is not directly comparable
with information prepared under UK GAAP.
The Five year record also presents information in accordance with US GAAP.
Turnover by business segment – IFRS 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Pharmaceuticals 20,078 18,661 17,100 18,114
Consumer Healthcare 3,147 2,999 2,886 2,956
23,225 21,660 19,986 21,070
Turnover by business segment – UKGAAP 2003 2002
£m £m
Pharmaceuticals 18,181 17,995
Consumer Healthcare 3,260 3,217
21,441 21,212
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area – IFRS 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Respiratory 4,995 5,054 4,394 4,390
Central nervous system 3,642 3,219 3,462 4,446
Anti-virals 2,827 2,598 2,359 2,345
Metabolic 1,875 1,495 1,251 1,077
Vaccines 1,692 1,389 1,194 1,121
Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,636 1,331 932 770
Anti-bacterials 1,369 1,519 1,547 1,800
Oncology and emesis 1,069 1,016 934 1,000
Other 973 1,040 1,027 1,165
20,078 18,661 17,100 18,114
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area – UKGAAP 2003 2002
£m £m
Respiratory 4,417 3,987
Central nervous system 4,455 4,511
Anti-virals 2,349 2,299
Metabolic 1,079 960
Vaccines 1,123 1,080
Cardiovascular and urogenital 771 661
Anti-bacterials 1,815 2,210
Oncology and emesis 1,001 977
Others 1,171 1,310
18,181 17,995
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic area – IFRS 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
USA 10,353 9,106 8,425 9,410
Europe 5,547 5,537 5,084 5,050
International:
Asia Pacific 1,377 1,324 1,161 1,138
Japan 860 854 769 751
Middle East, Africa 744 746 669 693
Latin America 714 651 581 598
Canada 483 443 411 474
International 4,178 4,018 3,591 3,654
20,078 18,661 17,100 18,114
GSK Annual Report 2006
178
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic area – UKGAAP 2003 2002
£m £m
USA 9,410 9,797
Europe 5,114 4,701
International:
Asia Pacific 1,140 1,100
Japan 753 712
Middle East, Africa 693 652
Latin America 597 606
Canada 474 427
International 3,657 3,497
18,181 17,995
Pharmaceutical turnover in 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 includes co-promotion income.
Consumer healthcare turnover – IFRS 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
OTC medicines 1,496 1,437 1,400 1,472
Oral care 993 943 913 915
Nutritional healthcare 658 619 573 569
3,147 2,999 2,886 2,956
Consumer healthcare turnover – UKGAAP 2003 2002
£m £m
OTC medicines 1,556 1,586
Oral care 1,082 1,052
Nutritional healthcare 622 579
3,260 3,217
Financial results – IFRS 2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,225 21,660 19,986 21,070
Operating profit 7,808 6,874 5,756 6,050
Profit before taxation 7,799 6,732 5,779 5,954
Profitafter taxation 5,498 4,816 4,022 4,308
Basic earnings per share (pence) 95.5p 82.6p 68.1p 72.3p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 94.5p 82.0p 68.0p 72.1p
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,643 5,674 5,736 5,806
Diluted 5,700 5,720 5,748 5,824
Return on capital employed (%) 90.6 99.7 100.2 116.6
Financial results – UKGAAP 2003 2002
£m £m
Turnover 21,441 21,212
Operating profit 6,376 5,569
Profit before taxation 6,313 5,524
Profitafter taxation 4,584 4,060
Basic earnings per share (pence) 77.1p 66.5p
Diluted earnings per share (pence) 76.9p 66.3p
Weighted average number of shares in issue:
Basic 5,806 5,912
Diluted 5,824 5,934
Return on capital employed (%) 120.8 110.6
Return on capital employed is calculated as statutory profit before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed over the year.
GSK Annual Report 2006
179
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP £m £m £m £m £m
Turnover 23,225 21,660 19,986 21,117 21,212
Net income 4,465 3,336 2,732 2,420 413
Basic net income per share (pence) 79.1p 58.8p 47.6p 41.7p 7.0p
Diluted net income per share (pence) 78.4p 58.3p 47.5p 41.6p 7.0p
The information presented in accordance with US GAAP is derived from financial information prepared under IFRS, as adopted for use in the
European Union, for 2003-2006 and from UK GAAP for 2002.
Balance sheet – IFRS
2006 2005 2004 2003
£m £m £m £m
Non-current assets 14,561 14,021 12,164 11,622
Current assets 10,992 13,177 10,780 10,298
Total assets 25,553 27,198 22,944 21,920
Current liabilities (7,265) (9,511) (8,564) (8,314)
Non-current liabilities (8,640) (10,117) (8,443) (8,008)
Total liabilities (15,905) (19,628) (17,007) (16,322)
Net assets 9,648 7,570 5,937 5,598
Equity
Shareholders’ equity 9,386 7,311 5,724 4,917
Minority interests 262 259 213 681
9,648 7,570 5,937 5,598
Balance sheet – UK GAAP
2003 2002
£m £m
Fixed assets 8,575 8,752
Current assets 12,625 10,749
Total assets 21,200 19,501
Current liabilities (8,471) (8,724)
Non-current liabilities (6,925) (6,130)
Total liabilities (15,396) (14,854)
Net assets 5,804 4,647
Equity
Shareholders’ equity 5,059 3,840
Minority interests 745 807
5,804 4,647
Amounts in accordance with US GAAP
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
£m £m £m £m £m
Total assets 54,623 57,218 55,841 56,400 57,671
Net assets 34,914 34,599 34,429 34,861 35,729
Long-term borrowings (4,806) (5,293) (4,374) (3,640) (3,085)
Shareholders’ equity 34,653 34,282 34,042 34,116 34,922
GSK Annual Report 2006
180
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIFinancial record
continued
Number of employees
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
USA 24,726 23,822 23,782 24,036 23,527
Europe 45,758 43,999 44,679 44,559 46,028
International:
Asia Pacific 17,570 15,991 16,109 18,373 17,289
Japan 3,195 3,098 2,965 2,842 2,952
Middle East, Africa 3,204 5,682 5,134 3,400 5,973
Latin America 5,856 5,664 5,603 5,916 6,876
Canada 2,386 2,472 1,747 1,793 1,854
International 32,211 32,907 31,558 32,324 34,944
102,695 100,728 100,019 100,919 104,499
Manufacturing 33,235 31,615 31,143 32,459 35,503
Selling 44,484 44,393 44,646 43,978 43,994
Administration 9,024 9,225 9,193 9,550 10,378
Research and development 15,952 15,495 15,037 14,932 14,624
102,695 100,728 100,019 100,919 104,499
The number of employees is the number of permanent employed staff at the end of the financial period. It excludes those employees who are
employed and managed by GlaxoSmithKline on a contract basis.
Exchange rates
As a guide to holders of ADRs, the following tables set out, for the periods indicated, information on the exchange rate of US dollars
forSterling as reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (‘noon buying rate’).
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002
Average 1.85 1.81 1.84 1.63 1.51
The average rate for the year is calculated as the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month during the year.
Feb Jan Dec Nov Oct Sept
2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 2006
High 1.97 1.98 1.98 1.97 1.91 1.91
Low 1.94 1.93 1.95 1.89 1.85 1.86
The noon buying rate on 23rd February 2007 was £1= US$1.96.
GSK Annual Report 2006
181
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIShareholder information
Share price
2006 2005 2004
£ £ £
At 1st January 14.69 12.22 12.80
High during the year 15.77 15.44 12.99
Low during the year 13.26 11.75 10.42
At 31st December 13.44 14.69 12.22
(Decrease)/Increase (9)% 20% (5)%
The table above sets out the middle market closing prices derived
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List. The company’s
share pricedecreased by9%in 2006 from a price of £14.69 at 1st
January 2006 to £13.44at 31st December 2006. This compares with
anincrease in the FTSE 100 index of11% during the year. The share
price on 23rd February 2007 was £14.50.
Market capitalisation
The market capitalisation, based on shares in public issue, of
GlaxoSmithKline at 31st December 2006 was £77billion. At that date
GSK was thefourthlargest company by market capitalisation on the
FTSE index.
SmithKline Beecham plc Floating Rate Unsecured
Loan Stock 1990/2010
The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may require
SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at par, i.e. £1 for
every £1 of loan stock held, on the first business day of March, June,
September and December. Holders wishing to redeem all or part of
their loan stock should complete the notice on the back of their loan
stock certificate and return it to the registrar, to arrive at least 30 days
before the relevant redemption date.
Taxation
General information concerning the UK and US tax effects of share
ownership is set out in 'Taxation information for shareholders'
on page186.
Dividends
GlaxoSmithKline pays dividends quarterly. Details of the dividends
declared, the amount and the payment dates are given in Note14.
Dividends per share
The table below sets out the dividends per sharein the last five years.
Year pence
2006 48.0
2005 44.0
2004 42.0
2003 41.0
2002 40.0
GSK Annual Report 2006
182
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Dividends per ADS
The table below sets out the dividends per ADSin US dollars in the
last five years, translated into US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
Year US$
2006 1.80
2005 1.57
2004 1.53
2003 1.39
2002 1.24
Dividend calendar
Fourth quarter 2006
Ex-dividend date 14th February 2007
Record date 16th February 2007
Payable 12th April 2007
First quarter 2007
Ex-dividend date 2nd May 2007
Record date 4th May 2007
Payable 12th July 2007
Second quarter 2007
Ex-dividend date 1st August 2007
Record date 3rd August 2007
Payable 11th October 2007
Third quarter 2007
Ex-dividend date 31st October 2007
Record date 2nd November 2007
Payable 10th January 2008
Internet
Information about the company including details of the share price is
available on GSK’s website at www.gsk.com.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part
of this Annual Report.
Investor relations
Investor Relations may be contacted as follows:
UK
980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000
USA
One Franklin Plaza, PO Box 7929, Philadelphia PA 19101
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free
Tel: +1 215 751 4000outside the USAShareholder information
continued
Analysis of shareholdings
Number of % of total % of total Number of
Analysis of shareholdings at 31st December 2006 accounts accounts shares shares
Holding of shares
Up to 1,000 130,906 71 1 46,807,426
1,001 to 5,000 41,712 23 2 89,668,014
5,001 to 100,000 10,210 5 2 148,081,033
100,001 to 1,000,000 1,048 1 6 366,110,174
Over 1,000,000 490 – 89 5,340,935,201
Totals 184,366 100 100 5,991,601,848
Held by
Nominee companies 30,702 17 78 4,643,364,576
Investment and trust companies 57 – 1 58,018,488
Insurance companies 14 – – 162,380
Individuals and other corporate bodies 153,591 83 5 324,318,199
BNY (Nominees) Limited 1 – 12 730,255,527
Held as Treasury shares by GlaxoSmithKline 1 – 4 235,482,678
Totals 184,366 100 100 5,991,601,848
The Bank of New York’s holding held through BNY (Nominees) Limited represents the company’s ADR programme, whereby each ADS represents
two Ordinary Shares of 25p nominal value.
At 23rd February 2007, the number of holders of record of shares in the USA was1,143with holdings of1,508,043shares, and thenumberof
registered holders of the ADRs was39,173with holdings of423,258,574ADRs. Certain of these shares and ADRs were held by brokers or
other nominees. As a result the number of holders of record or registered holders in the USA is not representative of the number of beneficial
holders orofthe residence of beneficial holders.
Control of company
As far as is known to the company, it is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
Thecompany does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in control of the company.
Major shareholders have the same voting rights per share as all other shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings
At 23rd February 2007, the company had received notification of the following interests of3% or more in the shares in issue, excluding
Treasury shares:
•BNY(Nominees) Limited holds846,517,149shares representing14.71%. These shares are held on behalf of holders of ADRs, which
evidence ADSs
•Legal &General Investment Management Limited holds218,457,607shares representing3.80%
•Barclays PLC holds240,119,101shares representing4.17%.
As far as is known to the company, no other person was the owner of3% or more of the shares in issue, excluding Treasury Shares of the company.
Directors and Officers
The interests of the Directors and Officers of the companyin share options,as defined in theCompanies Act 1985, of the company are given
in the Remuneration Report (pages65to82).
Exchange controls and other limitations affecting securityholders
There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends orother
payments to holders of the company’s shares who are non-residents of the UK. There are no limitations relating only to non-residents of the
UK under English law or the company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right tobe a holder of, and tovote in respect of, the
company’s shares.
Documents on display
The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company and other documents referred to in this Annual Report are available for inspection
at the Registered Office of the company.
Publications
In late March 2007 GSK will publish on the website its Corporate Responsibility Report covering performance in areas including community
investment, ethics and integrity, access to medicines, R&Dandenvironment health and safety.
GSK Annual Report 2006
183
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIShareholder information
continued
Nature of trading market Annual General Meeting 2007
The Ordinary Shares of the company were listed on the London Stock The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 23rd May 2007
Exchange on 27th December 2000. The shares were also listed on the Broad Sanctuary, Westminster,
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) (inthe form of American Depositary London SW1P 3EE
Shares ‘ADSs’) from the same date.
The Annual General Meeting is the company's principal forum for
The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, the high and
communication with private shareholders. In addition to the formal
low middle market closing quotations in pence for the shares on the
business there will be a presentation by the Chief Executive Officer on
London Stock Exchange, and the high and low last reported sales
the performance of the Group and its future development. There will
prices in US dollars for the ADSs on theNYSE.
be opportunity for questions to the Board, and the Chairmen of the
Board's committees will take questions on matters relating to
GlaxoSmithKline Pence per share those committees.
High Low
Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service
Quarter ended 31st March 2007* 1493 1344
should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a
February 2007* 1493 1386
corporate representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding in
January 2007 1418 1344
order to attend and vote at the meeting.
December 2006 1360 1326
November 2006 1427 1331 ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy from
October 2006 1511 1400 The Bank of New York which will enable them to attend and vote on
September 2006 1499 1418 the business to be transacted. ADR holders may instruct The Bank of
Quarter ended 31st December 2006 1511 1326 New York as to the way in which the shares represented by their ADRs
Quarter ended 30th September 2006 1540 1418 should be voted by completing and returning the voting card provided
Quarter ended 30th June 2006 1557 1455 by the bank in accordance with the instructions given.
Quarter ended 31st March 2006 1577 1424
Quarter ended 31st December 2005 1544 1395 Financial reporting
Quarter ended 30th September 2005 1442 1308
Financial reporting calendar 2007
Quarter ended 30th June 2005 1377 1201
Quarter ended 31st March 2005 1318 1175 Announcement of 1st Quarter Results April 2007
Year ended 31st December 2004 1299 1042 Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results July 2007
Year ended 31st December 2003 1390 1000
Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results October 2007
Year ended 31st December 2002 1780 1057
Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results February 2008
Publication of Annual Report/Review March 2008
US dollars per ADS
High Low
Results Announcements
Quarter ended 31st March 2007* 58.37 52.66
Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange
February 2007* 58.37 54.71
and are available on its news service. Shortly afterwards, they are
January 2007 55.95 52.66
issued to the media, are made available on the website and sent to
December 2006 53.73 51.93
the USSecurities and Exchange Commission and the NYSE.
November 2006 54.21 51.41
October 2006 56.20 53.21 Financial reports
September 2006 56.76 53.23 The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not
Quarter ended 31st December 2006 56.20 51.41 needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review. These are
Quarter ended 30th September 2006 57.01 53.23 available from the date of publication on the website.
Quarter ended 30th June 2006 58.38 51.48
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders. Shareholders may also
Quarter ended 31st March 2006 54.94 50.15
elect to receive the Annual Report by writing to the company’s
Quarter ended 31st December 2005 53.53 49.16
registrars. Alternatively shareholders may elect to receive notification
Quarter ended 30th September 2005 51.28 46.47
by email of the publication of financial reports by registering on
Quarter ended 30th June 2005 51.40 45.19
www.shareview.co.uk.
Quarter ended 31st March 2005 50.50 44.48
Year ended 31st December 2004 47.50 39.04 Copies of previous financial reports are available on the website.
Year ended 31st December 2003 47.40 32.75 Printed copies can be obtained from the registrar in the UK and from
Year ended 31st December 2002 50.87 32.86 theGSKResponse Center in the USA.
* to23rd February 2007
Queries relating to receipt of duplicate copies of GSK’s publications
should be addressed to the registrars.
GSK Annual Report 2006
184
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNIGSK Annual Report 2006
185
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Shareholder information
continued
Ordinary shares
The company’s shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Registrar
The company’s registrars are:
Lloyds TSB Registrars
The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA
www.shareview.co.uk
Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK
Tel: +44 (0)121 415 7067 outside the UK
The registrars also provide the following services:
•GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan
•GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account
•GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee
•Shareview service
•Shareview dealing service
•Dividend reinvestment plan
Share dealing service
Shareholders may buy or sell shares by internet or telephone through
Shareviewdealing, a share dealing service provided by Lloyds TSB
Registrars. For internet purchases and sales log on to
www.shareview.co.uk/dealing and for telephone purchases and sales
call 0870 850 0852 (inside the UKonly) between 8.00am and 4.30pm,
Monday to Friday.
Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs
The Share Centre Limited
Oxford House, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Bucks HP21 8SZ
Tel: +44 (0)1296 414141
The provision of the details above is not intended to be an invitation
or inducement to engage in an investment activity. Advice on share
dealing should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent
financial adviser.
American Depositary Shares
The company’s shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American
Depositary Shares and these are evidenced by American Depositary
Receipts (ADRs), each one of which represents twoOrdinaryShares.
In general, the NYSE’s rules permit the company to follow UK
corporate governance practices instead of those that apply in the
USA, provided that the company explains any significant variations.
This explanation is provided on the company’s website.
ADR programme administrator
The ADR programme is administered by:
The Bank of New York
Shareholder Relations
PO Box 11258, Church Street Station
New York NY 10286-1258
www.adrbny.com
Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free
Tel: +1 212 815 3700 outside the USA
The administrators also provide Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS
purchase/sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
GSKResponse Center
Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll freeGSK Annual Report 2006
186
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Taxation information for shareholders
Information for shareholders US shareholders
A summary of the main tax consequences for holders of shares and The following is a summary of certain UK taxation and USA federal
ADRs who are citizens or residents of the UK or the USA is set out income tax considerations that may be relevant to a USholder of
below. It is not a complete analysis of all the possible tax consequences shares or ADRs. This summary only applies to a shareholder that holds
of purchase or ownership of these securities. It is intended only as a shares or ADRs as capital assets, is a citizen or resident of the USA or
general guide. Holders are advised to consult their advisers with a domestic corporation or that is otherwise subject to United States
respect to the tax consequences of the purchase and ownership of federal income taxation on a net income basis in respect of the shares
their shares or ADRs, and the consequences under state and local tax or ADRs, and is not resident in the UK for UKtax purposes and does
laws in the USA and the implications of thecurrentUK/US Income not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation that
Tax convention. is carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
This statement is based upon UK and US tax laws and practices at the Taxation of dividends
date of this report. The gross amount of dividends received(without reduction for any UK
withholding tax) is treated as foreign source dividend income for US
US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of the
tax purposes. It is not eligible for the dividend received deduction
underlying shares for the purposes of the current US/UK double
allowed to US corporations. Dividends on ADRs are payable in US
taxation conventions relating to income and gains (Income Tax
dollars; dividends on shares are payable in Sterling. Dividends paid in
Convention), estate and gift taxes (Estate and Gift Tax Convention)
pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US dollar amount
and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the day the dividends
amended (the Code).
are received by the holder. Subject to certain exceptions for short-
term or hedged positions, an individual eligible US holder will be
UK shareholders
subject to US taxation at a maximum rate of 15% in respect of
Taxation of dividends qualified dividends received before2011. Shareholders are advised to
From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one ninth. consult their own Tax Advisers to confirm their eligibility.
As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax on dividend
Taxation of capital gains
income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK resident individual
Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, but
shareholders. Tax credits are, however, no longer repayable to
will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale or other
shareholders with a tax liability of less than the associated tax credit.
disposal of shares or ADRs.
Taxation of capital gains
Estate and gift taxes
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal of
Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is not
shares or ADRs. They may also be entitled to indexation relief and
generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
taper relief on such sales. Indexation relief is calculated on the market
value of shares at 31st March 1982 and on the cost of any subsequent Stamp duty
purchases from the date of such purchase. Indexation relief for UK stamp duty or SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable
individual shareholders ceased on 5th April 1998. Taper relief is on any issue or transfer of shares to the ADR custodian or depository
available to individual shareholders who hold or are deemed to hold at a rate of 1.5% of their price (if issued), the amount of any
shares for at least three years before they are sold. consideration provided (if transferred on sale), or their value (if
transferred for no consideration).
Inheritance tax
Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the transfer No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR. No UK stamp
of shares or ADRs. Tax may be charged on the amount by which the duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided that the
value of the shareholder's estate is reduced as a result of any transfer instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside
by way of gift or other disposal at less than full market value. the UK. Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR would be payable
at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer. Any sale of the
Such a gift or other disposal is subject to both UK inheritance tax and
underlying shares would result in liability to UK stamp duty or, as the
US estate or gift tax. The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would
case may be, SDRT at a rate of 0.5%. There is a minimum charge of
generally provide for tax paid in the USA to be credited against tax
£5 where a stamp duty liability arises.
payable in the UK.
Stamp duty
UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax (SDRT) will, subject to certain
exemptions, be payable on the purchase of shares at a rate of 0.5%
of the purchase price. There is a minimum charge of £5 where a
stamp duty liability arises.GSK Annual Report 2006
187
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Glossary of terms
Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description
Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay the
charging and payment of tax. The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
Advance Corporation Tax (ACT) An advance payment of UK tax that was made when dividends are paid. No direct US equivalent.
American Depositary Receipt (ADR) Receipt evidencing title to an ADS. Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents twoOrdinaryShares.
American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Ordinary Shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange.
Basic earnings per share Basic income per share.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the
principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
The company GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Creditors Accounts payable.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies,
at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Debtors Accounts receivable.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called ‘final salary scheme’.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of
the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share-based employee incentive plans.
Finance lease Capital lease.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of total equity.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements,
bymaking off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as brands, licences, patents, know-how and marketing
rights purchased from outside parties.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Profit Income.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ equity.
Share option Stock option.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus (not distributable).
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Statement of recognised income and expense Statement of comprehensive income.
Stocks Inventories.
Subsidiary undertaking An affiliate in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and/or exercises control.
Treasury share Treasury stock.
Turnover Revenue.GSK Annual Report 2006
188
NOITAMROFNI
ROTSEVNI
Index
Page Page
2006 performance overview 2-3,7 Governance and policy 56-58
Accounting policies 90-93 Improvingaccess to medicines 2-3,18
Accounting presentation 7,90-93 Incentive plans 79-81
Acquisitions and disposals 122-125 Independent Auditors’ report 85
Annual General Meeting 59,184 Intellectual property 23-24,156-163
Annual Remuneration 73 Interest rate risk management 43,127
Assets held for sale 108 Internal control framework 59-60
Associates and joint ventures 100,106-107 Inventories 108
Beingthe best place for the best people to do their Investments in associates and joint ventures 106-107
best work 2-3,17 Investor information 171-187
Board 54,56 Key performance indicators 2-3
Business review 7-52 Legal proceedings 156-164
Cash and cash equivalents 108 Movements in equity 40,119-120
Chairman’s and CEO’s summary 1 Net debt 40,116-117
Combined Code 62,84 New accountingrequirements 94
Commitments 40-41,126 Non-Executive Director terms, conditions and fees 72
Committee reports 60-62,65-82 Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration 74-75
Consolidated balance sheet 87 Notes to the financial statements 90-164
Consolidated cash flow statement 88 Operating profit 98
Consolidated income statement 86 Optimising the performance of key products 2-3,8
Consolidated statement of recognised income and Other intangible assets 39,105-106
expense 89 Other investments 107
Consumer Healthcare 8,12,21,23,30,35 Other non-current assets 107
Contact details 185 Other non-current liabilities 116
Contingent liabilities 40,41,116 Other operating income 98
Corporate Executive Team 55 Other provisions 115
Corporate governance 53-64 Outlook and risk factors 44-47
Corporate responsibilityand community Pensions and other post-employment benefits 81-82,109-115
investment 19-20,57,62,183 Pharmaceutical turnover 31-34,174-177
Critical accounting policies 37-38 Post balance sheet events 126
Delivering the product pipeline for patients 2-3,9-16 Presentation of the financial statements 90
Dialogue with shareholders 58-59 Principal Group companies 153-155
Directors and Senior Management remuneration 72-82 Products and competition 27-30
Directors’ interests 76 Property, plant and equipment 39,103-104
Directors’ interests in contracts 82 Quarterly trend 172-177
Directors’ statements of responsibility 84 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 121-122
Dividends 36,102,182 Reconciliation of profit after tax to operating cash flows 121
Earnings per share 102 Reconciliation to US accounting principles 139-152
Employee costs 99 Regulatory environment 22-25
Employee share schemes 134-138 Related party transactions 120
Exchange rates 6,94 Remuneration policy 66-70
Executive Director terms, conditions and remuneration 71 Remuneration Report 65-82
Finance costs 36,99 Report of the Directors 6-82
Finance income 36,99 Responsibility for environment, health and safety 24-25
Financial instruments and related disclosures 127-134 Risk factors 44-47
Financial position and resources 39-43 Segment information 94-97
Financial record 172-181 Share capital and share premium 118
Financial review 2005 48-52 Share options 76-78,134-138
Financial review 2006 31-38 Shareholder information 182-185
Financial statements 83-164 Taxation 36,100-102
Financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc 165-170 Taxation information for shareholders 186
Financial summary ifc Totalequity 40,119-120
Financial trends and ratios 6 Trade and other payables 39,108-109
Five year record 178-181 Trade and other receivables 39,108
Foreign exchange risk management 43,127 Trademarks 24
Global manufacturing and supply 21 Treasury policies 42-43
Glossary of terms 187 US law and regulation 63-64
Goodwill 104 World economy 26Corporate
Annual
responsibility
report
report
Financial summary Chairman’s and CEO’s letter
Chairman’s and CEO’s summary Corporate responsibility at GSK
Performance overview Access to medicines
Business review Research and innovation
What would
Corporate governance Ethical conduct
Remuneration report you like to know Supply chain
Financial statements Employment
about GSK?
Notes to the financial Environment
statements www.gsk.com Working with communities
Investor information
Corporate
Annual
responsibility
review
review
Chairman’s and CEO’s summary Chairman’s and CEO’s letter
Delivering our product pipeline Q&A
for patients Access to medicines
Optimising the performance of Research and innovation
key products Website
Ethical conduct
Improving access to medicines
Employment
Being the best place for the best
Environment
people to do their best work
Working with communities
Running our business
Managing CR
responsibly About us
Data summary
Performance overview Our products
Business operating review Your health
Summary remuneration report Responsibility
Corporate governance Our work with communities
Summary financial statements Research & development
Shareholder information Investors
Media centre
Careers
Do more, feel better, live longer
Head Office and Registered Office
GlaxoSmithKline plc
980 Great West Road Designed by CGI London.
Brentford, Middlesex TW8 9GS
Printed in the UK by The Midas Press. The paper used in the
United Kingdom
production of this document is made from pulps harvested
Tel: +44 (0)20 8047 5000 from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues and
www.gsk.com forest thinnings. It is elemental chlorine-free.